

Israel said on Sunday it welcomed the UN Security Council
decision to slap new sanctions on archfoe Iran over its
controversial nuclear programme.


"There is no doubt that this resolution is a step up in
international efforts to stop Iran's nuclear programme," Prime
Minister Ehud Olmert said at the weekly cabinet meeting in
Jerusalem.


"We can already say that the previous resolutions... have
considerably influenced not only the international community's
approach, but also Iran's conduct."


The statement came a day after the Security Council imposed new
sanctions on Tehran over its nuclear drive, which the West
suspects is aimed at producing atomic weapons but which Iran says
is for civilian purposes.


Israel, widely considered the Middle East's sole if undeclared
nuclear power, considers Iran its enemy number one following
repeated calls by President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad for the Jewish
state to be wiped off the map.


The Security Council's 15 members on Saturday unanimously adopted
Resolution 1747 broadening UN sanctions imposed on Iran in
December for spurning repeated demands to suspend sensitive
uranium enrichment.


The resolution, agreed after days of behind-the-scenes
bargaining, blocks all Iranian arms exports and freezes the
overseas assets of 28 additional officials and institutions
linked to Iran's nuclear and ballistic missile programmes.


It also restricts financial aid or loans to Tehran, and sets a
fresh 60-day deadline for Iran to comply with UN demands or face
"further appropriate measures."

