

British Prime Minister Tony Blair called Sunday for a new United
Nations Security Council resolution against the Sudanese
government over the crisis in Darfur.


"The issue is, we need to get a new resolution to extend the
sanctions regime against key individuals," he said, in a press
conference held with a survivor from Darfur, without naming any
Sudanese officials.


"The brutal action of the Sudanese government is completely
unacceptable," Blair said, on the sidelines of 50th anniversary
celebrations of the European Union's founding treaty.


Blair said that the strife-torn western Sudanese region, where
some 200,000 people have been killed and at least two million
have been displaced in four years of civil war, had been a major
topic of discussion by the leaders at a working lunch in Berlin.


"The situation in Darfur is intolerable," he said.


Earlier, German Chancellor Angela Merkel also urged her EU
counterparts to back tougher sanctions against Sudan.


"I want to state frankly that we have to consider stronger
sanctions," she said.


The European Union imposed an arms embargo on Khartoum in January
2004.


The conflict in Darfur began in 2003 when an ethnic minority rose
up against the Arab-dominated government in Khartoum, which then
enlisted the Janjaweed militia to help crush the rebellion.


The United States has already said it will seek a United Nations
resolution aimed at forcing Khartoum to let a UN-led peacekeeping
force into Darfur.


Sudanese President Omar al-Beshir, who earlier this month
backtracked on an agreement to let 20,000 UN-led peacekeepers
into the region, accuses the West of wanting to invade his
country and plunder its resources.

