

Nicolas Sarkozy, the right-wing frontrunner in France's
presidential election, stands down as interior minister on Monday
to focus full-time on the race as it enters its final four-week
stretch.


Sarkozy will officially resign his position as number two in the
French government at a ceremony on Monday morning, handing over
to an interim successor -- expected to be Francois Baroin, the
overseas minister -- who will remain in post until the June
legislative elections.


Released from his ministerial duties and his links with the
government of President Jacques Chirac, the 52-year-old Sarkozy
will then leave immediately for the southern city of Avignon, the
first stop in a new phase of his campaign.


Once close, the two men's relations have been badly strained by
Sarkozy's pledge to break with Chirac's record in power if
elected. Chirac waited until the very last moment to give Sarkozy
his official backing last week, as candidate for the ruling Union
for a Popular Movement.


Sarkozy's five years as interior minister, in 2002-2004 and
2005-2007, did more than anything in his career to shape his
profile as a tough-talking man of action, even though his record
remains disputed.


But his position as minister also gave rise to opposition charges
that he was using his powers to advance his campaign.


With less than a month to go until the April 22 first round,
Sarkozy currently leads the race, ahead of the Socialist Segolene
Royal and the centrist Francois Bayrou. Far-right leader Jean-
Marie Le Pen is in fourth place, well ahead of the eight
remaining candidates.


Health Minister Xavier Bertrand, one of Sarkozy's campaign
spokesmen, is also due to leave his post on Monday. He is to be
succeeded by Philippe Bas, junior minister for social security.

