

The only Darfur rebel group to have signed peace with Khartoum
warned on Sunday it was ready to resume fighting against the
government following deadly clashes with the police in the
Sudanese capital.


"The attack by the police and security forces on the residence of
our men was a violation of the ceasefire enshrined in the Abuja
peace agreement which we have signed with the government," Tayeb
Khamis, a spokesman for the Sudan Liberation Movement (SLM), told
AFP.


"We are prepared to resume the war and from Khartoum, if the
government wants to fight," said Khamis, whose group is the only
one of three Darfur rebel groups to have signed a peace deal with
the government in May 2006.


According to Khamis, an armed incident broke out when former SLM
rebels refused to hand over two of the group's members who were
wanted by the police regarding a "traffic problem" earlier in the
week.


The ensuing shootout left 11 people dead -- two policemen, eight
SLM supporters and one woman, he said.


The clash was the first in Khartoum between the SLM and the
government as well as the worst violence to hit the city since
riots sparked by the death of southern rebel leader John Garang
in August 2005 killed over 45 people.


The SLM of Minni Minnawi launched a revolt against the central
government in Sudan's western Darfur region in 2003, but three
years later signed a peace accord with the government.


It is only in the wake of the May 2006 agreement that the SLM
opened an office in Khartoum. As the part of the agreement,
Minnawi was appointed special presidential assistant.


Splinter groups flourished after the peace accord and violence
spiraled.


According to the United Nations, at least 200,000 people have
been killed and two million displaced since the conflict erupted.
Some sources say the death toll is much higher.

