

The remote Himlayan nation of Bhutan got its first two political
parties ahead of elections next year to pave the way from
monarchy to democracy, local media reported.


The formation of the parties comes days after the chief election
official complained about lack of interest in the elections.


On Saturday, national daily newspaper Kuensel reported the
creation of the People's Democratic Party and the Bhutan People
United Party, without elaborating on their platforms.


Both parties are heavily stocked with retired government
officials, businessmen and community leaders. The election
commission has set July as the deadline for registration of
parties for the 2008 polls.


"We expect at least three credible political parties to come
forward," chief election commissioner Dasho Kunzang Wangdi said.


Landlocked Bhutan's transition to democracy began in 2001 when
former king Jigme Singye Wangchuck handed over the powers of
daily government to a council of ministers.


In December, he abdicated the throne in favour of his son, Jigme
Khesar Namgyel Wangchuck, to give the Oxford-educated royal more
exposure to governance in the kingdom of around 600,000 people.


A 34-point draft constitution unveiled in 2004 has been sent to
the Bhutanese people for their views ahead of a nationwide
referendum on the document by late 2007.


The constitution will replace a royal decree of 1953 giving the
monarch absolute power.


The election panel has planned a primary round of balloting in
which the 400,000-strong electorate will vote for political
parties of their choice.


The two parties with the highest number of votes will then field
candidates for the general elections, the winners of which will
go on to form a new National Assembly.

