

European Commission Chief Jose Manuel Barroso renewed his pledge
to Belarus Sunday that the European Union was willing to deepen
ties if the isolated state pursues democratic reforms.


Barroso, speaking at 50th anniversary celebrations of the
founding of the EU, said the bloc sought to foster democracy,
human rights and the rule of law throughout the continent.


"I would like ... to reiterate to the people of Belarus that the
European Union is ready to enter into a full partnership with
Belarus on the basis of these values and towards these goals," he
said.


"Such a partnership would mean that the European Union's
assistance to Belarus could be significantly increased and would
thus help improve the quality of life of Belarusians."


Speaking as hundreds of opposition activists staged a rally in
Minsk against President Alexander Lukashenko, who is often called
Europe's last dictator, Barroso said the EU fully supported a
more open Belarus.


"I am confident that the people of Belarus sees this outstretched
hand as an opportunity to choose a democratic future, and I very
much hope that the government of Belarus will reciprocate,
beginning the reforms their people need and ending their self-
imposed isolation," he said.


Hundreds of police, special forces officers and paratroopers on
Sunday closed off access to Oktyabrskaya Square in central Minsk,
where activists held a four- day rally after Lukashenko's
controversial re-election in 2006.


The EU on Thursday extended its sanctions against Belarus for a
year. The bloc has since 2004 banned certain Belarussian
officials from entering member states due to human rights abuses.


However the main sanctions, which in particular prevent
Lukashenko from entering the EU, were imposed after the
presidential election of March 19, 2006 when he was re-elected
amid accusations of human rights violations and undemocratic
practices.

