

Israelis opposed to Jewish settlers' takeover of a house near the
flashpoint West Bank city of Herbon on Sunday demonstrated
outside the building to call for police to expel them.


Around 20 members of anti-settlement group Peace Now gathered in
front of the three-storey building on a road linking Hebron to
the Jewish settlement of Kiryat Arba after settlers moved in on
Monday saying they had bought it.


The demonstrators called the settlers "a bone in the throat" of
Hebron's Palestinian population, asking the police and troops
surrounding the building "what are you waiting for to expel
them?"


The settlers claim to have bought the house from a Palestinian
for 700,000 dollars but Palestinian Faez Rajabi says he has owned
the house for 15 years and has not sold it to anyone.


Israeli police have said they are checking the validity of the
settlers' documents laying claim to the home before deciding on
whether to evict them.


Around 600 hardline Israeli settlers live in a tightly-guarded
enclave in Hebron, a city in the southern West Bank that is home
to around 170,000 Palestinians.


Following the settlers' takeover of the building, Peace Now
demanded Defence Minister Amir Peretz order their evacuation
before their "provocation unleashes an explosion of violence in
Hebron."


Under a 1997 accord with the Palestinian Authority, Israeli
troops evacuated 80 percent of the city but continue to protect
the settlers living around the Tomb of the Patriarchs, a site
holy to both Jews and Muslims.


Earlier this year, a video posted on the Internet showing a
settler verbally abusing a Palestinian woman as an Israeli
soldier stood calmly by sparked a scandal in Israel over the
mistreatment and abuse of Hebron Palestinians.

