

German Chancellor Angela Merkel said Sunday that the European
Union must maintain a balance in its ties with Washington and
Moscow, amid tensions over US plans to base a missile defence
shield in Europe.


"I firmly believe that close, amicable relations with the United
States of America and a strong NATO are and will remain in
Europe's fundamental interest," said Merkel, who holds the
rotating presidency of the 27-member EU, at celebrations for the
50th anniversary of the bloc.


"A comprehensive strategic partnership with Russia is just as
important to Europe. We both need a strategic partnership with
Russia and the transatlantic alliance. They are most certainly
not mutually exclusive."


She said that Europe had developed a modern understanding of
relations with its neighbours.


"Embedded institutional structures instead of 'them against us'
attitudes, the formation of axes and go-it-alone policies --
Europe must never divide or allow itself to be divided over any
issue," Merkel said.


New tensions have flared in recent months between Moscow and
Washington over US plans to base a missile defense shield in EU
member states Poland and the Czech Republic to thwart potential
attacks, from Iran in particular.


Russia sees the plans as a threat to its own security. Merkel has
called on Warsaw and Prague to consult closely within the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization on the matter and not act
unilaterally.


She has worked hard in the 15 months since entering office to
improve ties with Washington, which soured under her predecessor
Gerhard Schroeder over his vocal opposition to the war in Iraq.

