

An Indian and a Lebanese man kidnapped in volatile southern
Nigeria last week amid disputes over oil revenues have been
released, a diplomatic source said.


Gunmen seized the construction workers from a building site at
Agbarho in Delta State on Friday, police said earlier.


"The circumstances are still not clear but I can confirm that
they have been freed," the diplomat told AFP on condition of
anonymity.


No group has claimed responsibility for the kidnapping, the
latest in a series of such attacks against foreigners mainly
involved in the oil industry.


The men worked for BTP Cetraco, a construction company working on
a road in the oil-rich region.


There was no news on the fate of a Dutch man kidnapped Friday
from Port Harcourt, Nigeria's oil capital, in the southern Rivers
State, despite the deployment of military search parties to look
for him.


The most high-profile of the separatist groups operating in the
region, the Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta,
which has abducted dozens of people in the past, said it was not
involved this time.


Along with the Dutch security worker, two Chinese nationals
abducted on March 17 in the southeastern state of Anambra also
remain missing.


Since the start of this year, about 60 foreigners have been
kidnapped in Nigeria, as many as were abducted during the whole
of 2006.


Reduced output due to unrest cost Nigeria, Africa's largest oil
producer, some 4.4 billion dollars last year, according to
officials.

