

Dark chocolate is good for the arteries as it helps facilitate
blood flow, a new study has found.


Yale University research, presented at the annual convention of
the American College of Cardiology Saturday, indicated that
flavonoids, a group of antioxidant compounds found in fruit and
vegetables, play an important health role.


Studies indicated there is a strong correlation between the
consumption of foods rich in flavonoids such as wine, green tea,
fruit and vegetables and the fight against cardiovascular
disease, the study said.


Cocoa or dark chocolate products are considered one of the most
concentrated sources of flavonoids among commonly consumed foods.


Researchers at Yale Prevention Research Center examined 45 people
from Connecticut state, who were randomly assigned to three
consumption groups.


Their members received daily eight ounces of either cocoa without
sugar, cocoa with sugar, or placebo for six weeks.


Cocoa was considered a successful vehicle to improve endothelial
function in this trial, the sudy said.


Of the 39 subjects who completed the trial, flow mediated
dilation (FMD) improved significantly in the groups consuming
cocoa with no sugar (2.4 percent) and cocoa with sugar (1.5
percent) when compared to placebo (-0.8 percent).


"While the findings from this study do not suggest that people
should start eating more chocolate as part of their daily
routine, it does suggest that we pay more attention to how dark
chocolate and other flavonoid-rich foods might offer
cardiovascular benefits," said Valentine Yanchou Njike, one of
the leading researchers.

