

Mozambique's government came under heavy criticism Sunday as
families buried their dead following an explosion at an arms
depot that killed 100 and injured hundreds more.


The main opposition party and some media accused the government
of negligence over Thursday's incident, when a bombs, mines and
ammunition exploded in the country's largest arms depot.


Debris fell on nearby poor neighbourhoods, triggering fires and
causing panic. Some 492 people have been reported injured.


Explosions have previously occurred at the site.


"We think that the minster of defense is lying when he says that
the explosion was caused by the heat," opposition spokesman
Salvador Namborete said on local radio. "Because of that, we want
him to resign."


The headline in the independent weekly Savana read "Negligence."
The Noticias newspaper, which normally backs the government, said
government officials must explain why they had not removed the
arms after previous incidents.


The government said Friday that it had created an independent
commission that will report back to President Armando Guebuza
within two weeks.


The armoury was built in the 1980s by the Soviet Union during
civil war in the former Portuguese colony in southeast Africa.


One earlier explosion occurred in January, killing one and
injuring about 10. Heat was also blamed for that incident.


An earlier explosion happened in 1985, resulting in 12 deaths and
83 injuries.


As families buried their dead at a cemetery near the site of the
tragedy, residents expressed anger with the government. They also
criticized what they viewed as the slow pace of clearing away the
remaining arms that had not exploded.


"We want the minister to resign, though we know that will be
difficult since he is the president's brother-in-law," said one
man who would identify himself only as Mateus.

