

Australia is close to committing special forces soldiers to
Afghanistan to counter an expected Taliban spring offensive,
Defence Minister Brendan Nelson said Sunday.


Nelson said it was likely that elite Special Air Services (SAS)
troops would be sent to southern Uruzgan province, a former
stronghold of the fundamentalist Taliban regime.


"We believe there is a need. We think that the Taliban will be
mounting a very strong offensive shortly," he told Australian
television.


"We are very close to making a decision about it."


Canberra, which currently has 400 soldiers in the Central Asian
nation, pulled a 200-strong SAS contingent out of Afghanistan in
September.


Nelson said he had spoken Saturday to defence force head Air
Chief Marshal Angus Houston, who was in The Hague to discuss
troop deployments to Afghanistan with Dutch officials, and the
government was close to recommitting SAS troops.


"We believe we have satisfied and settled the command and control
arrangements that are necessary for us to do the job," he said.


"And if we do redeploy, and I think it's likely that we will, it
will be a special forces task group."


Nelson said he would discuss additional deployments with US
Defence Secretary Robert Gates and other defence ministers when
they meet in Canada next month.


"We are in Afghanistan because Afghanistan is the crossroads to a
modern and a free world," Nelson said.


Australia first sent troops to Afghanistan in late 2001 following
the September 11 attacks on the United States.


A 33,000-strong NATO-led International Security Assistance Force
is deployed in the country to tackle a growing insurgency by
supporters of the former Taliban regime and to expand the
influence of the weak central government.

