

American Jason Knutzon fired a superb final round of six-under-
par 66 to claim a one-shot victory over Australian Peter Fowler
in the inaugural Motorola International Bintan on Sunday.


Knutzon, two shots off the lead going into the last day, put on a
masterful performance with six birdies at the Ria Bintan Golf
Club to triumph with a four- day total of 14-under-par 274 and
earn 55,475 dollars in prizemoney.


It was his second victory on the Asian Tour since his maiden
triumph in the Macau Open in 2004.


Fowler, who turns 48 this year, produced a vintage performance,
challenging for the title with an equally impressive 67 on the
holiday isle of Bintan, just off the coast of Singapore, as he
came desperately close to ending his title drought which
stretches back to 1993.


Unho Park of Australia grabbed third place after a 68 to finish
two behind the winner while Chinese Taipei's Lu Wen-teh was
fourth, a further stroke back after a 69.


Overnight leader Rick Gibson of Canada shared fifth place with
Australian Scott Barr on 278.


"The first time is always special. But today was unbelievable. I
played pretty good, putted great and was real steady with no
bogeys. It's just a great feeling to win again," said Knutzon,
who moved up to 15th place on the Asian Tour's UBS Order of
Merit.


"My start of the year hasn't been great, I missed four straight
cuts by one stroke, and I said 'gosh it just feels good to make
the cut' on Friday. I normally make a lot of cuts but to win is a
great feeling."


Fowler, a former Australian Open champion, had a sniff at victory
with a strong performance. But at the end, he came up just short,
lamenting a missed drive on the 16th hole.


"I was happy with my performance, shooting a 67. I thought that
was what I needed to do. But unfortunately, 66 got me. It's one
of those things," said Fowler, whose last triumph was the 1993
BMW International in Germany.

