

At least four people were killed in attacks across Iraq on
Sunday, according to security sources, with the country gripped
by insurgency and sectarian conflict that has killed tens of
thousands.


In the capital, a civilian was shot dead by a sniper downtown
while an Iraqi soldier was killed in a bomb attack targeting his
patrol in the Yarmuk district in western Baghdad, a security
official said.


US-led Iraqi forces were on Saturday locked in clashes with
insurgents in the Yarmuk and Mansur districts as part of an
ongoing marathon security operation to wrest back control of
Baghdad from brutal Shiite-Sunni warfare.


On the eastern side of the Tigris, an Iraqi soldier and two
civilians were wounded during clashes with insurgents, a defence
ministry source said.


North of the capital, a police captain was killed and three other
officers wounded in a roadside bomb attack on the main road south
of Tikrit in a Sunni heartland where opposition to the Shiite-led
government's authority runs high.


The director of a gas plant was shot dead by gunmen outside his
home in Iraq's third largest city of Mosul, another security
officer said.


Meanwhile, a group of Shiite mourners in funeral cortege for
victims killed in a recent bomb attack retaliated by throwing a
bomb inside a Sunni mosque which wounded two people, police said.


The incident happened in the town of Iskandiriyah, 50 kilometres
(31 miles), south of Baghdad, when unknown gunmen opened fire on
the Shiites as they were heading to the holy city of Najaf to
bury victims from an attack on Saturday.


"After these mourners were attacked, they retaliated by throwing
a bomb in the Sunni Abdallah al-Juburi mosque wounding two
people," police officer Salim al- Mamuri from Iskandiriyah told
AFP.


None of the Shiite mourners were wounded in Sunday's shooting
incident.

