

Iran has a "schizophrenic" policy towards Iraq by both supporting
the government and aiding militia extremists, the outgoing US
ambassador to Iraq, Zalmay Khalilzad, said Sunday.


"I believe that Iran has schizophrenic policy or a mixed" policy
towards Iraq, Khalilzad told a pair of Western reporters in an
interview.


Despite Iranian support for the overthrow of former Iraqi
president Saddam Hussein, he said he was convinced Shiite Iran is
playing a role in helping the militias in Iraq, now engulfed by
deadly Shiite-Sunni sectarian conflict.


"On one hand it has welcomed the change and expressed support to
the government in Iraq, but on the other hand there has been
clear evidence to my satisfaction and I look at these things very
carefully... of support for militias, for extremist groups in
terms of weapons, training and money."


Iran is "supportive about the overthrow of Saddam Hussein's
regime, supportive of the democracy project in Iraq because it
believes that (the) majority here being Shiites that is good, but
at the same time its policy has been to cause failure of
coalition and put coalition under pressure."


"It has worked against the interests of majority in the
government in that sense because the coalition now here is at the
request if you like of the government and under the UN mandate,"
Khalilzad said.


Washington regularly accuses Iran of training and funding Shiite
militias in the current sectarian Sunni-Shiite conflict in Iraq
that has killed tens of thousands of people since the US-led
invasion four years ago.

