

Arsenal striker Emmanuel Adebayor and two of his Togolese
international teammates have been kicked out of the national team
following a row over bonus payments, official sources revealed on
Sunday.


National captain Adebayor has been excluded along with striker
Kader Cougbadja, who plays for Jazira in the United Arab
Emirates, and defender Nibombe Dare of Belgian second division
side RAEC Mons.


The Togolese Football Federation (FTF) decision was taken "after
analysis of indisciplined behaviour" shown by the players "before
and after the match Togo- Sierra Leone" on Saturday.


Togo moved top of Group Nine of the 2008 Nations Cup qualifiers
after beating Sierra Leone 3-1 in a game in which Adebayor scored
twice.


But according to sources close to the FTF the ongoing problem
over player bonuses is at the heart of the decision.


FTF manager Zep Kuete told national radio: "These players made
indecent remarks concerning the FTF management."


Adebayor revealed Friday that Togolese internationals, who
threatened to boycott last year's World Cup over a bonus row, are
still waiting to receive their bonus payments.


"The bonus problem is still there. We were given promises but
still nothing has been done," said Adebayor.


"We're still waiting to see the management and it's in their
interest to meet with us as soon as possible. Whatever happens,
we're not going to let this go. If they don't pay up, I don't
know what will happen."


The players are still waiting to be paid roughly a third of the
122,000 euros (162,000 dollars) they were promised for reaching
the World Cup finals.


Togo has a history of bonus disputes between players and football
officials.


Their participation in last year's African Nations Cup came under
threat until mediators found a solution at the last moment, only
for the problems to resurface in Germany.

