

European Union leaders adopted Sunday a 50th anniversary
declaration setting 2009 as the deadline for preparing a new
treaty, following the failure of the bloc's constitution.


The "Berlin Declaration", which marks the signing on March 25,
1957 of the founding Treaty of Rome, was signed in the German
capital by German Chancellor Angela Merkel and the heads of the
European Commission and parliament.


Written in the name of "We, the citizens of the European Union,"
the declaration praises Europe's achievements and sets out future
challenges.


It was inked at the German Historical Museum by Merkel on behalf
of the 27 EU member countries -- the leaders themselves were
present although they did not put pen to paper -- and the text is
not binding for them.


In a speech minutes before, Merkel said that Europe could take
none of its cherished ideals -- peace and freedom, democracy and
the rule of law -- for granted.


"All of it must be strengthened and defended again and again.
Stagnation means slipping behind. It takes decades to build trust
but trust can be disappointed overnight."


On the EU's institutional problems, the text says the nations are
"are united in our aim of placing the European Union on a renewed
common basis before the European Parliament elections in 2009".


The constitution, rejected by French and Dutch voters in
referendums two years ago, is the source of wide discord and was
not mentioned in the text.


The blueprint for Europe's future -- aimed at simplifying the way
the bloc operates as its expands -- has been on the political
backburner since 2005 and no one knows quite how or whether to
resurrect it.


Merkel has been tasked with producing a road map leading out of
the impasse before Germany's term in the EU presidency ends on
June 30.

