

Key dates for Kosovo since the end of the 1998-1999 war between
ethnic Albanian separatists and Belgrade forces.


1999


June 10: NATO ends air strikes against Yugoslavia, then made up
of Serbia and Montenegro. UN Security Council Resolution 1244
anticipates "substantial autonomy" for Kosovo within Yugoslavia
and authorises a NATO-led force (KFOR).


June 12: KFOR troops enter Kosovo. Some 17,000 remain today.


July 2: Former French health minister Bernard Kouchner becomes
the first UN administrator for Kosovo.


July 23: Fourteen Serbs shot dead near central Gacko village.
More than 200,000 non-Albanians, mainly Serbs, leave Kosovo
fearing further attacks by Albanians. Some 80,000 Serbs remain.


2000


Feb 3: Clashes erupt in the divided town of Kosovska Mitrovica:
12 die and dozens are injured in six weeks of violence.


2001


Feb 16: Eleven Serbs die in a bus bombing near northern town of
Podujevo.


May 15: New UN administrator Hans Haekkerup announces a
constitutional framework that anticipates a provisional
government and greater Kosovo autonomy after elections.


Nov 17: Ibrahim Rugova's LDK party wins elections.


2002


March 4: Rugova elected Kosovo president by a multi-ethnic
parliament.


Aug 11-12: KFOR and UN police arrest several former Kosovo
Liberation Army members, sparking demonstrations.


2003


April 12: The Albanian National Army extremist militia blows up a
railway bridge and claims several other attacks in Kosovo,
southern Serbia and Macedonia.


July 16: First war crimes verdict for the KLA members, including
Rustem Mustafa, who is given a 17-year jail term by a Kosovo
court.


Oct 14: First post-war direct meeting between Belgrade and Kosovo
Albanian leaders in Vienna.


2004


March 17: New ethnic clashes between Albanians and Serbs leave 19
dead.


July 29: Serbia calls on the Serb minority in Kosovo to boycott
October 23 parliamentary vote.


2005


March 8: Kosovo prime minister Ramush Haradinaj, a former rebel
commander, resigns after being indicted by the UN war crimes
tribunal over his guerrilla leader activities.


March 15: Rugova escapes unhurt when a bomb explodes in a dustbin
as his car passes.


March 23: Bajram Kosumi elected Kosovo prime minister.


Nov 21: Martti Ahtisaari is appointed as the special UN envoy to
resolve Kosovo's future status.


2006


Jan 21: Kosovo president Ibrahim Rugova dies. He is succeeded by
close ally Fatmir Sejdiu.


Feb 20: Ahtisaari begins the first UN-sponsored talks over the
future of Kosovo in Vienna.


Oct 29: Serbian voters adopt a new constitution confirming the
republic's sovereignty over Kosovo.


2007


Jan 21: Serbia holds general election, with ultra-nationalists
opposing Kosovo's independence winning most votes, but no
majority.


Jan 26: Ahtisaari presents his plan to leaders in Belgrade and
Pristina.


Feb 22: Final round of negotiations between Kosovo and Serbian
leaders in Vienna.


March 26: Ahtisaari's final plan, expected to propose
"internationally- supervised independence" for Kosovo to be
presented to the UN Security Council.

