

Pakistan's cricketers, dumped out of the sport's showpiece World
Cup and rocked by the murder of their coach, arrived in London on
Sunday for a pre-arranged stay before heading home.


The team touched down at London's main Heathrow Airport after
boarding a flight from the Caribbean late on Saturday.


"All of the camp were very, very down," said Dalawar Chaudhry,
who is employed by the team to provide hospitality during their
time in Britain, as he waited for the squad to come through
arrivals.


"They are young Pakistani boys out of their homeland. Although
they have travelled widely, they have never had this type of
experience in their lives."


Without specifying exact details, the British stopover was pre-
arranged before the World Cup and would give the players time for
prayer and reflection before they rejoined their families in
Pakistan, he added.


"I have had a word with all the boys and they have lost someone
very near and dear to them. A father figure has been lost... They
haven't been sleeping well. It's been a very emotional time," he
said.


All team members were interviewed by police in Jamaica and gave
DNA samples and fingerprints before leaving.


Woolmer, a former England international who coached Pakistan from
2004, was found unconscious in his hotel room in Jamaica last
Sunday, a day after the side's shock defeat to minnows Ireland.


He died later in hospital. Police said on Wednesday he had been
strangled and they were treating his death as murder.


Rumours have flown in the past week that the 58-year-old's death
was connected to match-fixing, either because he was about to
expose the extent of the practice in a forthcoming book or
because of sums lost by Ireland's win.

