

The Iranian parliament will consider its response to fresh UN
sanctions imposed over its nuclear programme, the head of its
foreign affairs committee said on Sunday.


"Parliament will certainly react to this resolution after the
(Persian) New Year holiday (which ends April 3) in coordination
with nuclear officials," Allaeddin Boroujerdi told the semi-
official Mehr news agency.


Boroujerdi described the new sanctions resolution passed by the
Security Council on Saturday as "unacceptable and inapplicable".


"The Islamic Republic of Iran will continue on its path within
the framework of the nuclear rules," he said, in an allusion to
the Non-Proliferation Treaty which Iran insists gives it the
right to master the nuclear fuel cycle for peaceful ends.


"We advise the 5+1 group (Britain, China, France, Russia and the
United States plus Germany) to return to the negotiating table as
quickly as possible and without preconditions," he added.


The 5+1 have insisted that Iran must first suspend uranium
enrichment activities before substantive talks can take place.
Iran says any suspension should be a matter for the negotiations
themselves.


During the protracted standoff with the West of the past 18
months, Iran has repeatedly used the conservative-dominated
parliament as the conduit for its response.


When the first UN sanctions were adopted last December, MPs
passed a series of measures requiring the government to toughen
its stance on the nuclear issue.


One required it to resume uranium enrichment, another to suspend
implementation of the additional protocol of the NPT, which
provides for more wide-ranging inspections of nuclear facilities,
and a third even demanded a review of Iran's cooperation with the
UN watchdog.

