

Three new farms reported bird flu outbreaks in Bangladesh Sunday
after thousands of poultry were destroyed last week due to
confirmed cases of the deadly virus, the government said.


On Friday, authorities slaughtered more than 40,000 birds at six
farms, a day after official confirmation of a bird flu outbreak
on the outskirts of Dhaka.


The outbreak was now suspected to have spread to farms in the
north and central parts of the country, government spokesman
Abdul Motalib said.


"Today we have detected bird flu in three more farms in the
northern district of Jamalpur and destroyed some 9,000 birds
there. We will now destroy all the birds within a one-kilometre
(0.6-mile) area of the infected farms," he said.


"We also have reports of mass deaths of chickens in central
Narayanganj and northern Dinajpur districts. We have sent the
samples to laboratories for tests," Motalib said.


Officials confirmed Bangladesh's first case of bird flu late
Thursday after samples from one farm near the capital were sent
to the National Institute of Animal Health in Bangkok and tested
positive for the deadly H5N1 strain of the virus.


The caretaker government has agreed on a string of measures to
prevent the spread of the disease in the densely-populated South
Asian country of 144 million people.


The H5N1 virus has killed at least 169 people since late 2003,
most of them in Asia, according to the World Health Organisation.


Scientists fear the virus could mutate into a form easily spread
among humans, leading to a global pandemic with the potential to
kill millions.


Bangladesh is home to hundreds of thousands of poultry farms
which employ more than a million people.


The country had already banned imports of live birds from more
than 50 countries including neighbouring India and Myanmar, after
outbreaks were detected there.

