

YouTube said Saturday it has offered to "educate" Thai
authorities about how the popular video-sharing service works in
the hope of ending a ban on the site over videos mocking
Thailand's revered king.


The company had spoken with Thai communications minister
Sitthichai Pookaiyaudoom about the ban, which was imposed
Wednesday after a user posted a video deemed here as offensive to
King Bhumibol Adulyadej, YouTube spokeswoman Julie Supan said.


"Minister Sitthichai reported that his government is inflexible
on the blocking of individual objectionable videos, and that the
ministry's technical people have difficulty understanding how to
block individual videos," she said in an email to AFP.


"While we will not take down videos that do not violate our
policies, and will not assist in implementing censorship, we have
offered to educate the Thai ministry about YouTube and how it
works," she said.


"It's up to the Thailand government to decide whether to block
specific videos, but we would rather that than have them block
the entire site," she added.


Four more videos have been posted to the site mocking the king,
but also taking aim at Thailand's strict lese majeste law, which
is rigorously enforced against anyone deemed to have offended the
royal family.


The site, accessed from Bangkok through a foreign server, now has
seven clips mocking the monarch.


Although the original clip has been removed by the user who
created it, the others are similar, often showing pictures of the
king next to images of feet -- seen as deeply offensive in
Thailand.


The ban on YouTube has sparked a fierce debate over freedom of
speech on the Internet, and on Thailand's effort to enforce a law
that dates from the time of absolute monarchy more than 75 years
ago in the era of a modern global media.


Thailand's king, almost universally adored by Thais, is the
world's longest- reigning monarch, and one of the few who is
still protected by tough laws that prohibit any insult against
the royal family.


The ban came a week after Thailand jailed a Swiss man for 10
years for insulting the king by vandalising his portraits during
a drunken spree.

