

More doubt has been cast over East Timor's presidential poll
after a UN- appointed team said Saturday it could not verify the
integrity of the nation's electoral process, two days ahead of
the vote.


The team, set up in East Timor by the United Nations last year,
could not certify the process against tests to ensure the vote is
free and transparent, said Vincent da Cruz, its special
assistant.


"Yes, that is correct," da Cruz told AFP, when asked if the poll
had yet to be certified.


Half the eight candidates standing for election said Friday they
feared many attempts had been made to manipulate the election
process and that there had been violence, intimidation and
threats.


Monday's presidential election will be East Timor's first since
independence in 2002, following a bloody separation from
Indonesia.


At least 32 people have been injured in election-linked unrest
that led police to fire warning shots, the UN said.


UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon on Saturday called on all
parties to make the election free and fair.


"I hope the elections will be free, fair, transparent and
credible. I hope they will be unmarred by violence and
intimidation, and I hope they will lead to results accepted by
all," Ban said in a message broadcast on local radio.


Violence has pulsed through East Timor, one of the world's newest
and poorest countries, since it chose self-determination in a UN-
administered referendum in 1999.


At least 37 people were killed and 150,000 displaced in unrest
last year that led to the dispatch of Australian-led
international peacekeepers.

