

US peace activists said Friday they plan to stage an Easter
"cluster-bomb" hunt outside the White House to demand that
Washington implement a ban on the deadly munitions.


"We are inviting families to search for replicas of these cluster
bombs hidden in the park. It's a way to draw attention to these
bombs which mutilate and kill children," Radia Dawissi of the
peace movement Vineeta told AFP.


"This year, thousands of outstanding youth won't be able to join
President (George W.) Bush as special guests at the White House
Easter Egg Hunt," Vineeta said on its website.


"Because these children had their lives blown apart by insidious
unexploded American-made ordnance, in places like Cambodia,
Vietnam, Laos, Afghanistan, Iraq and Lebanon."


The protest, which is also being promoted by at least 12 other
anti-war groups, will take place at the same time as the
traditional Monday morning Easter egg hunt on the White House
lawn.


A cluster bomb is a container holding dozens to hundreds of
smaller bomblets. Dropped from aircraft or fired by artillery,
they open mid-air and disperse the bomblets over a large area.


Although designed to stop armored assaults, bomblets have fallen
on civilian areas and littered fields long after the end of
hostilities, most recently in Lebanon. Since they do not always
explode on impact, they can continue to kill innocent civilians
years later.


The State Department in February rejected an international call
to abandon the use of cluster bombs. Democratic senators have
also introduced legislation that would bar US use of cluster
bombs in or near civilian areas.

