

US forces launched an air strike in the central city of Diwaniyah
on Saturday as clashes between militiamen and security forces
continued for a second straight day, the military said.


"Iraqi army and coalition forces as part of Operation Black Eagle
used a strategic air strike to defend against illegally armed
militia men using shoulder-fired rocket propelled grenades," the
US military said.


An Iraqi army source said US planes had bombed houses where
suspects were holed up in the city's Al-Jhumuriyah district,
"destroying two them." There was no immediate information of
casualties, he added.


The US military said air support had been called in by the Iraqi
army after "positive identification of the militiamen."


The Iraqi military source said clashes were pitting Iraqi and US
forces against armed men in Diwaniyah's Salim Street and southern
areas of the city including the Nahda and Wahda districts.


A curfew continued in Diwaniyah for a second day and hospitals
were calling in doctors to report for duty, the Iraqi army source
added.


US-backed Iraqi forces swept through the city on Friday,
arresting nearly 30 militants and killing three fighters as part
of the crackdown aimed at reining in Shiite militiamen who often
also clash among themselves.


The military said the operation was intended to disrupt militia
activity and return control of the city south of Baghdad to the
government.


Over the past year, Diwaniyah has seen repeated clashes between
the security forces and Shiite militias. Last August, nearly two
dozen Iraqi soldiers and dozens of militiamen were killed in the
deadliest bout of fighting.


The city is engulfed in bitter political rivalry as militiamen
loyal to radical cleric Moqtada al-Sadr clash with those linked
to the Supreme Council of Islamic Revolution in Iraq (SCIRI), a
powerful Shiite political bloc.

