

Authorities in the Democratic Republic of Congo on Friday
searched the home of an ally of former vice president Jean-Pierre
Bemba, taking what they said was state property, officials said.


Workers at the residence accused police and military officers of
making off with money and personal goods belonging to Jose
Makila, the governor of the Equateur province in northwest DRC,
including a radio and three mobile phones. Three vehicles were
also taken, they said.


Four employees at the residence, including guards and drivers,
were detained, according to workers.


An AFP reporter visited the Kinshasa residence, which appeared to
have been heavily rummaged through.


The police director of intelligence, Raus Chalwe, said the search
was "a normal operation to recuperate state vehicles." He said
Makila, like other former ministers, should have returned them
long ago.


Chalwe said an investigation had been opened to ensure the
officers acted properly.


"If the police officers in charge of that operation were out of
control, there will be severe sanctions," he said.


Makila is a former public works minister and a member of Bemba's
Movement for the Liberation of Congo.


Supporters of Bemba, a former rebel leader and failed
presidential candidate, clashed with the military last month in
Kinshasa, resulting in between 200 and 500 deaths, according to
diplomatic and United Nations sources.


Bemba has been holed up in the South African embassy since the
clashes.


"Those people entered my house by forcing open the door under the
pretext that they were looking for state vehicles," Makila, who
was not at the residence, told AFP by telephone. "But when you
search for vehicles, you're not going to rummage through people's
bedrooms."


DRC authorities have been locating state vehicles over the last
week that had been used by former ministers. More than 70
vehicles have been seized, said Pierre Lumbi, minister of public
works.

