

A rare painting by prominent Chinese artist Xu Beihong of an
anti-Japanese street play was to go under the hammer in Hong Kong
on Saturday.


Auctioneers Sotheby's said the 1939 oil painting, "Put Down Your
Whip", is expected to fetch at least 30 million Hong Kong dollars
(3.8 million US) and it hopes the picture will get the highest
price ever paid for a modern Chinese oil painting sold at
auction.


"This painting is of historic value because Xu had never painted
another picture of an anti-Japanese theme," a Sotheby's
spokeswoman said.


"We actually hope that this painting will go into the hands of a
museum so the public members can have a chance to appreciate it
too," she added.


Xu's work is the highlight of the auction house's Contemporary
Chinese Art sale that will offer 180 lots of Chinese art pieces,
estimated to sell for 130-150 million dollars.


The last record that Xu's paintings made was in November 2006
when his work "Slave and Lion" was sold at a Christie's auction
house for 53.9 million Hong Kong dollars.


The patriotic Xu, who was renowned for his horse paintings, was
inspired to paint "Put Down Your Whip" after watching a street
play in Singapore about a father and his daughter in wartime
exile due to the Japanese invasion.


The life-size female character in the painting was Xu's actress
friend Wang Ying.


Sotheby's said the picture had been exhibited several times when
Xu was still alive, but it was last seen in public in 1954 -- a
year after Xu died -- since when it has been passed between
collectors.


The auction house said the painting is being sold by an Asian
collector whom it declined to name.

