

Australia and England have enjoyed many memorable one-day
encounters ever since they played the first one-day international
of them all in 1971.


Although Australia have the edge in winning 51 of their 92 one-
dayers against their oldest rivals compared to England's 37, with
two ties and two no-results, both sides have enjoyed some
memorable results during their encounters.


With the old rivals set to play a crucial World Cup Super Eights
match here on Sunday, AFP Sport presents six of their best
clashes:


1975: World Cup semi-final, Headingley: Australia won by 4 wkts


Gary Gilmour's astonishing burst of left-arm swing bowling saw
him take six wickets for 14 runs in 12 overs as England were
bowled out for 93. Chris Old, on his home ground, then inspired
an England revival as Australia in turn slumped to 39 for six
before Gilmour's unbeaten 28 helped see his side into the first
World Cup final.


1986/87: Sydney: England won by 3 wkts


Australia looked to have done enough with England still needing
18 off the last over. But Allan Lamb, who finished on 77 not out,
struck left-arm quick Bruce Reid for 2, 4, 6, 2 and 4 to seal
victory with a ball to spare on a tour where England retained the
Ashes, won the one-day Perth Challenge and the limited overs
World Series.


1987/88: World Cup final, Calcutta: Australia won by 7 runs


England, at 135 for two chasing 254 to win, were on course for
victory when Mike Gatting reversed-swept the occasional left-arm
spin of opposing captain Allan Border and was caught by wicket-
keeper Greg Dyer. England's innings then suffered another blow
when Lamb was seventh man out, bowled by the medium-pace of Steve
Waugh, best known as a batsman, and Australia closed out the
match.


Victory gave Australia the first of their three World Cup titles;
England have still to win one.


2003: World Cup, Port Elizabeth: Australia won by 2 wkts


England were twice poised for a win after reducing Australia to
48 for four and 135 for eight. But all-rounder Andy Bichel saw
Australia home with a vital 33 not out batting at No 10, having
taken a superb seven for 20 in England's 204 for eight. Michael
Bevan, the best 'finisher' of a one-day innings in his
generation, was unbeaten on 74 as Australia won a record 12th
successive one-day international while England's World Cup hopes
crumbled.


2005: NatWest Series Final, Lord's: Match tied


Fast bowlers Steve Harmison and Andrew Flintoff took three
wickets each as England bowled out Australia for 196, Mike
Hussey's unbeaten 62 the only score above 29. However, England in
reply collapsed to 33 for five before a stand of 116 between Paul
Collingwood and Geraint Jones revived the innings. England needed
10 off the final over from Glenn McGrath. A misfield by Brett Lee
at third man off the last ball allowed Ashley Giles and Harmison
to run two leg- byes and tie the scores.


2006/07: CB Series 1st Final, Melbourne: England won by 4 wkts


Paul Collingwood's brilliant unbeaten 120 saw England to victory
with three balls to spare after a wretched start to the series
had come hot on the heels of their 5-0 Ashes thrashing. England
collapsed to 15 for three before Ian Bell (75) and Durham all-
rounder Collingwood swung the game back their side's way with a
fourth-wicket stand of 133. England would go on to win the
Commonwealth Bank Series 2-0, a result that gave them and the
rest of the world some hope of knocking champions Australia off
their World Cup perch.

