

East Timor was calm Saturday as thousands of United Nations and
local police, backed up by international peacekeeping troops,
prepared to secure Monday's presidential election after clashes
last week between supporters of rival candidates.


"Everything is calm and peaceful. There have been no major
incidents," United Nations police spokeswoman Monica Rodrigues
said.


At least 32 people were injured in election-related clashes
Wednesday in and around Dili, although most of the two-week
presidential campaign was peaceful, the UN said.


Eight candidates, including Prime Minister Jose Ramos-Horta, are
vying to replace President Xanana Gusmao, who is not seeking re-
election.


There would be a tightening of security in the lead-up to the
vote, Finn Reske- Nielsen, deputy head of the UN mission, told
reporters on Thursday.


Security is "a primary concern," he said.


Atul Khare, who heads the UN mission, said the 1,655
international police and about 2,800 local officers are supported
by close to 1,000 troops from an Australian-led international
peacekeeping force.


UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon on Saturday called on all
parties in East Timor to make the country's first presidential
election since independence in 2002 a free and fair one.


"I hope they will be unmarred by violence and intimidation, and I
hope they will lead to results accepted by all," Ban said in a
message broadcast on local radio.


"The eyes of the world are upon you. I call on all candidates and
their supporters to accept the results in a peaceful manner."


The Australian-led force was dispatched after unrest in May last
year that killed at least 37 people and forced more than 150,000
to flee their homes. About 37,000 people are still displaced in
Dili, the capital.


East Timor, formally known as Timor-Leste, gained independence
after a period of UN stewardship that followed 24 years of
occupation by neighbouring Indonesia.

