

A US federal appeals court on Friday blocked a judge's decision
to bar Internet telephony firm Vonage from signing up new
customers as punishment for violating patents of rival Verizon.


Vonage won an emergency stay of US District Court Judge Claude
Hilton's ruling that the company be barred from taking on new
customers as of April 12.


The stay enables Vonage to continue to sign up new customers
until an appellate court decides on the company's request that
the stay be made permanent.


"We're thrilled," Vonage senior vice president of communications
Brooke Schulz told AFP.


"We are really looking forward to presenting our arguments in
court."


Hilton's ruling would have stopped Vonage from getting new
customers but let it keep its approximately 2.2 million current
subscribers while it appealed a jury's verdict that the start-up
uses technology belonging to Verizon.


"Judge Hilton exercised the court's equitable discretion to craft
a middle path that allows Vonage to continue serving its existing
customers while protecting Verizon's patents from increased
infringement during the appeal process," Verizon said in a
written statement.


"We expect Judge Hilton to be affirmed on appeal."


Verizon filed suit against the New Jersey-based, cut-rate Voice
over Internet Protocol (VoIP) company in US District Court for
the Virginia Eastern District in 2006.


Verizon, which has its headquarters in New York City, accused
Vonage of infringing on five of its patents involving online
telephony.


A two-week trial ended on March 8 with jurors finding that Vonage
had infringed on three Verizon's patents.


The jury ordered the start-up to pay Verizon 58 million dollars
for its transgressions and to pay Verizon royalties amounting to
5.5 percent of revenues if it continues using the technology.


Vonage depicted the verdict as a victory, emphasizing that
Verizon had succeeded with only three of its claims and that the
damages awarded were much less than the 197 million dollars
Verizon asked for in court.


Vonage has appealed the award, arguing that Verizon is due no
money in the case. Schultz said Vonage expected to get the
findings against it reversed on appeal.


Permanently stopping Hilton's injunction and getting the verdict
overturned on appeal were seen by analysts as vital to Vonage's
survival.


Losing the legal battle would leave Vonage facing slow death if
it doesn't make a quick deal with Verizon regarding the disputed
technology, analysts said.


"The question on everyone's mind is will this be the beginning of
the end for Vonage?" said telecom industry analyst Jeff Kagan.


"This is not an industry issue. This is not a VoIP issue. This is
a Vonage issue. Whether or not Vonage gets through this, the VoIP
revolution will continue."

