

Briton Lewis Hamilton continued to demonstrate his rich potential
by topping the times in Saturday morning's final free practice
session for Sunday's Malaysian Grand Prix.


The 22-year-old McLaren Mercedes-Benz driver rose to the top
during the hour- long session and clocked the fastest lap time in
one minute and 34.811 seconds as the teams completed their
preparations ahead of the afternoon qualifying session.


Hamilton was one-tenth of a second faster than Brazilian Felipe
Massa in his Ferrari and half a second quicker than his McLaren
team-mate and defending double world champion Spaniard Fernando
Alonso.


Hamilton, the first driver of Afro-Caribbean descent, finished
third on his debut in last month's Australian Grand Prix,
stirring a worldwide reaction.


Poland's Robert Kubica, in a BMW Sauber, was fourth quickest
ahead of Finn Kimi Raikkonen in the second Ferrari and Nico
Rosberg, the German-born son of the original flying Finn Keke
Rosberg, in a Williams Toyota.


The two Hondas of Briton Jenson Honda and Brazilian Rubens
Barrichello, of whom so much was expected this year, continued to
struggle badly and wound up 17th and 19th respectively.


The two Renaults driven by Italian Giancarlo Fisichella and Finn
Keikki Kovalainen also failed to make much impression on the
session.


They were 13th and 18th respectively on a sultry morning when the
air temperature was 34 degrees Celsius (93 degrees Fahrenheit),
the track temperature was 46 degrees and the humidity was 53
percent.

