

Indonesia's human death toll from bird flu has risen to 74 and it
must intensify the fight against the virus after a spate of
fatalities, the country's government said Friday.


There have been 74 deaths from 94 confirmed human infections, a
statement from the National Committee for Avian Influenza Control
and Pandemic Preparedness said, pushing up each number by one,
but providing no further details about the updated tolls.


"Much has been done in the battle against the deadly virus, but
the war is far from over and we must re-double our efforts this
year," Bayu Krisnamurthi, the committee's chief executive, said.


Indonesia has surpassed Vietnam as the country with the highest
number of human infections, the statement said, adding its
fatality rate was nearly 79 percent.


"We had hoped that this day would never come," Krisnamurthi said.


"The government, along with UN agencies, NGOs and other groups
have been working throughout the country to try to stop the
spread of the virus and stop it from infecting people, but it is
an enormous task," he said.


Indonesia's national bird flu centre said earlier Friday that the
disease had killed a teenage girl in the capital, Jakarta,
raising the death toll to 73 before the latest update. At least
16 people have died from the virus this year.


Scientists fear the deadly H5N1 strain of bird flu could mutate
into a form that spreads easily among humans, leading to a global
flu pandemic with the potential to kill millions of people.


But a panel of experts from the committee judged the virus had
yet to mutate, the statement said.


The virus has been detected in other animals, including cats and
dogs, but there was no evidence they were able to transmit it,
the statement added.


Most human infections have so far been blamed on contact with
sick birds. The government has banned the popular practice of
keeping poultry in backyards in Jakarta to try and check the
disease's spread.


Plans were underway to work on the details of a national pandemic
response, Krisnamurthi said, and to boost community awareness.


The World Health Organisation says the deadly H5N1 strain of bird
flu has infected 288 people and killed 170 of them, mostly in
Southeast Asia, since 2003.

