

Passivity and lack of results shown by Bosnian Serb authorities
in bringing war crimes suspects to justice are unacceptable, a
senior diplomat said Friday.


"It is unacceptable that victims may still be confronted with
perpetrators in their daily life," Raffi Gregorian, the deputy of
the international community's High Representative in Bosnia said
Friday in a press release.


Bosnian and Bosnian Serb authorities "know only too well that
there are people who were involved in the Srebrenica genocide who
are still serving in police and other... government positions,"
Gregorian said following a visit to the eastern town.


Since its 1992-1995 war, Bosnia has been made up of highly
independent Serb-run Republika Srpska and the Muslim-Croat
Federation.


In the final months of the conflict, Srebrenica was the scene of
the worst atrocity in Europe since World War II, when Serb forces
overran the then UN- protected enclave, summarily killing 8,000
Muslim men.


Srebrenica has remained in the Serb-controlled part of the
country.


"Until the RS police start investigating their own operatives,
claims that the RS institutions have reformed will not hold
water," Gregorian warned.


Under strong international pressure the Bosnian Serb government
admitted three years ago that Serb forces were responsible for
the slaughter. The government then identified in an official
report nearly 900 people suspected of involvement in the massacre
and who are still holding official positions.


However, no action has since been taken against those
individuals.


Following confirmation by the International Court of Justice in
February that the 1995 massacre amounted to genocide the town's
Muslims called for separating Srebrenica from the Serb-run
entity.

