

Robin Soderling boosted Sweden's semi-final hopes in the Davis
Cup World Group after dominating Argentina's Juan Martin del
Potro 7-6 (7/4), 7-6 (7/4), 6-4 here Friday.


Ahead of Saturday's possible doubles decider Sweden now lead last
year's finalists 2-0 after Thomas Johansson beat David Nalbandian
6-7 (3/7), 7-6 (7/2), 6-2, 7-6 (7/0) to give Sweden the early
lead Friday.


The 32-year-old Johansson required nearly four hours to beat
Nalbandian, seven years his junior, in a match where the first
two sets were hotly-contested.


Nalbandian dominated the first set tiebreak after they traded
breaks during the set, using his powerful service to good effect.
However Johansson managed to level the tie at a set apiece mainly
thanks to him finding his own service form.


Johansson rained down a total of 33 aces to Nalbandian's 18, and
thrashed the Argentinian in the fourth set tiebreak 7-0.


Soderling had an easier path to tread than his compatriot, taking
just two and a half hours to claim victory over his teenaged
rival.


The first two sets were almost carbon copies. Both were well-
balanced and punctuated with an almost equal amount of unforced
errors, and both were won 7/4 by Soderling in the tie break.


However the third set saw the 22-year-old Soderling move up a
gear, sending the ball from side to side and giving 18-year-old
Del Potro plenty of running to do.


The Argentine, a replacement for Guillermo Canas, battled hard to
save two match points but was eventually outplayed by the more
experienced Swede.


On Saturday Sweden have a chance to book their semi-final place
even before Sunday's concluding two rubbers when Jonas Bjorkman
and Robert Lindstedt face David Nalbandian and Sebastian Prieto
in the doubles.

