

Thailand on Saturday started daily tests of 79 tsunami warning
towers along its southern Andaman coast, which was ravaged by
deadly waves two years ago, officials said.


The test Saturday was the first time that officials have checked
the towers' loudspeakers since the system was linked by satellite
to a US-funded deep-sea warning buoy deployed in December, the
National Disaster Warning Centre said.


In the event of a tsunami, the buoy would detect the waves and
send a warning signal through the satellite to emergency
officials and to the coastal towers.


During the test, the towers will broadcast a two-second knocking
sound every morning at 9:00 am around the coastline in six
provinces.


The sound will be heard within a radius of 70 metres (230 feet),
and the tests will continue indefinitely to make sure the system
is always working, the centre said.


"We are starting to test the speakers from today to make sure
systems at the towers work properly," said Thitipat Bejraburninn,
the centre's chief of policy and planning.


"On July 25, we will arrange a full-scale system test and
evacuation plans in the six provinces," he told AFP.


Some 5,400 people were killed in Thailand, roughly half of them
foreign holidaymakers, when a tsunami ripped across the Indian
Ocean in December 2004.


The disaster killed 220,000 people around the region.


The test came just five days after another tsunami struck the
western Solomon Islands in the Pacific Ocean, killing 34 people
and displacing 5,500 others.


Thitipat said another 48 tsunami warning towers are under
construction along the Gulf of Thailand, while an additional 144
towers are planned for provinces in the northern and northeastern
regions to warn of floods or other natural disasters.

