

China will formally ban the trade in human organs from May 1,
state media reported, amid ongoing allegations that the nation's
military is involved in harvesting organs from executed
prisoners.


The regulation, issued by the State Council, or China's cabinet,
does not apply to transplants of human tissue such as cells,
corneas or bone marrow, the Xinhua news agency reported on
Friday.


"This is the first regulation of its kind introduced by the
central government, and it is a milestone in the country's organ
transplant history," vice health minister Huang Jiefu was quoted
as saying.


China in July last year issued rules on the buying and selling of
human organs for transplant.


The new regulation "stipulates that human organ transplants
should respect the principle of voluntary and free donation and
makes it a crime to harvest organs without the owner's permission
or against his will," Xinhua said.


The law, which forbids the use of organs from minors, aims to
"safeguard citizens' lawful rights" and ensure the quality of
transplant surgery, it added.


The regulation sets out strict guidelines for hospitals allowed
to perform organ transplants.


Doctors found to be involved in the organ trade will have their
licences revoked, face fines and their clinics will be forbidden
from performing transplant surgery for at least three years.


Officials convicted of trading in human organs will be sacked and
kicked out of government, Xinhua said.


International human rights groups have long accused China of
harvesting organs from executed prisoners for transplant without
the consent of the prisoner or his or her family.


Hospitals have also been regularly accused of secretly taking
organs from road accident victims and other dead patients without
telling family members.


The health ministry has denied those charges, saying most organs
are voluntarily donated by ordinary citizens and executed
criminals who consented to donations before their deaths.

