

Texas legislators have made it easier for blind hunters to
capture their prey.


A bill passed by the state house Thursday will allow legally
blind hunters to use laser sight devices when hunting with a
sighted companion.


Scores of blind hunters already prowl the Texas backcountry
outfitted with scopes that let their friends help them aim.


"It shocks a lot of people," said Chase Bearden, who does public
outreach for the Coalition of Texans with Disabilities and
testified in favor of the bill.


"It's not just a sighted sport -- you're using all your senses."


Bearden said he knows of about 30 or 40 groups of legally blind
hunters just in the Austin, Texas area.


Some of them are life-long hunters whose eyesight deteriorated as
they got older but can still see shapes and movements. Others are
completely blind but rely on their other senses to help them
track deer, turkey and other prey.


Once they have the prey lined up a friend will lean over their
shoulder, look through a custom scope and help them refine their
aim.


But those scopes don't make for a very clean shot or a
particularly satisfying experience, Bearden said in a telephone
interview.


"By using the laser sight, the sighted hunter doesn't have to
lean over your shoulder," he said, explaining that with the
laser, the sighted companion can see where the gun is aimed and
quietly advise the blind hunter to move it in the correct
direction.


"It allows the blind hunter to do more. It's safer and it's a
cleaner shot."


Hunting with any type of light was previously forbidden in Texas
but there have never been any restrictions on giving hunting
licenses to the blind.


The new bill will allow legally blind hunters to use laser sights
when accompanied by a licensed and sighted hunter over the age of
13. It must still pass the state senate.

