

A federal judge Friday ordered that former CIA operative Luis
Posada Carriles, wanted by Cuba and Venezuela for the deadly
downing of a Cuban jet, be released pending a hearing on
immigration fraud charges.


The ruling, made by a federal judge in Texas, does not
necessarily mean Posada Carriles, 79, will leave jail immediately
as migration officials have a deportation order for him and they
could order him arrested.


Posada Carriles is accused of masterminding the downing of a
Cuban jet off Barbados in 1976 in which 73 people were killed. He
was detained in Venezuela in 1976, but fled prison in 1985.


He was later detained by immigration officials in May 2005 for
entering the United States illegally.


US officials refuse to release him to Venezuela, where he holds
citizenship, or Cuba, where he was born, saying he might be
tortured. But they have also refused to free him, calling him a
threat to national security.


He was also sentenced to eight years' jail in Panama in a bomb
plot to assassinate Cuban leader Fidel Castro during an Ibero-
American summit there in 2000, but was pardoned by outgoing
president Mireya Moscoso.


He made his way to the United States, where he was eventually
arrested in May 2005 after he requested asylum and later withdrew
the request.


Cuban and Venezuelan authorities accuse the US government of
harboring a known terrorist.


Declassified US documents show that Posada Carriles had worked
for the CIA at least from 1965 until June 1976, and he reportedly
helped the US government ferry supplies to the so-called Contra
rebels, who waged a bloody campaign to topple the socialist
Sandinistas in Nicaragua.

