

The United States offered to mount aggressive air patrols over
Revolutionary Guards bases during Iran's stand-off with Britain
but was rebuffed by London, The Guardian newspaper reported
Saturday.


Citing unnamed diplomatic sources, the daily said that Pentagon
officials offered a series of military options, but Britain told
them to keep out of the affair and instead tone down armed forces
activity in the Gulf.


One of the options involved combat aircraft patrolling over
Iranian bases to show how serious the incident was, the newspaper
said in a front page story.


On March 20, three days before the 15 British marines were seized
at gunpoint in the Gulf, a second US aircraft carrier group
arrived in the region.


At London's request, the two carrier groups, totalling 40 ships
plus aircraft, changed their exercises to make them appear less
confrontational, the newspaper said.


Britain also asked the United States to ensure it kept the
rhetoric low-key, The Guardian said.


It reported that a consensus was emerging among British, Iraqi
and Iranian officials as to what happened when the Royal Navy
sailors and Royal Marines were seized -- namely that it was not
something planned by Tehran.


London maintains they were mounting a routine anti-smuggling
patrol in Iraqi waters, while Tehran insists they trespassed into
Iranian waters.


"My best guess is that this was a local incident which became an
international incident," a British source closely involved in the
stand-off told the newspaper.


A senior Iranian source close to the Revolutionary Guards told
The Guardian: "If this had been between Iranian and American
soldiers it could have been the beginning of an accidental war."


The source claimed that British forces had illegally entered
Iranian waters three times in three months leading up to the
capture, which was decided upon by a regional commander.

