

World Bank president Paul Wolfowitz said the aid agency will
reduce or drop some activities to focus on areas where it can be
more effective, in an interview with a British newspaper
published Saturday.


Wolfowitz told the Financial Times that the bank's chief
economist Francois Bourguignon was carrying out a review and is
charged with drawing up the future strategy of the world's
biggest aid agency.


Many bank officials want to refocus efforts on supporting
economic growth rather than education, health and other social
projects, the business daily said.


Wolfowitz said the time was right to ask "what have we learned"
since the bank's present strategy was laid down by his
predecessor James Wolfensohn in 2001.


"What interventions are most effective for promoting
development?" he asked. "Where can the bank be most effective?


"The question is -- what is our comparative advantage and where
can we contribute?"


Downplaying the prospect of radical change, Wolfowitz said: "I do
not think there is urgent change of direction needed."


However, he added: "I do think some greater clarity about trade-
offs is in order.


"The strategy is going to have to say these are the things that
it is important to do more of -- which inevitably means there are
some things we have to stop doing or do less of."


Wolfowitz, a former deputy Pentagon chief, is facing controversy
over the terms extended to his partner Shaha Riza when she was
seconded to the World Bank from the US State Department, the FT
said.


A spokesman for the then chairman of the bank's ethics committee
told the newspaper that it did not approve Riza's package.

