

Some 120 would-be immigrants headed toward the Canary Islands
were intercepted Friday off the coast of Mauritania, a security
official said.


A Spanish patrol boat intercepted the illegal migrants, who were
mostly from Senegal and Gambia, near Nouadhibou in northern
Mauritania, the official said, speaking on condition of
anonymity.


They were running short of fuel and food when they were stopped,
the official said.


The group has been handed over to Mauritanian authorities and
will be sent to a holding center in the country.


The Canary Islands, a Spanish archipelego in the Atlantic Ocean
off the northwestern coast of Africa, have become one of the main
destinations for African illegal migrants hoping to get to
Europe. They often try to make the journey in dangerous,
makeshift boats.


Last year a record 31,200 illegals landed in the Canary Islands,
three times more than in 2002 when the last record of 9,929
arrivals was set.


The number of arrivals has slowed in recent months, with the
reduction viewed largely as a result of improved surveillance of
the African coast and new diplomatic efforts by Madrid towards
the migrants' countries of origin.


European border security agency Frontex, which has coordinated
surveillance of the European Union's outside boundaries since
2004, has also stepped up its operations.


It began a new operation in February with help from Spain, Italy,
France and Luxembourg, and in conjunction with the Senegalese
authorities.

