

One of America's most wanted sex offenders -- accused of raping
his daughter and posting the film on the Internet -- has been
captured in Hong Kong after a worldwide manhunt, officers said
Thursday.


Former cop and bodybuilder Kenneth Freeman, 45, injured four Hong
Kong police as he struggled to escape arrest when officers
swooped at the southern Chinese territory's international
airport, local police said.


According to a statement from the US Marshals Service in
Washington, the grisly video was one of the most downloaded items
of child pornography on the Internet.


Freeman, described as a computer expert, went on the run in 2006
after child pornography charges were filed against him.


Federal officers had been tipped off by Chinese police that he
was in China and when he flew into Hong Kong airport Tuesday,
local immigration chiefs notified police they had one of the
world's most wanted men.


"This complex international case was a challenge for the Marshals
and our law enforcement partners," the agency's director John
Clark said in the statement.


"Fugitives charged with crimes against children are our top
priority. Freeman now will be returned to the United States to
face the justice he deserves," Clark said.


A spokeswoman for the US Consulate General in Hong Kong said they
were delighted with the level of cooperation between US and local
police.


The Marshals' statement said they had known for some time that
Freeman had been in China but as no extradition treaty exists
between the two countries, they had to wait until he left before
they could nab him.


Freeman's daughter, now a teenager, went public about her ordeal
on the hit TV crime show "America's Most Wanted", allowing
investigators to link the crime with her father, they said.

