

The US State Department's number two diplomat John Negroponte
announced Wednesday he will visit four Latin American countries
during May 7-12 to discuss trade, energy and cooperation issues.


"I'm delighted that next week, I will be visiting Peru, Ecuador,
Colombia and Panama. That would be my first visit south of the
border as deputy secretary of state, but I can assure you that it
would not be the last," said   Negroponte, who in February moved
to the State Department from his position as Director of National
Intelligence.


The trip will focus on pending free trade agreements, energy
issues and regional cooperation, and follow up on issues
President George W. Bush raised on his own trip to the region
earlier this year, according to State Department spokesman Tom
Casey.


Negroponte used the occasion of the announcement to press the US
Congress to support the trade deals.


"These pending free trade agreements with Panama, Colombia and
Peru are equally critical and I think they are strategic in their
significance," he said.


"In Congress, they also have to think about the message they
would send if these agreements were not approved. It would be, I
think, a victory for people who have an alternative view of
developments in the hemisphere. I think it would be a great set-
back strategically to the US and to our interests in the
hemisphere."


Casey said that Negroponte will meet with government officials,
local business executives and civil society representatives like
human rights groups.


Negroponte's reputation in Latin America is shaded by his
controversial role as US ambassador to Honduras in the early
1980s when the country's government allegedly engaged in
widespread human rights violations with little censure from
Washington.


Casey said that he will be accompanied on his trip by the State
Department's assistant secretary for Western Hemisphere affairs,
Tom Shannon.

