

A leading campaigner for the families of South Koreans abducted
by North Korea said Thursday he was thrown out of the North for
staging a protest hunger strike.


Choi Sung-Yong, head of the Representative of the Abductees
Family Union in Seoul, said he and his wife had locked themselves
in a hotel room early Wednesday during his trip to the North's
Mount Kumgang resort.


Choi, whose father was kidnapped to the North while fishing near
North Korean waters 40 years ago, said he had demanded an
interview with a top North Korean official there.


"I had risked my life in an attempt to deliver a letter to (North
Korean leader) Kim Jong-Il about those abducted including my
father, but my demand was rejected," he told AFP.


"I had tried to stage an indefinite hunger strike but it lasted
only for seven hours."


Choi said 12 officials from Hyundai Asan, the South Korean
company which operates tours to Kumgang, dragged him out of the
room at North Korea's instigation to stop his protest.


"Escorted by North Korean soldiers, I was thrown into a van and
moved to a border immigration centre," he said.


Choi said his protest was aimed at dramatising the issue of
abductees and prisoners of war (POWs).


Seoul officials say 485 South Koreans have been abducted since
the end of the 1950-53 war, and that 548 South Korean POWs were
never sent home after the armistice.


North Korea denies holding any South Koreans against their will,
even though some have escaped and come South.


Hundreds of thousands of South Koreans have visited the scenic
Mount Kumgang since it opened in 1998, but they are barred from
travelling to other destinations in the North without the Seoul
government's approval.

