

Scandinvian Airlines System (SAS) said Thursday it had sharply
narrowed its losses in the first quarter on increased sales and
cost-cutting measures and predicted favorable trends in passenger
growth for the rest of the year.


The airline reported a first quarter net loss of 47 million
kronor (5.14 million euros, 7.0 million dollars) from 1.06
billion in the same period last year.


"Seasonally this is the weakest quarter of the year," said SAS
chairman Mats Jonsson, "but we have adjusted our capacity to
lower demand levels."


First quarter sales rose 6.6 percent to 13.839 billion kronor,
just shy of 14.283 billion foreseen by analysts at SME-Direkt.


The number of passengers carried by SAS in the first three months
of the year jumped 6.3 percent to 9.1 million, the company said,
adding that its cost- cutting goal of 2.5 billion kronor in
2006-2007 had been 85 percent achieved by March.


SAS had come close to bankruptcy several years ago amid a global
crisis in the airline sector following the September 11, 2001
attacks in the United States, the war in Iraq and the SARS
epidemic.


But thanks to several drastic savings measures it managed to
return to profit last year.


Looking ahead, SAS said in a statement Thursday that "there are
currently no indications of a slowdown in the economy or the
airline market."


"However, uncertainty remains regarding the strength of growth,
the future competitive situation and the trend for jet fuel
prices. The trend in the first quarter was in a positive
direction and continued favourable passenger growth is expected
in most of the SAS Group's markets for the full-year 2007."


But the company added that competition in all its markets "is
expected to remain intense."

