

The husband of Philippine President Gloria Arroyo has dropped
more than 40 libel suits against journalists just days after he
was released from hospital following heart surgery.


Lawyer Jose Miguel Arroyo, 60, in a letter read by presidential
spokesman Ignacio Bunye, said he was dropping "all libel suits."


"Both in sincere gratitude... and as a gesture of peace to the
many kind hearts who helped my family weather this crisis, I have
instructed my attorneys to withdraw all the libel suits pending
before the courts," the president's husband said.


"Seeking redress for all grievances that the libel suits sought
to address now pales in comparison to taking on a genuine chance
to make peace and to pursue a more positive and constructive
relationship with those who will accept my offer of a handshake,"
the statement added.


After his release from the hospital on May 1, the president's
husband was warned to "manage his stress" and avoid anything that
might lead to "a sudden burst of emotion."


Mr. Arroyo had sued journalists, editors and publishers over a
number of stories linking him to massive corruption.


The journalists in turn filed a class action suit against Arroyo
in December, charging that his libel suits violated press
freedom.


The lawyer representing the journalists, Harry Roque, said he was
recommending that they continue the suit,


"We filed the suit in order to protect press freedom," he told
AFP.


"Even if he has withdrawn the libel cases, he has done the damage
already, by having a chilling effect on press freedom."


One of the journalists being sued, Marites Vitug, editor of
Newsbreak magazine, said she will continue with the class action.


"We want a court ruling, not something that is out of his mercy,
not something because he is feeling magnanimous."


The editor of the Malaya newspaper, Jack Macasaet, said: "I will
not owe my freedom to him."

