

A crude bugging device has been found attached to the telephone
line of former Philippine president Corazon Aquino, her son said
Thursday.


A telephone crew on routine inspection of its facilities near the
home of Aquino, 76, in suburban Quezon city found the bug on
Wednesday, her son Benigno Aquino Jr said.


Aquino's son, who is seeking a Senate office against President
Gloria Arroyo's political party, said he suspected government was
behind the illegal wire- tapping.


"Naturally, the immediate suspects would be the government. It's
just a bit worrisome, since my mother is already old and retired,
and when the election is already near these things happen. It
clearly violates the law with impunity," Aquino said.


Aquino had earlier claimed the government had launched a campaign
to sully his reputation ahead of the May 14 mid-term vote.


Corazon Aquino, however, was unfazed, saying she would let police
finish their investigation. "I have been through the worst," she
said.


Aquino was swept into the presidency after a popular revolt
topped dictator Ferdinand Marcos in 1986, ending a 20-year regime
marked by widespread graft and abuses.


Three years earlier her husband, Benigno senior, was gunned down
by alleged government agents as he returned from exile in the US,
galvanising the political opposition that eventually led to
Marcos' downfall.


Aquino has been back in the spotlight in the past two years after
she openly broke away from Arroyo and called on her to step down
when allegations surfaced that she cheated to win in the May 2004
vote.

