

Belgian imaging technology company Agfa Gevaert said Thursday
that first quarter net profit more than doubled as cost-cutting
measures began paying off.


The company, which is shifting its focus from making film to
graphics and healthcare software, reported a net profit of 41
million euros (56 million dollars) for the first three months, up
from 20 million euros a year earlier.


At the same time restructuring costs and exceptional items fell
to eight million euros in the first quarter from 11 million in
the same period of 2006.


Underlying profitability also improved although sales were weaker
due to high raw material costs and the strong euro with earnings
before interest, taxes and exceptional items rising 7.4 percent
to 58 million euros while sales eased 3.0 percent to 786 million
euros.


Faced with the growing obsolescence of analogue cameras, the
company launched plans last June to save money by reorganizing
its operations into three separate companies focused on graphics,
healthcare, and film and other specialty products.


Looking ahead, chief executive Marc Olivie said: "High raw
material costs and adverse currency effects are... expected to
continue to impact our results in the months to come.


"We are also progressing well with the demerger process of the
group and we are on track to split into three independent, listed
companies by the end of the year," he added.


Shares in the company were showing a gain of 2.75 percent at
18.26 euros in early trading in Brussels as the Bel 20 index of
leading Belgian stocks gained 0.58 percent to 4,709.95 points.

