

Saudi Arabia's King Abdullah will oversee a summit between the
leaders of Sudan and Chad on Thursday in a bid to repair damaged
relations between the two states, a Sudanese diplomatic source in
Riyadh told AFP.


"Saudi Arabia will oversee a reconciliation summit in Riyadh
today between Chadian President Idriss Deby Itno and Sudanese
President Omar al-Beshir that will also include talks on Darfur,"
the source said, asking not to be named.


Relations between the two countries nosedived after deadly border
clashes between Sudanese and Chadian soldiers took place on April
9, in and around the war-torn Darfur region.


Sudan and Chad accuse each other of supporting rebel forces in
their respective territories amid international fears that the
continuing strife in Sudan's western Darfur region will spill
over into Chad and ignite a regional war.


The official Saudi news agency SPA said King Abdullah held talks
in Riyadh on Wednesday with the Chadian president.


The two leaders discussed regional, Islamic and international
developments, as well as ways of enhancing cooperation, SPA said.


Chad in November accused groups in Saudi Arabia, as well as
neighbouring Sudan, of supporting Chadian rebels in their recent
attempt to overthrow the government.


It said in a letter addressed to the UN Security Council that
certain influential circles close to the Saudi royal family were
"helping to recruit and equip the young mercenaries linked to the
mysterious Al-Qaeda on behalf of the Chadian rebellion."


The Sudanese diplomatic source told AFP that Sudan's president
was expected to be met by King Abdullah upon his arrival in
Riyadh on Thursday afternoon before holding talks with his
Chadian counterpart.

