

Vandals who attacked the grave of Janos Kadar stole the bones and
skull of Hungary's longtime communist leader, Budapest police
spokesman Tibor Jarmy told AFP on Thursday.


"Several bones, including the skull, are missing," Jarmy said
after exhumation of the remains.


The urn containing the ashes of Kadar's wife, which rested beside
the former leader, was also stolen, Jarmy said.


The desecration of the grave occured on Wednesday, with the
vandals removing the marble top of the grave and prying open the
coffin.


A graffiti reading "killer and traitor cannot rest in holy
ground" was daubed on the nearby communist workers' pantheon.


The desecration has outraged Hungarians. All the political
parties in parliament have condemned the attack, which Prime
Minister Ferenc Gyurcsany called an "appalling, inhumane and
cowardly act."


Kadar was installed as the leader of communist Hungary by the
leadership in Moscow after Soviet tanks crushed the 1956 anti-
Soviet uprising and ruled the country for more than three
decades.


Although he initially spearheaded a crackdown on supporters of
the uprising, Kadar later became known for his relatively liberal
economic policies.


The higher standard of living under his "goulash communism"
compared favourably with the more hardline regimes in the Soviet
bloc.


Kadar remains a controversial figure as many in Hungary are still
nostalgic of a time when basic economic needs were taken care of
by the state and jobs were provided for everyone, even though
political freedom was stifled.


Kadar died on July 6, 1989, less than a year before the country's
first multiparty elections.

