

Foreign ministers from five of the six nations involved in talks
on North Korea's nuclear programme plan to meet in Egypt this
week on the sidelines of an international conference on Iraq,
officials said Thursday.


The ministers from the United States, China, Russia, Japan and
South Korea are to attend the conference in the Egyptian resort
of Sharm El-Sheikh later Thursday on the reconstruction of war-
torn Iraq.


"There have been preparations for a separate five-nation meeting
but the schedule has yet to be fixed," a South Korean foreign
ministry official told AFP on condition of anonymity.


Japan's Kyodo news agency quoted sources as saying the meeting
would take place on Friday and aim to pressure on North Korea to
implement a six-nation nuclear disarmament accord.


The other nation in the six-party nuclear disarmament talks is
North Korea itself.


South Korea's Yonhap news agency said Wednesday that Foreign
Minister Song Min- Soon will stay in Sharm El-Sheikh for two more
days to hold talks with his counterparts from the United States,
Japan and Russia.


The Yonhap report did not mention China.


"The minister will try to hold bilateral meetings with his US,
Japanese and Russian counterparts on Thursday and Friday to
discuss the North Korean nuclear issue," an unidentified ministry
official was quoted as saying.


A February agreement set April 14 as the deadline for the North
to shut its Yongbyon nuclear reactor as a first step in scrapping
its nuclear programmes.


This slipped by because of an unresolved dispute over North
Korean accounts frozen at a Macau bank.


Washington says the funds have been released for collection and
it has done all that it should. But Pyongyang has refused to act
until it gets the money back.

