

Australia Thursday ruled out allowing Singapore Airlines to share
Qantas's lucrative trans-Pacific route, despite figures showing
demand for seats is growing faster than supply.


Transport Minister Mark Vaile said the flag-carrier's Sydney to
Los Angeles route would remain off-limits to airlines other than
Qantas and Australian discount flyer Virgin Blue "for some time."


Quarterly figures from the International Air Transport
Association (IATA) this week showed demand for seats on Asia
Pacific routes outgrowing available seats by almost one percent.


A Singapore Airlines spokeswoman was quoted by local media as
saying the figures justified increased competition on the
Australia-US route.


Qantas earns as much as 20 percent of its profits from the route
and the government, citing it as a "key national asset", has
repeatedly rebuffed Singapore Airlines' decade-long campaign for
access.


"The government has reaffirmed that it has no plans to revisit
the issue of rights for Singapore Airlines to operate beyond
Australia to the United States for some time," Vaile's spokesman
said Thursday.


Plans by Virgin Blue to launch flights to the United States would
would alleviate any capacity constraints, he said.


"Virgin Blue have recently announced plans to acquire seven
Boeing 777-300ER aircraft from Boeing with options for a further
six aircraft.


"The initial seven aircraft will be used by Virgin Blue to launch
flights to the United States in late 2008."


In January, Vaile quashed rumours that rival carriers might gain
access to the route if Qantas were to be taken over by a private
equity group, which has made an 11.1 billion dollar (9.2 billion
US) bid for the airline.


At the time, he said it would be "a number of years" before the
government would reconsider its Febrary 2006 decision to bar
Singapore Airlines from the route.

