

Several people were injured in another day of angry scuffles
outside Pakistan's heavily guarded Supreme Court on Thursday in
the latest protest over the sacking of the country's chief judge.


Police said dozens of lawyers, marching in support of ousted
Chief Justice Iftikhar Mohammad Chaudhry, ignored warnings not to
try to enter the building, where he was appearing before a
judicial panel, and clashed with police.


"Lawyers attacked us with sticks and we had to retaliate,"
officer Mehboob Ahmed said. Witnesses said five policemen and
several of the hundreds of protesters massed outside were
injured.


President Pervez Musharraf announced Chaudhry's dismissal on
March 9, drawing allegations that the president is trying to
weaken the judiciary and tighten his grip on power.


Protests have been held whenever the judge appears at the court,
and hundreds of opposition activists have been detained by police
to keep them away from the demonstrations.


Protesters chanted "Go Musharraf, Go!" and "Give a final push to
the crumbling wall."


Among the misconduct charges against Chaudhry being investigated
by the panel is that he illegally used his position to secure a
top police job for his son -- a charge the judge has denied.


Musharraf says he sacked Chaudhry as part of efforts to tackle
corruption.


But opponents of Musharraf, an army general who seized power in a
1998 coup, say the move was intended to weaken the courts and
make it easier for him to stay on as army chief past this year's
deadline set by the constitution.


The president also intends to seek re-election by the outgoing
parliament for another five years ahead of national polls due
late this year or early next -- a move that could spark other
legal challenges.


Chaudhry's defence lawyers were expected to conclude their
arguments before the panel later in the day.

