

Myanmar's ailing Prime Minister Soe Win returned Thursday to
Yangon after spending at least seven weeks in a Singapore
hospital, witnesses at the airport said.


Junta leader Than Shwe welcomed him when he arrived around 12:30
pm (0600 GMT) on a Singapore Airlines flight, the witnesses said.


He was immediately taken by car to a military hospital known as
BMH 2 near downtown Yangon, the witnesses added.


Authorities have insisted that Soe Win is in good health and was
merely in Singapore for medical checks.


But dissidents and exiles in Thailand believe that he is
suffering from leukemia, and expect him to continue to receive
treatment at the military hospital.


Analysts said that even if Soe Win became too ill to work or was
replaced, that would have little effect on the government because
all real power was with Than Shwe and the other members of the
military junta.


"This is a symbolic post. He doesn't have much power," Thailand-
based analyst Win Min said.


Soe Win, a lieutenant general, is thought to be aged about 58,
and replaced the disgraced Khin Nyunt as prime minister in
October 2004.


He rose swiftly in the leadership after allegedly plotting an
attack on the motorcade of opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi in
May 2003.


After the attack she was imprisoned and then placed under house
arrest, where she remains.


The clash between supporters of Aung San Suu Kyi's National
League for Democracy (NLD) and a pro-junta group left up to 80
people dead, according to dissidents. The government said four
people were killed and 50 injured.


Soe Win, a tall and stern man, is considered to be among the
leadership hardliners.


Concerns about Than Shwe's health have also risen this year,
after he spent nearly two weeks in January in Singapore for
medical checks.

