

Outgoing British Prime Minister Tony Blair's Labour Party faces a
potential drubbing in local and regional elections in England,
Scotland and Wales on Thursday, polls suggest.


Attention will in particular focus on Scotland, where the
Scottish National Party (SNP) has promised a referendum on
independence if it comes out on top, triggering warnings of a
break-up of the United Kingdom.


The local and regional ballots come as Blair prepares to hand
over power after 10 years, almost certainly to his less
charismatic successor finance minister and erstwhile rival Gordon
Brown.


Analysts say Labour could lose 600-700 seats to the main
opposition Conservatives, while the SNP could grab the lion's
share of seats in the devolved Scottish parliament.


In England, some 10,500 seats are up for grabs in 312 local
authorities; in Wales, voters are choosing a new 60-seat Welsh
Assembly, while in Scotland, they are voting for the 129-member
Scottish parliament.


The Conservatives will be trying to secure an electoral
bridgehead for their eventual return to power which they lost in
1997 to New Labour -- the powerful pro-business centrist force
that Blair transformed from its leftwing roots.


The Tories have gradually overtaken Labour in opinion polls since
reform-minded David Cameron became their leader 18 months ago,
with a goal to turn the right- wing party into a centrist and
electable force.


According to London School of Economics analyst Tony Travers,
Labour risks losing its activist base in southern England the way
that the Conservatives lost theirs in much of the urban north in
the 1980s and 1990s.


"Once you've lost this power base, it's very difficult to win it
back again," he said.


With the Scottish Nationalists set to do well, even become the
largest party in the Edinburgh assembly, Labour's place in the
current coalition with the Liberal Democrats is in doubt,
Strathclyde University's John Curtice suggests.


The SNP has also worried Labour with its calls for Scottish
independence, though Labour party members believe that opinion
polls showing majority support for independence contain hidden
protests against Labour's performance.


Blair's hopes of avoiding disaster in Scotland were bolstered
slightly on the eve of the polls, when a survey showed the
Nationalists' poll lead narrowing to two percentage points, with
the SNP on 34 percent against 32 for Labour, though a more recent
poll released Thursday contrasted those findings, showing the SNP
holding a clear lead over Labour.


Labour's prospects are better in Wales, where opinion polls and
council by- election evidence suggest that support for the Plaid
Cymru nationalists may have peaked, according to the domestic
Press Association.

