

The board of directors for Dow Jones & Co. announced late
Wednesday that it will take no action on the surprise five-
billion-dollar bid launched by Rupert Mudoch's News Corp.


The prize asset of Dow Jones & Co. is The Wall Street
Journal, which dates back to 1889 and is the most prominent daily
business publication in the United States.


Michael Elefante, a board member who represents the Bancroft
family -- which owns the shares that make up 52 percent of the
company's outstanding voting power -- told the Dow Jones Board of
Directors Wednesday that they oppose the bid.


The Bancrofts would "vote shares . . . against the proposal
submitted by News Corporation to acquire Dow Jones," the
statement read.


Approval of the merger according to Delaware law "requires
approval of a majority of the outstanding voting power of the
corporation.


"Accordingly, the Dow Jones Board of Directors has determined to
take no action with respect to the proposal".


Widely spread out, the Bancroft family holds 24 percent of the
capital but more than 62 percent of the vote in Dow Jones. So if
only 52 percent were opposed to the Murdoch bid, that means the
family is split on the offer.


Murdoch's bid led to the Down Jones stock spiking more than 60
percent by the time the markets closed on Monday, the day the bid
was made public.


According to a source close to the transaction quoted on The Wall
Street Journal website late Wednesday, the family appears to be
split among generational lines, with the younger members seeking
to sell and the older ones resisting.


Murdoch's offer of 60 dollars per share led to intense
speculation on Wall Street, with Dow Jones shares finishing the
day Wednesday at 56 dollars, a five- year high.

