

An academic study of NBA referees over a 13-year period showed
that white officials were more likely to call fouls on black
players and vice versa, according to a published report.


Wednesday's editions of The New York Times cited a paper to be
published by a professor at the University of Pennsylvania and a
graduate student at Cornell University that examined foul calls
from 1991-2004.


According to the report, the study determined that the rates at
which fouls are called have a difference large enough that the
racial makeup of the three-person officiating crew could affect
the outcome of a National Basketball Association game.


It found that players similar in every way except race drew fouls
at a difference of up to four percent, depending on the race of
the official.


However, NBA commissioner David Stern told the Times that the
league had seen a copy of the study in 2006, which prompted its
own study conducted in March using the league's database of foul
calls, which specifies the official calling a foul.


"We think our cut at the data is more powerful, more robust, and
demonstrates that there is no bias," Stern told the newspaper.


The Times asked three independent experts to examine both the
academic study and the league research, with all three stating
the former was more sound.


Also factored into the study were the group's time on the court.
Black players played 83 percent of minutes and 68 percent of
referees were white.


Minnesota Timberwolves guard Mike James and Philadelphia 76ers
forward Alan Henderson, both of whom are black, told the
newspaper they did not believe they had been treated differently
by black or white referees.

