

Australia on Thursday signed the first in a series of contracts
that will see its air force buy 24 Boeing F/A-18F Super Hornet
fighter-bombers from the US Navy, the Defence department said.


The department said it signed an initial contract worth 2.9
billion dollars (2.4 billion US), almost half the value of the
six billion dollar acquisition programme.


The planes will fill the fighter-bomber role for the Royal
Australian Air Force (RAAF) after the retirement of ageing F-111
in 2010 and ahead of the arrival of Lockheed F-35 Lightning Joint
Strike Fighters (JSFs) from 2015.


The defence department described the F/A-18F as "a highly
capable, battle proven, multi role aircraft" that the US Navy
planned to retain in service until 2030.


"(It) will ensure our air combat capability edge is maintained
through the transition to the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter over the
next decade," it said.


Australia, a key US military ally, plans to buy up to 100 of the
F-35s from around 2015 at a cost of up to 19 billion dollars,
making it the biggest military procurement project in the
country's Australian history.


The Joint Strike Fighter is a stealth-capable, supersonic multi-
role aircraft, whose development has been funded by an
international consortium led by the United States and including
Britain, Australia and Canada.


The 240 billion US dollar project has faced a string of delays
and cost blowouts but the F-35 Lightning II made a first
successful test flight last December.


The US Defense Department plans to buy 2,400 of the fighters, and
international sales could account for another 2,000 to 3,500
aircraft.

