

UBS, Switzerland's largest bank, on Thursday reported a 7.0
percent decline in first quarter net profit reflecting a 150
-million-Swiss franc loss at its Dillon Read Capital Management
(DRCM) unit.


The bank said net earnings in the quarter fell to 3.275 billion
Swiss francs (2.704 billion dollars, 1.987 billion euros) from
3.504 billion Swiss francs in first quarter 2006.


The performance was slightly below analysts' average forecasts of
a 3.4 billion Swiss franc profit.


The 2006 result included a pre-tax gain of 290 million Swiss
francs from the sale of energy holding company Motor-Columbus.


In a separate statement, UBS announced it will reintegrate the
DRCM managed portfolios into its investment banking business,
resulting effectively in the closing down of the business, which
has been severely hit by difficult market conditions in US
mortgage securities.


Profit from continuing operations from financial businesses
reached a record 3.182 billion Swiss francs in the first quarter
of 2007, up 4.0 percent on both an annual basis and from the
fourth quarter of 2006, UBS said.


Clive Standish, the bank's chief financial officer, said in a
statement he was "confident that 2007 will be another successful
year of growth for UBS."


Return on equity was 28.7 percent, down from 29.6 percent a year
earlier but still above UBS's target of a 20 percent minimum.


Invested asset levels stood at 3.1 trillion Swiss francs, up 4.0
percent from the beginning of the year and reflecting strong net
new money inflows, the bank said.


The integration of DRCM into the investment banking arm will cost
around 300 million dollars, which will be partially offset by
some 200 million dollars in synergies, CFO Clive Standish told a
telephone conference.


Third party investors, who placed some 1.5 billion Swiss francs
in DRCM, will be reimbursed, the bank said.


"Operating a proprietary trading platform outside the Investment
Bank and managing client money alongside became too complex and
expensive," said John Fraser, chairman of UBS's Global Asset
Management unit.


UBS shares fell sharply in morning trade on the Zurich stock
exchange, down 3.2 percent at 76.05 Swiss francs.


Banking rival Credit Suisse, which on Wednesday reported a 5
percent rise in first quarter net profit, saw its shares fall
0.84 percent to 94.2 Swiss francs.

