

US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice urged broad and sustained
international support Thursday for a five-year plan aimed at
stabilising Iraq.


"As the Iraqi government works to better the lives of all Iraqis,
it will need the continuous and active support of its regional
neighbours and the international community," she said.


Rice was speaking at the opening session of a conference in the
Egyptian resort of Sharm el-Sheikh marking the launch of the
International Compact with Iraq, which is a framework for
political, security and economic progress.


"Today's Compact meeting is an historic event, but we all know it
is the beginning of a process and not an end in itself," she
said.


"This process will grow and strengthen as more countries and
organisations commit to supporting Iraq, so we must all work to
expand international participation in this compact," she said.


Foreign ministers and top diplomats from more than 50 countries
are taking part in the two-day conference, seen as the biggest
diplomatic push to solve Iraq's woes since the 2003 US-led
invasion.


"We have all said at one time or another that a stable Iraq is in
our best interest, now it is time for every country to support
this goal with new actions," Rice added.


The second day of meetings in the Egyptian resort is expected to
bring together Iraq's neighbours in a bid to obtain a commitment
from key players such as Iran and Syria on security issues.


Rice herself could hold rare talks with Syria and Iran, two
countries Washington has accused of fueling bloodshed in Iraq by
funding the Sunni insurgency and Shiite militias respectively.

