

Oil prices were narrowly mixed in Asian trade Thursday on hopes
for an improvement in US refinery output after another decline in
US gasoline (petrol) stocks, dealers said.


Gasoline inventories in the world's biggest energy consumer are
in focus ahead of the peak-demand driving season later this month
when Americans take to the roads for their holidays.


At 10:45 am (0245 GMT), New York's main oil futures contract,
light sweet crude for delivery in June, was down four cents to
63.64 dollars a barrel from 63.68 dollars in late US trades.


Brent North Sea crude for June delivery rose 27 cents to 66.52
dollars.


US gasoline reserves fell 1.1 million barrels to 193.1 million in
the week ending April 27, according to official figures
Wednesday. The market had been anticipating a drop of 1.3 million
barrels.


"In US trade, (the contract) traded down but in Asian trade it is
trading sideways. It's going to stay in a narrow band of about 63
dollars or so," said Victor Shum, an analyst with energy
consultancy Purvin and Gertz in Singapore.


"The results of the (US oil) inventory report were generally
mixed with a bearish tone ... there is an indication that
refinery utilisation (rates) in the US are picking up and that
would mean that gasoline supplies get relieved somewhat."


US refineries ratcheted up their gasoline production last week by
a half point from the prior week. However, the downturn in
gasoline stocks was the 12th consecutive weekly decline and
reserves have now fallen 34.1 million barrels since the start of
February.


US crude oil reserves increased 1.1 million barrels to 335.6
million barrels last week, below forecasts for a rise of 1.5
million.


Despite concerns over global stockpiles, the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) said Wednesday it saw no
need to increase output.


"The market is stable," OPEC secretary general Abdullah el-Badri
said in Riyadh on Wednesday.


"I think maybe in June we will review the market to see if we
need more oil or not -- but I don't think we need it."

