

Australian share prices chalked up another all-time high
Thursday, adding 0.13 percent as investors cheered a sustained
rally into record territory on Wall Street overnight, dealers
said.


They noted, however, that the gains were modest, reflecting some
caution at chasing stocks too far, too fast, in the current heady
atmosphere.


The resources once again provided solid support, with Rupert
Murdoch's interests attracting attention after his bid for Dow
Jones in the United States, while speculative trade continued
around Qantas ahead of Friday's deadline for a private equity
takeover offer.


The key S&P/ASX 200 added 7.9 points at 6,245.6, surpassing
Wednesday's record finish of 6,237.7. The broader All Ordinaries
index gained 12.4 points to settle at an all-time high of
6,236.9.


Turnvoer was 1.68 billion shares worth 5.42 billion dollars (4.48
billion US), with rises outnumbering falls 689 to 556 and 360
stocks unchanged.


CMC Markets senior dealer James Foulsham said a strong lead from
Wall Street helped propel the Australian bourse into record
territory.


"The materials sector was relatively strong but finance was
holding the market back a bit -- BHP and Rio were strong and
propping it up.


"We saw people being a bit reluctant to buy into the rally and
with it being Friday tomorrow, we might see a little bit of
selling and reducing of positions before the weekend," he said.


The Australian-listed shares of Rupert Murdoch's News Corp gained
after their counterpart stock in the US rose overnight as
analysts reassess the company's 5.0 billion US dollar takeover
offer for media firm Dow Jones & Co.


News Corp rose 0.19 dollars to finish at 28.76 dollars while its
non-voting stock was up 0.24 to 26.60.


Allco Finance Group, a member of the Macquarie-Bank led
consortium bidding for Qantas Airways, rose after the group said
it had gained acceptances for 32.96 percent of the national flag
carrier's issued capital ahead of the expiry of its offer Friday.


Allco Finance jumped 0.40 or 3.29 percent to end at 12.55 while
Macquarie Bank advanced 0.82 to 89.72. Qantas added 0.03 to 5.37,
with the market expecting the offer for the airline to succeed on
a lafe flurry of acceptances.


Australia's fourth largest bank, Westpac, fell on profit-taking
after announcing a record fiscal first half net profit of 1.64
billion dollars, up 12 percent year-on-year. Westpac ended down
0.34 at 27.20.


National Australia Bank gained 0.19 to close at 44.00,
Commonwealth Bank rose 0.21 to 53.58 and ANZ eased 0.05 to 30.74.


Telstra eased 0.01 to 4.84 and its T3 receipts were also down
0.01 at 3.39, Telecom of New Zealand shed 0.05 to 4.35 but
SingTel gained 0.06 to 2.76.


BHP Billiton rose 0.13 to 29.89 and Rio Tinto advanced 0.28 to
83.03.

