

Some 30 Thai activists Thursday protested outside the US embassy
here against a new report that ranked the kingdom among the
world's worst offenders of intellectual property rights amid a
patent row with Western drug firms.


The activists accused the US Trade Representative's office of
grouping Thailand with copyright offenders such as China, Russia
and India in retaliation for the government's decision to allow
generic versions of AIDS drugs and heart medication.


Wearing black T-shirts with crossed-out pictures of US President
George W. Bush, they unfurled a banner reading: "Evil USA: Stop
threatening access to treatment in Thailand."


"This protest is to express our dismay and outrage at the USTR
decision in response to Thailand's decision to issue three
compulsory licences," the activists said in a statement to the
media.


So-called compulsory licences are allowed under World Trade
Organisation rules so that countries can temporarily suspend
patent protections on medicines to safeguard public health.


Thailand has issued compulsory licences for AIDS drugs Kaletra
and Efavirenz and popular heart disease medicine Plavix. The
government plans to import generic versions of the drugs from
India, but could also choose to manufacture them itself.


In an annual report released on Monday, the US trade office said
it was concerned by "an overall deterioration in the protection
and enforcement of intellectual property rights in Thailand."


Apart from rampant copyright violations on books, DVDs and
apparel here, the US report said Thailand's generic drug efforts
were "further indications of a weakening of respect for patents."

