

Finance Minister Rodrigo Cabezas on Wednesday denied that
Venezuela will be isolated following its announced withdrawal
from the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank.


The withdrawal decision was based on "economic ... and national
sovereignty," Cabezas said in an interview with Union Radio.


The finance minister also dismissed remarks Tuesday by US State
Department spokesman Sean McCormack that the move would hurt the
Venezuelan people and lead to economic isolation.


"On the contrary," Cabezas said. "We will continue to increase
Venezuelan ties in concert with other nations with the widest
freedom possible now," he said.


Cabezas mentioned increased economic ties with China, India,
Russia and Iran as proof of Venezuela's improved foreign economic
relations.


President Hugo Chavez on Monday announced that Venezuela was to
withdraw from the global lenders, calling them "tools of US
imperialism" and claiming they are dominated since their
conception by the United States and Europe.


"The IMF and World Bank have been giving their backs to Latin
American countries and thus this reaction," Cabezas said. "Today
the most important countries in Latin America -- Brazil,
Argentina and Venezuela -- do not have debts with the IMF."


Cabezas added that Venezuela's fees to the IMF, which are between
220 and 250 million dollars, will be returned once the withdrawal
is complete.


Chavez announced in mid-April that all Venezuelan debts with the
World Bank had been paid. Since 1999 Caracas has adopted a policy
of not taking out any new debts with either institution.


In Washington, IMF chief Rodrigo Rato refused to react to
Venezuela's withdrawal decision, saying he had yet to receive an
official request.


McCormack said Tuesday that it is "not just the Venezuelan elites
around President Chavez who suffer as a result of these
decisions, it's really the Venezuelan people who suffer."

