

The International Compact with Iraq (ICI) to be launched Thursday
at a conference in Egypt is a five-year plan aimed at stabilising
the war-torn country politically and economically.


Co-chaired by the United Nations, the World Bank and Iraq, the
initiative offers benchmarks for economic integration, increased
security and good governance.


It was inaugurated on July 28 in both Baghdad and New York but
its adoption by the conference which kicked off Thursday in the
Red Sea resort of Sharm el- Sheikh would mark its formal launch.


"Essentially, the Compact represents a road map for the next five
years aimed at helping Iraq to achieve its long-term goals of
economic prosperity, political stability and lasting security,"
United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki-moon said in his opening
remarks.


The ICI is seen as a framework that would help Iraq's embattled
prime minister, Nuri al-Maliki, to implement a reconciliation
programme between the country's warring communities.


The plan's execution would be mainly Maliki's responsibility but
it also provides for an array of measures offering technical and
financial support to his government.


Among the ICI's key points are new laws to pave the way for
provincial polls, allow the return into public life of officials
from the Saddam Hussein's former Baathist regime and set rules
for oil revenue-sharing.


The framework further aims to build up Iraqi security forces and
their capabilities and intends to form a mechanism to deal with
human rights issues and consolidate the base of transparency and
accountability.


On the economic front, it will study and identify the various
forms of investments, financial aid, debt exemptions and
technical and administrative support measures required by the
Iraqi government.

