

The Scottish National Party, which has promised a referendum on
independence, held a clear lead over the governing Labour Party
hours before voters go to the polls in Scotland, a poll published
Thursday showed.


According to the YouGov survey published in The Daily Telegraph,
the SNP had backing of 37 percent in the constituency vote, while
Labour was on 31 percent. the Liberal Democrats were on 14
percent and the Conservatives on 13 percent.


Because the Scottish parliament is elected by a partially
proportional representation voting system, voters cast two
ballots -- one for their local constituency representative, and
another for a wider regional representative.


In the regional poll, the SNP were again ahead, this time on 32
percent, with Labour on 27 percent. The Conservatives were on 13
percent, followed by the Liberal Democrats at 10 percent and the
Greens at nine percent.


Were those poll results replicated in Thursday's election, the
SNP would win 45 seats in the 129-seat Scottish parliament.
Labour, which has been governing Scotland in a coalition with the
Liberal Democrats, would win 39 seats.


The Scottish Parliament controls policy in Scotland over issues
such as health and education, but lawmakers in London retain
control over such things as defence, foreign affairs and major
economic issues.


British parties are also contesting elections Thursday to English
local councils and the Welsh regional assembly.


YouGov questioned 1,137 voters in every Scottish constituency in
the poll conducted until 5 pm (1600 GMT) Wednesday.

