

North Korean-made soju liquor is about to go on sale in the
United States for the first time despite Washington's trade
restrictions with the communist state, a news report said
Thursday.


South Korea's Hankook Ilbo newspaper, quoting the importer, said
the first shipment of "Pyongyang soju" left last month.


The main ingredient of Korea's traditional drink is rice, almost
always in combination with other ingredients such as wheat,
barley or sweet potatoes. It is clear-coloured and typically
varies in alcohol content from 40 to about 90 proof.


US-North Korean trade is rare as Washington imposes sanctions on
Pyongyang, which it lists as a state sponsor of terror. Imports
need approval from the US Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets
Control.


But Steve Park, 59, the Korean-American importer, told Hankook he
secured the office's approval last July.


Park said a cargo ship carrying 2,520 boxes of soju, or some
60,000 bottles, left the North's western port of Nampo for the
United States on April 9.


"If the customs procedures go as scheduled, the soju will be sold
at US stores, marketplaces and restaurants as early as late this
month or early next month," Park was quoted as saying.


"The North Korean government shows a positive response to this
business in that its product is to be exported to the US, which
has long been considered as a hostile country, through legal
procedures," he said.


"I think this will serve as a good opportunity to improve
relations between the two countries in the future."


Park, owner of a firm called Korea Pyongyang Trading USA,
emigrated from South Korea to the United States in the early
1980s. He has been engaged in North Korean trade for the past 10
years.


The Korea Times said the North Korean brand would initially go on
sale in the eastern US states.

