

US forces arrested two Iraqis suspected of smuggling weapons and
armour-piercing explosives from Iran in a dawn raid Thursday into
Baghdad's Shiite slum Sadr City, the military announced.


The arrests came ahead of a possible first meeting between the
foreign ministers of Iran and United States since 1980, at an
international conference on the future of Iraq in the Egyptian
resort of Sharm el-Sheikh.


"The individuals targeted during the raid are suspected members
of a secret cell terrorist network known for facilitating the
transport of weapons and explosively formed penetrators, or EFPs,
from Iran to Iraq," the military said.


The statement said the network was also training Iraqi militants
in Iran.


Washington and Tehran's fraught relationship has been recently
further complicated by US accusations that the Iranians are
supporting Iraqi attacks on coalition forces.


US forces say that in addition to weapons and training, Iranian
forces are supplying Iraqi armed groups with specially made
explosives capable of puncturing the heavy armour on military
vehicles.


Iran considered boycotting the Sharm el-Sheikh conference over
objections to the US detention of seven of its citizens in Iraq.


US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice has described herself open
to a "firm" dialogue with Iran at the conference amid rising
pressure on Washington to engage with Tehran over the
deteriorating situation in Iraq.


The latest US government report on terrorism, issued Monday,
however, said Iran "remained the most active state sponsor of
terrorism."

