

Developing countries could be hard hit by agricultural trade
liberalisation if poverty reduction is not at the forefront of
policymakers' agendas, the United Nations food agency warned on
Wednesday.


"Not only will some developing countries not gain from trade
liberalisation, in some cases they may be adversely affected and,
not surprisingly, they see this as a threat to their domestic
production and food security," said David Hallam, chief of the
Food and Agriculture Organisation's trade policy service.


Reduced tariffs means increased competition from imported foods
for locally produced products, and rural incomes and economy may
not yet be ready to withstand this influx, he warned.


Hallam was speaking at the launch of the FAO's annual report on
the "State of the Agricultural Commodity Markets".


He urged negotiators in the World Trade Organisation's ongoing
Doha round of talks to ensure that any new rules are compatible
with the UN's Millennium Development Goal on poverty reduction.


This calls for the number of people suffering from hunger and
living in extreme poverty to be reduced by half by 2015.


Hallam said there was a "broad agreement that the rules of the
international trading system should recognise the food security
and development needs and the priorities of all developing
countries."


"In the language of the World Trade Organisation, these countries
need significant special and differential treatment," he said.


The WTO's Doha round of trade talks, launched in the Qatari
capital in 2001 with an ostensible focus on development issues,
has been mired in an impasse since July 2006 with developed and
developing countries split over issues of agricultural subsidies
and market access.

