

Japan and China agreed Wednesday to "look frankly" at history and
support a "constructive" world role for each power, in a joint
statement issued after a rare summit here.


Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao
agreed "to look at history frankly and jointly build a beautiful
future for the bilateral relationship," the joint statement said.


China has accused Japan of not atoning for its past aggression,
and cited the issue to scuttle Tokyo's cherished bid for a
permanent seat on the UN Security Council.


"China said Japan should play a more constructive role in the
international community," the statement said, without explicitly
backing the UN bid.


The Asian powers should "contribute constructively to the world's
peace, stability and development" and "assume the
responsibilities given to both countries in the new era," it
said.


Wen is the first Chinese leader to visit Tokyo in seven years.
China refused all summits with Abe's predecessor, Junichiro
Koizumi, due to his repeated visits to a controversial war
shrine.


Japanese conservatives, some of them close to Abe, have
frequently accused China of exploiting the history issue to keep
Japan in check.


But Wen told Abe that for China, "history is our mirror,"
according to the Japanese leader's close aide, Hiroshige Seko.


"The history issue stems from people's feelings and is the
political foundation for Japan-China relations, so it is very
important," Wen was quoted as saying.


If we handle it well, it would become a good foundation. If not,
it would affect the two nations' relationship," he said,
according to Seko.


"It's not that we're obsessed with the past or using it as a
playing card. But we are saying this because we want to look to
the future by learning from history."


Seko said the two sides did not talk about any specific history
issues, such as the Yasukuni war shrine or Abe's controversial
recent remarks about World War II sex slaves.

