

Middle Eastern oil producers, despite sound economies, are
saddled with high unemployment rates and must find new sources of
wealth to meet a growing demand for jobs, the IMF said Wednesday.


The International Monetary Fund in a report on global economic
prospects nonetheless said the outlook for the Middle East as a
whole remained "favorable," with growth in the region expected to
come to 5.5 percent this year and next after 5.7 percent in 2006.


In addition to Gulf oil exporters, the IMF classification of the
Middle East includes Iran, Egypt, Syria, Lebanon, Jordan and
Israel.


Among oil exporters, economic momentum is seen slipping to 5.3
percent in 2007 and 5.2 percent in 2008 from 5.5 percent last
year.


But the IMF contended that oil producers are still heavily
dependent on the petroleum sector at a time when "rapid
population growth has contributed to some of the highest
unemployment levels in the world."


While Gulf oil exporters have managed to boost public sector
employment, "the demand for jobs is outpacing economy-wide supply
by increasing margins," the IMF said.


It added that currently favorable circumstances afford an
opportunity to address "the twin challenges of diversifying oil-
dependent economies and providing employment in a rapidly
expanding labor force."


The Fund in particular urged a greater role for private
investment in the non- oil sector and improvements in the
business climate through a reduction in red tape and better
access to credit for small- and medium-sized companies.


It said that the pace of growth in the Middle East had been
tempered by a decline in oil prices since August, a trend that
could affect activity overall this year.


But the IMF noted that "prudent management" of oil revenues has
left exporters "in a much stronger position than in previous
cycles to smooth public spending."

