

The wife and mother of two French citizens who remain missing
after a Greek cruise ship accident last week described how they
had been trapped in their cabin when the boat sank.


Anne Allain, 43, was in a lower-deck cabin with her 46-year-old
husband Jean- Christophe and their 16-year-old daughter Maud when
the ship hit a reef off the Greek island of Santorini last
Thursday.


The 143-metre (472-foot) Sea Diamond, operated by Cyprus-based
Louis Hellenic Cruise Lines, hit a reef half a nautical mile
offshore as it was preparing to dock and quickly took on a 12
degree list to starboard.


In written testimony sent to AFP, Allain however insisted that
"at no point did any of us feel a jolt."


Even when water began gushing under the cabin door, "we
immediately thought that the pool had overflowed due to the
(ship's) list, and we did not worry about taking further measures
and closed the door," continued Allain, who lives in Doue-la-
Fontaine in northeastern France.


The water level rose so quickly that it soon became impossible
for them to open the door.


Allain called the reception, where someone told her "do not move,
because a member of the crew (will) come immediately."


As they waited, the water outside the cabin continued to rise,
exerting such pressure on the door that it finally burst open: "A
huge wave poured into the space where we were," she said.


Allain suddenly found herself swimming under water in the
corridor. She found a pocket of air and was able to fill her
lungs before diving back down to continue towards the stairs.


"I didn't feel capable of turning around and, since I knew that
Maud and Jean- Christophe were good swimmers, I decided to go up
and look for Raphael (her son who had stayed on deck) and call
for help," she explained.


Meanwhile, the evacuation of the ship's other 1,153 passengers
and 391 crew members was under way. Jean-Christophe and Maud
Allain are the only passengers who remain missing.

