

Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki arrived in South Korea on
Wednesday for a visit focused on securing aid and investment for
his war-battered country.


After his arrival from Japan, Maliki had dinner with Prime
Minister Han Duck-Soo to discuss ways to speed up Korean
companies' help with reconstruction of Iraq, the presidential
office said.


On Thursday Maliki will meet President Roh Moo-Hyun to discuss
ways to enhance cooperation in natural resources, energy and
construction, the office said.


Government aid for reconstruction and ways to help Korean
enterprises make inroads in Iraq would also be on the agenda
during Maliki's visit, it said.


The Iraqi premier, accompanied by his petroleum, power
generation, industrial policy and urban planning minister, will
also tour industrial plants in the southern city of Ulsan before
leaving Friday.


Maliki is the highest-ranking official from his country to visit
South Korea since the inauguration of the Iraqi interim
government last May. Iraq reopened its embassy in Seoul last
November.


South Korea has 1,300 soldiers stationed in the northern city of
Irbil, the third largest foreign force after the United States
and Britain, but is looking to pull them out by the end of this
year if possible.


The number will be reduced to 1,200 by the end of April, a
defence ministry official said.


South Korea has provided some 220 million dollars' worth of
assistance to rebuild the country.

