

Former Croatian prime minister Ivica Racan resigned as the head
of the main opposition Social Democratic party on Wednesday due
to a battle with cancer.


"Facing a grave illness, I continue my fight for life, but the
time has come to thank you for the joint work and support for my
political activities," Racan said in a statement to party
members.


"I resign as the head of the party and you will have to continue
without me."


Racan, 62, has been hospitalised in Zagreb since March 24 after
cancer spread to his brain following an operation to remove a
tumourous kidney a month earlier.


According to local media reports, there are three possible
candidates to replace Racan at the helm of the Social Democrats
ahead of general elections due later this year.


They are the party's deputy president, Zeljka Antunovic, Zagreb
mayor Milan Bandic and Ljubo Jurcic, an independent economic
expert who is set to join the party.


Racan served as Croatia's prime minister between 2000 and late
2003.


His government is credited with significantly improving Croatia's
post-war image and ending its international isolation after years
of autocratic rule by the late nationalist president Franjo
Tudjman who died in 1999.


In the 1990s, Racan reformed Croatia's Communist Party which
changed its name to the Social Democratic Party and has headed it
ever since.


Croatia's proclamation of independence from the former Yugoslavia
in 1991 sparked the four-year war with Belgrade-backed rebel
Serbs.

