

Malaysia's sacked former deputy prime minister Anwar Ibrahim will
campaign in a forthcoming by-election as he gears up for a return
to formal politics, an official with his party said Wednesday.


Malaysia's election commission on Wednesday set April 28 as the
date for the by- election in the state seat of Ijok, in western
Selangor state, called after a lawmaker from the ruling National
Front coalition died last week.


"Anwar will be participating in the campaign and we expect better
support this time," said Syed Husin Ali, deputy president of the
People's Justice Party, which Anwar advises.


The last state election was in 2004, when the People's Justice
Party lost Ijok by a narrow margin of 1,649 votes to the ruling
National Front coalition.


Both the sides have said they would contest the seat.


"We will be fighting as an underdog, with very little money and
hardly any media coverage, but having Anwar on our side is a
great asset," Syed Husin told AFP.


Anwar was the heir-apparent to former leader Mahathir Mohamad
until 1998, when he was sacked after facing sodomy and corruption
charges that landed him in jail for six years.


Anwar's sodomy conviction was overturned but the corruption
verdict still stands, barring him from standing for public office
until April 2008.


However, Anwar has said he planned to run for president of the
People's Justice Party -- a position currently held by his wife,
Wan Azizah Wan Ismail -- when the party holds its annual national
congress at the end of May.


Syed Husin said Anwar had already returned to Malaysia's
political scene in recent months and that the campaigning in Ijok
would be another marker in Anwar's political comeback.


"Certainly he has returned to full-time politics," he said.

