

Beijing has corrected over 6,500 traffic signs and will next
target public toilets, museums and menus as it erases bad English
translations before the 2008 Olympics, a city official said
Wednesday.


The host city is taking aim at sloppy and often hilarious
translations that dot the city to avoid Olympic-sized
embarrassment over menu items such as "fried crap" and
attractions like the "Racist Park" -- a venue dedicated to ethnic
minorities.


"So far I think we have achieved good progress in standardising
English translations of signs," Liu Yang, a Beijing municipal
official involved in the effort, told a press conference on the
results of the campaign so far.


Launched last year, the campaign resulted in 6,530 transport-
related signs in Beijing being revised or replaced by the end of
2006. More than 1,000 others were dealt with at tourist spots
around the city.


"We are targeting public places that are closely related to the
life, work study and travel of our foreign friends," Liu said.


Inspectors have fanned out looking for the offending language in
an unprecedented effort affecting transport, medical, sanitation,
tourist and other facilities that could be frequented by visitors
from around the world for the August 2008 Games.


Besides the progress with road signs, Liu said 20,000 signs had
been inspected in medical facilities.


"The error rate is relatively small and efforts are now under way
to replace those wrong translations," he said.


Among the next moves will be a campaign to inspect 129 museums in
the city for bad translations, including those in the explanatory
notes in various exhibits, and the many howlers seen on
restaurant menus, such as "cow bowel in sauce", "corrugated iron
beef" and "acid food".

