

A suspected member of a German left-wing extremist group admitted
in court Wednesday to two failed bomb attacks in the 1980s as her
trial began here.


The 58-year-old defendant, Adrienne Gerhaeuser, presented a
statement saying that she had "knowingly and willingly" attempted
to bomb the Berlin Genetic Technical Institute in 1986 and a
clothing factory in Bavaria in 1987 on behalf of the far-left
organisation Rote Zora.


Gerhaeuser said she had provided alarm clocks for two detonators.
But in both cases the device failed to go off and no one was
injured.


She stands accused of belonging to a terrorist organisation and
attempting bombing.


The Berlin court said that because Gerhaeuser had turned herself
in to the authorities late last year she would face a maximum
suspended sentence of two years.


Rote Zora was a women's splinter group that claimed
responsibility for 45 bombings and cases of arson between April
1977 and February 1988 with the aim of bringing about radical
change in German society.


The group was part of the so-called Revolutionary Cells network
until 1986.


Debate about a wave of attacks unleashed by the far left in
Germany in the 1970s and 1980s resurfaced in recent months as two
former guerrillas from the Red Army Faction sought release from
prison.


Brigitte Mohnhaupt, who was convicted for her role in nine
murders in the left wing group's campaign against the West German
state in the 1970s, left jail last month after 24 years in
detention.


A German court granted the 57-year-old's release because she
served her minimum sentence and was no longer considered a
threat.


But a court in February refused prison day releases for Christian
Klar, 54, who led the RAF along with Mohnhaupt.


The families of the victims of the RAF, also known as the Baader-
Meinhof Gang, have bitterly opposed any clemency, partly because
Mohnhaupt and Klar never expressed remorse for the murders.

