

The euro struck a new record high against the yen on Wednesday,
buoyed by bright eurozone growth prospects and doubts about
whether world finance chiefs will try to shore up the Japanese
currency later this week, dealers said.


The euro reached 160.16 yen in early European trade, a record for
the European single currency against its Japanese counterpart.
The euro had hit an all-time high on Tuesday after the Bank of
Japan decided to hold its key interest rate at 0.50 percent.


Against the US currency, the euro eased to 1.3426 dollars early
Wednesday, from 1.3438 dollars in New York late on Tuesday.


The dollar stood at 119.18 yen, compared with 119.02 on Tuesday.


"There is still some uncertainty surrounding the Japanese yen's
likely progress through the week ahead," Calyon analyst Daragh
Maher said.


"The issue remains the proximity of the G7 summit."


Since last May, the euro has risen 13.5 percent against the yen
while the dollar has gained 9.0 percent, reflecting interest
rates in Japan that are substantially lower than those in the
eurozone and the United States.


Japanese rates are currently at 0.50 percent compared with 3.75
percent in the eurozone and 5.25 percent in the United States.


Market players remained divided as to whether the Group of Seven
finance ministers gathering this Friday in Washington will speak
out about the yen's weakness, which European officials say is
hurting eurozone exports.


"The Bank of Japan has at least raised interest rates (last July
and again in February) so I think this time it will be difficult
for EU officials to ask the BoJ to raise one more time," Dresdner
Bank strategist Kazuhiko Shibata said.


Despite pressure from eurozone officials, the G7 ministers --
representing Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and
the United States -- made no specific mention of the weakening
yen at the previous meeting in Germany.


Alongside firm growth in the eurozone, worries about the health
of the US economy have eased somewhat following last week's
surprisingly strong employment data for March, dealers said.


Early on Wednesday the euro was changing hands at 1.3426 dollars,
against 1.3438 dollars late Tuesday, 160.00 yen (159.97), 0.6792
pounds (0.6810) and 1.6367 Swiss francs (1.6349).


The dollar stood at 119.18 yen (119.02) and 1.2189 Swiss francs
(1.2164).


The pound was being traded at 1.9773 dollars (1.9726).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold advanced to
678.25 dollars per ounce, from 677.40 dollars late on Tuesday.

