

A car driven by a hi-tech ghost of laser sensors and computers
went on exhibit in London Wednesday, before it competes against
other robot cars in the United States in November.


The Volkswagen Passat 2.0 TDI drives using two eye-like laser
sensors in the front and one in the back that scan road
conditions, buildings, other vehicles and pedestrians over a
range of up to 200 metres (650 feet).


An on-board computer digests and acts on the information using
software developed by the Hamburg, Germany-based Ibeo Automobile
Sensor company, said company experts displaying the car at the
Science Museum in London.


In November, the car will compete against other driverless
vehicles in the third annual US Defense Advanced Research
Projects Agency (DARPA) Urban Challenge over a 60-mile course in
America.


"We are competing against the world's best in terms of automobile
technology," Ibeo chief executive Ulrich Lages said.


"Although we are a relatively small team and, unlike the big
players, do not have a large budget, we believe we have a great
chance at DARPA 2007," he said.


"Our innovative laser technology gives us a lead of several years
over our prospective rivals, especially in the field of object
and environmental detection," he said.


Christened LUX, the refitted Volkswagen that looks exactly like a
standard road model is due to go into small-scale production next
year and the firm hopes that its technology can eventually be
used in production cars.


At a conference in the US city of San Francisco in February,
scientists predicted robot-driven cars could be shuttling humans
around by the year 2030.

