

Malaysia may create a special commission to hear disputes
involving Muslims and non-Muslims following a series of cases
that have raised racial and religious tensions, a senior minister
said Wednesday.


Nazri Abdul Aziz, minister in the prime minister's department,
said the attorney-general was working on setting up a commission
to arbitrate in religious disputes.


"The aim is to resolve the problems which have arisen and may
arise in the future as a result of interfaith problems, problems
like conversion and all that, which have occurred many times
now," Nazri told AFP.


Malaysia is a Muslim-majority nation and conversion out of Islam,
or apostasy, is considered one of the gravest sins in the
religion.


The proposal comes amid growing anger from minority religious
groups, who say their rights are being undermined in legal
battles involving Muslims and non- Muslims.


Malaysia has a dual court system, with civil courts as well as
Islamic or sharia courts for Muslims in areas of personal law,
such as divorce.


However, there is increasing confusion in legal disputes
involving both Muslims and non-Muslims over which system has
jurisdiction.


In one recent case, an ethnic Indian Hindu woman whose husband
converted to Islam is fighting to have her divorce resolved in a
civil court, after being told to go to a sharia one.


An ethnic Malay woman, Lina Joy, who converted from Islam to
Christianity, has also been battling for over a decade for
official recognition of her conversion.


A final ruling from the nation's highest court on her case has
been delayed amid concerns over possible fallout from Muslim
groups, who accuse Joy of trying to undermine Islam.

