

Britain's Defence Secretary Des Browne on Wednesday took
responsibility for a much criticised decision to let sailors held
by Iran sell their stories to the media.


In his first interview on the subject, Browne admitted he had
felt uncomfortable about the decision by the Royal Navy before it
became public at the weekend and could have vetoed it. The
decision was rapidly reversed.


"The view was taken by the navy that it was in their interests to
have an opportunity to counteract the propaganda the Iranians had
put out," Browne said in an interview with Sky News and the BBC.


"The view was taken that if the navy allowed them to do that, the
proper interpretation of the regulations did not allow them (the
navy) to stop them taking payment."


Iran captured 15 sailors and marines in the northern Gulf on
March 23 and broadcast some of them making "confessions" that
they were illegally in Iranian waters before freeing them nearly
two weeks later as an Easter "gift."


After their release, seven gave a public press conference, but
two of them sold their stories to the media. The only woman
detainee, Faye Turney, reportedly struck a 100,000 pound (147,000
euros/196,000 dollars) deal with a newspaper and a broadcaster.


"I said at the outset, although this was a navy decision, I have
to take responsibility for it, and I don't seek to hide behind
the fact that the navy made the decision," Browne said.


"Ultimately, the buck stops here," Browne said.


British soldiers killed in Iraq, politicians and military figures
all said the decision by some of the 15 to sell their stories
tarnished the image of the armed forces.


Browne said his decision Monday to halt the sale of further
stories pending a review was taken following discussions with
defence officials.


"So clearly, with hindsight, I could have made a different
decision," Browne said.

