

Suspected terrorism suspects held in Ethiopia are being treated
well, the country's official media reported on Wednesday.


State-run Ethiopian News Agency (ENA) quoted some of the
prisoners as saying that the government had provided them with
basic needs and medical attention since they were brought to the
country.


"Suspected international terrorists who are under custody in
Ethiopia said they have not been subjected to torture or any form
of violation of human rights," ENA said in its website, where it
published a picture of eight of the detainees, some of them
dressed in track suits and smiling.


The claims came two days after Ethiopian government said it was
holding 41 terrorism suspects of 17 nationalities arrested in
Somalia, whose transitional Addis Ababa-backed government is
battling Islamist insurgents and clan militia, some suspected of
links to terror groups.


"I do appreciate everything. The treatment here is very good.
Ethiopians are very sociable and they respect human rights," ENA
quoted Muhibitabo Clement Ibrahim, a Rwandan suspect, as saying.


The suspects had appeared before Ethiopia's military court which
had ruled that 29 were to be released because they played "only a
marginal role".


Five, from Tanzania, Sudan, Denmark, the United Arab Emirates and
from Sweden, had already been let go.


The New York-based group Human Rights Watch has accused Ethiopia
of running a covert program detaining foreign Islamists, with
support from Kenya, the United States and Somalia's transitional
government.


In a March 30 statement, the rights panel detailed "arbitrary
detention, expulsion and apparent enforced disappearance of
dozens of individuals who fled the fighting" between Ethiopia-
backed Somali troops and the powerful Islamist movement from
December through January 2007.

