

A court in Copenhagen on Wednesday sentenced a Moroccan-born
Danish man to three and a half years in prison for promoting
terrorism, the Ritzau news agency reported.


The conviction of Said Mansour, 46, was the first under tightened
anti-terror legislation adopted by Denmark in 2002 in the wake of
the September 11, 2001 attacks in the United States.


He was arrested in September 2005 on charges of incitement to
terrorist acts.


He was specifically accused of having produced and distributed
some 12,000 CD and tape covers as well as CDs, DVDs and videos,
containing speeches and chants where people linked to terrorist
organisations called for jihad (holy war) and praised terrorists.


The material, recovered from Mansour's house and car as well as
markets, was produced between June 7, 2002 and September 8, 2005.


He was also accused of propagating material calling for the
killing of Jews, described as "monkeys" and "pigs".


Mansour maintained his innocence throughout the trial, which
opened in November, but the court found that he had distributed
the material with the aim of inciting terrorism and that he had
made anti-Semitic statements.


He faced a maximum of four years in prison.


Intelligence services throughout Europe had the man under
surveillance since 2001. He allegedly had contact with the head
of the Spanish branch of the Al- Qaeda terrorist network and met
Abu Qutada -- a key figure involved with Al- Qaeda financing in
Europe -- in London, Danish media reported.


He was also the registered user of a postal box in Denmark in the
1990s for Al- Qaeda number two Ayman al-Zawahiri of Egypt,
according to the press.


Mansour boasted of having personal contacts with Sheik Omar Abdel
Rahman, who is serving a life sentence in the United States for
having instigated attacks against targets in New York.


Rahman is also believed to have masterminded the first attack
against the World Trade Center in New York in 1993.

