

Indonesian prosecutors Wednesday accused a man of terrorism on
the opening day of his trial on charges linked to a blast outside
a US food outlet in East Jakarta in November 2006.


Prosecutor T.M. Agita accused Muhammad Nuh, 36, of violating the
anti-terrorism law by using violence or the threat of violence to
create widespread terror or fear, a charge that carries a maximum
life sentence.


"The defendant intentionally caused an atmosphere of fear and
terror, and intentionally caused damage to a public facility,
inspired by the suicidal action in the Bali bombing, because that
action was deemed as jihad," Agita was quoted by Detikcom online
news as telling the East Jakarta district court.


Nuh, an electrical repairman, had allegedly assembled an
explosive device using potassium from firecrackers and exploded
the bomb at a local outlet of US fast food franchise A&W at a
commercial mall in East Jakarta on November 11, 2006.


There were no casualties and only superficial damage to the
building occurred, but the defendant was found unconscious inside
the outlet. A search of his home by the police yielded electrical
wiring, batteries and potassium.


The defendant, who appeared in court wearing a white collarless
Muslim shirt, calf-length trousers and a pair of flip-flops, made
no comment during the hearing.


Defence lawyer Solihin Humaidi was quoted by Detikcom as saying
after the hearing that the charges were inappropriate.


He said charges of terrorism should not have been levelled
against his client because an act of terrorism would have to
entail a network of culprits, and the target should have been a
site of vital importance.


"We do not see that," Humaidi said.


Judge F. Farid said the trial would resume next Wednesday.

