

China's booming stock markets notched up another record this week
when they surpassed Hong Kong to become Asia's largest excluding
Japan, according to bourse data and media reports Wednesday.


The market capitalisation of China's two exchanges rose to 13.95
trillion yuan (1.8 trillion US dollars) on Tuesday's close,
piping Hong Kong's total market valuation of 13.97 trillion Hong
Kong dollars (1.795 trillion dollars).


At the end of last year China market capitalisation in Shanghai
and Shenzhen was nine trillion yuan, but the continued run-up in
prices since the beginning of the year has meant a 55 percent
jump in valuation.


The addition of major Chinese corporates to the mainland bourses
over the past six months meant that China was going to eventually
catch up with Hong Kong, said Zhang Qi, an analyst with Haitong
Securities based in Shanghai.


"Plus the current bull run is driving prices higher thus pushing
up the market capitalisation," said Qi.


Analysts have also warned that price-to-earnings valuations, a
way of measuring the worth of a stock, of many firms' shares on
China's bourses are too high, up at more than 40, or three times
of that of firms listed in Hong Kong.


China's exchanges have a long way to go before overtaking New
York stock exchange, which at 15.55 trillion dollars is the
world's largest in terms of capitalization, according Hong Kong
media reports


Tokyo is worth 4.65 trillion dollars, while the Nasdaq came in at
3.95 trillion and the London Stock Exchange 3.76 trillion, the
Standard reported, citing the World Federation of Exchanges
website.


Hong Kong's total market worth of 1.71 trillion US dollars ranked
sixth as of January 31 of this year, it said.


Chinese share prices reached a new high Wednesday, adding 1.48
percent to  50.93 points at 3,495.22 on the key Shanghai
Composite Index.

