

A Danish court rejected on Wednesday an attempt by 26 people to
sue Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen for involving Denmark in
the Iraq war.


The plaintiffs, who include the parents of a Danish soldier
killed in Iraq, had accused the prime minister of violating the
constitution by engaging Denmark in the war in 2003.


The group wanted to prosecute Rasmussen "as a representative of
the state, for the illegal decision taken by the government and
parliament on March 21, 2003, to enter into a war of aggression
against Iraq".


But the court ruled that "the plaintiffs neither separately nor
collectively are more affected by the Danish presence in Iraq
than the Danish population in general.


"This includes conditions in Denmark, the Danish soldiers'
conditions in Iraq as well as the Danish state's reputation
abroad. They are thus not directly affected by the Danish
presence in Iraq in a sense which is required to support a
lawsuit".


The court also noted that the Danish parliament's decision to
authorise Denmark's military participation had been renewed
several times.


Most of the plaintiffs were not directly involved in the war and
had no family members stationed in Iraq, which weakened their
case, experts said prior to the ruling.


The plaintiffs claimed that Denmark's involvement violated
article 19 of the country's constitution, which only authorises
war in self defence or as part of a United Nations intervention.


A lawyer for the plaintiffs, Bjoern Elmquist, told Danish news
agency Ritzau that the group would appeal to the Supreme Court.


Denmark has 460 soldiers in Iraq, including 415 in the southern
city of Basra under British command. Six Danish soldiers have
been killed in Iraq since 2003.


Rasmussen announced in February that the troops would be
withdrawn in August. However four helicopters and 50 crew will be
sent to replace them.

