

More than 50 junior military officers were jailed for seven years
Wednesday after pleading guilty to a failed 2003 mutiny in the
Philippines, but will walk free next year under a plea-bargain
deal.


The 54 officers changed their pleas from not guilty to guilty of
"conduct prejudicial to good order and military discipline" in a
deal with prosecutors during a courts martial Wednesday.


"We appeal to the court to consider their voluntary surrender,
voluntary change in plea and their long time in detention," their
lawyer Edgardo Abaya asked the court.


The officers asked that in exchange for admitting the lesser
offence, they be spared the more serious charge of mutiny, which
carries a life sentence.


After considering the request, the tribunal jailed the officers
for seven years and six months but immediately struck three years
off that sentence to account for time already served and another
three years for pleading guilty.


A group of about 184 soldiers who earlier entered a similar plea
bargain over the so-called "Oakwood Mutiny" in Manila's financial
district were jailed for just two years and will be reinstated in
the military.


It is now up to President Gloria Arroyo to decide whether the 54
officers sentenced Wednesday should be dishonourably discharged
or reinstated.


The renegade soldiers took over the "Oakwood" apartment and hotel
building, housing businessmen and diplomats for one day while
demanding that Arroyo and the defence chiefs step down.


They surrendered after being given an ultimatum.


One of the ringleaders, Lieutenant Antonio Trillanes, is now
running for Senate and campaigning from his jail cell.


At the same hearing, the court approved the release of four other
junior officers after the Army Special Adjudication Board said it
found no probable cause against them.


Seven other junior officers did not join in the plea bargain.

