

Canada's economy is likely to be dented by slower growth in the
United States but will probably outperform its larger neighbor in
2007 and 2008, the International Monetary Fund said Wednesday.


The IMF downgraded its outlook for Canadian economic growth for
the second time in the past six months, and now calls for an
expansion of 2.4 percent in 2007, according to its semiannual
World Economic Outlook.


The IMF report in September 2006 had pegged gross domestic
product (GDP) growth in Canada at 3.1 percent. In February that
forecast was cut to 2.5 percent as part of the IMF's annual
review of the economy.


Despite the latest downgrade, the IMF sees the Canadian economy
growing faster than that of the United States in 2007, estimated
at 2.2 percent, and again in 2008, with Canada growing at 2.9
percent compared with projected US growth of 2.8 percent.


"Domestic demand growth is expected to weaken as a result of
earlier interest rate increases, although the negative
contribution to growth from the external sector should ease
during the course of the year as the US economy rebounds and the
effect of past currency appreciation dissipates," the IMF
commented on Canada.


"Risks to the outlook stem largely from the external sector, most
notably a weaker-than-expected US economy, a sharp decline in
commodity prices, or a renewed appreciation of the Canadian
dollar."


The IMF said inflation at the consumer level is likely to cool to
1.7 percent in 2007 and increase slightly to 2.0 percent in 2008.
"Core" prices excluding the more volatile items is expected to
remain "close to the center of the 1.0 to 3.0 percent target
range of the Bank of Canada."


This means that if conditions soften, "there is ample scope to
cut interest rates to support activity."


The IMF said Canada's latest budget has "reaffirmed the
government's commitment to fiscal prudence," but said some cuts
to public health spending may be needed "to ensure long-term
fiscal sustainability."

