

Japan called Wednesday for North Korea to be "sincere" after a US
official announced a deal for Pyongyang to start shutting down a
nuclear reactor.


New Mexico state governor Bill Richardson, who visited Pyongyang,
said North Korea would start shutting its reactor within a day of
receiving funds that were being unblocked from a blacklisted bank
account.


North Korea had been refusing to meet its commitments under a
breakthrough six- nation deal to start shutting the nuclear
facility by Saturday, unless it saw the 25 million dollars.


"North Korea needs to act with sincerity under the agreement of
the six-nation talks," said Noriyuki Shikata, assistant press
secretary at the Japanese foreign ministry.


"If North Korea takes actual measures under the agreement, Japan
would look at them," he told AFP.


Japanese officials earlier voiced doubts that North Korea could
meet Saturday's deadline to start shutting the reactor, as the
banking dispute was still lingering.


"Practically speaking, it is getting difficult for North Korea to
meet the deadline, as they are still discussing the Banco Delta
Asia issue with just three days remaining before the deadline,"
Foreign Minister Taro Aso said before Richardson's announcement
in Seoul.


"In any case, it is important to implement the agreement quite
early and we will continue our efforts on that after the 60-day
period," Aso said in parliament, referring to the deadline period
under the February 13 deal.


Japan has taken the hardest line in the six-nation talks, which
also include China, the two Koreas, Russia and the United States.


Japan has refused to fund the nuclear deal and Tuesday extended
sweeping sanctions against North Korea to press it on a
domestically sensitive row over its past kidnappings of Japanese
nationals.

