

The recent suggestion by German Economy Minister Michael Glos
that taxes could be cut if the current economic boom continues
divided the ruling coalition of conservative and social democrat
parties here on Wednesday.


"Fiscal policy must be sound and serious. Making promises with no
definite timetable, for 2009 or later, isn't serious," the head
of the Social Democrat SPD party, Kurt Beck, told the mass-
circulation daily Bild.


Government spokesman Ulrich Wilhelm insisted at a regular press
briefing that taxes would not be cut in the current legislative
period, which runs until 2009.


"Top priority" for the government was to cut the budget deficits,
Wilhelm said.


Glos, a member of the conservative CSU party, the Bavarian sister
party to Chancellor Angela Merkel's Christian Democratic CDU
party, had said in a newspaper interview at the weekend that he
would "energetically" push for lower income taxes to ensure that
everyone benefitted from the country's economic rebound.


Berlin could upgrade its growth forecast for the current year to
at least 2.0 percent, Glos hinted.


But Glos' comments came under fire from conservative politicians,
too.


The CDU mayor of Hamburg, Ole Von Beust, told Deutschlandfunk
radio in an interview that "it isn't the moment" to discuss tax
cuts.


According to the results of a new poll commissioned by the weekly
Stern magazine, 46 percent of Germans believe that the additional
tax revenues generated by the current upturn should be spent on
education and research, 32 percent said the cash should be used
to cut debt, and only 20 percent were in favour of tax cuts.

