

A Japanese couple who had twins through an American surrogate
appealed Wednesday for the nation to recognise the practice after
a court decision led them to decide to raise their children as US
citizens.


Japanese laws do not specifically stipulate the legal status of
children born through surrogacy, which is not a crime but is
banned by the Japan Society of Obstetrics and Gynaecology.


"I read the ruling over and over again, and to be honest, I was
disappointed and felt angry," television personality Aki Mukai,
42, said at her first news conference after the ruling.


Mukai, whose womb was removed due to cancer, has ignited a public
debate in Japan on surrogacy.


She and her husband, professional wrestler Nobuhiko Takada, have
launched a high-profile campaign to have her twin sons recognised
as her and her husband's blood-related offspring.


But last month the Supreme Court ruled against the couple's
demand, although it called on the legislative branch to keep up
with the new realities of fertility treatment.


Mukai said she had decided to leave her twin boys with the US
citizenship they now hold after losing the court battle.


"We went to the court because there are no clear laws, but the
court's conclusion was only to say laws should be created soon."


The twin boys were born in 2003 through a Nevada woman, who
offered to become impregnated with eggs fertilised by the
Japanese couple.


Many Japanese couples are reported to have children through
surrogacy overseas, but simply report the child as their blood-
related offspring when coming back without disclosing how the
baby was born.


"I want to see an answer as soon as possible for such cases in
which babies are born legally through surrogacy overseas," Mukai
said.


Japan has one of the world's oldest populations as it struggles
with a low birth rate, while many women wait longer to get
married and start having children.

