

Hungarian and Croatian football officials were upbeat on
Wednesday on their chances of being picked to host the 2012
European football championships, saying their joint bid was
better than those of the two rivals.


The officials gave a preview of their final presentations at next
Wednesday's meeting in Cardiff, Wales, where UEFA will pick the
winner from the three remaining candidates, which also include
Italy and a joint bid by Poland and Ukraine.


"I am certain we will win the right to host," Vlatko Markovic,
president of the Croatian Football Association, said at a press
conference.


"I was there at all the previous presentations (of bids) and we
fared the best. While we arrived with one thousand pages of
material, others only had a thin booklet to show," Markovic said.


The joint bid will try to take advantage of the ongoing political
instability in Ukraine and recent football violence in Italy to
triumph in Cardiff, although the Italians are still considered
the country to beat.


"The whole country has united (behind the bid). Italy is a
football powerhouse, they are world champions. But I hope this
race will be won by the candidate with the best bid. I dream of
winning," said Tamas Gyarfas, the chief Euro 2012 project manager
for Hungary.


According to the presentation, eight cities -- four each in
Hungary and Croatia --  would host matches, with the final
scheduled at a renovated and  expanded Ferenc Puskas stadium in
Budapest, which would hold 61,000 fans.


The presentation, entitled "Give us the chance!," will include a
3-D video on the two candidate countries. UEFA president Michel
Platini will also receive a football signed by Puskas, the
Hungarian and Real Madrid legend who died in November.


Hungarian Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsany and Croatian
counterpart Ivo Sanader will travel to Cardiff to personally
lobby for the joint bid.

