

The White House is unable to find anyone willing to fill the
high-powered job of Iraq and Afghanistan wars coordinator, with
at least three retired four-star generals turning down the
position, the Washington Post reported Wednesday.


President George W. Bush is creating the job to coordinate
civilian and military aspects of the two conflicts, the Post
said, and whoever fills it will have the power to order other
agencies to act.


But, despite the job carrying the title assistant to the
president, one of the highest ranks in the White House, at least
one candidate turned it down saying it would be difficult to work
alongside powerful, dominating war hawk Vice President Dick
Cheney.


"The very fundamental issue is, they don't know where the hell
they're going," retired Marine Gen. John Sheehan told the Post.


"So rather than go over there, develop an ulcer and eventually
leave, I said, 'No, thanks,'" said Sheehan, a former senior NATO
commander.


The Post said the White House had also contacted, and been turned
down by, retired army General Jack Keane and retired Air Force
General Joseph Ralston.


The inability to fill the job reflects the continuing struggle
the White House has to find supporters for its war policy, over
five years after leading the invasion of Afghanistan and four
years from the invasion of Iraq.


Bush is currently in a tough battle over war funding and pullout
schedules with Congress, controlled now by the opposition
Democrats.

