

Iran is unlikely to attend a conference on Iraq's security next
month so long as the United States keeps five of its nationals in
detention, a deputy foreign minister was quoted as saying on
Wednesday.


"We told the Iraqi officials that as long as the Iranian
diplomats are not freed, the idea of Iran attending any
conference along with the United States will encounter serious
problems and obstacles," Abbas Araghchi told the hardline Kayhan
newspaper.


The United States arrested five Iranians during a raid in
northern Iraq in January. It accuses them of seeking to stir
trouble in Iraq and has detained them ever since. Iran says the
men are diplomats who were working for a "consulate."


Tehran has repeatedly called for their release. Washington has
responded by saying they are being detained pending an
investigation, although it has not announced any formal charges
against them.


Iraq has said the ministerial level meeting of its neighbouring
countries and world powers will be held in the Red Sea resort of
Sharm el-Sheikh in Egypt between May 3-4.


According to Iraqi Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zabari, the meeting
will include the permanent members of the UN Security Council and
the world's eight most industrialised nations as well as Iraq's
neighbours.


The meeting is to follow up a lower-level conference held in
Baghdad earlier this year that Araghchi attended alongside US
officials, in a rare contact between the two enemies.


Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki on Tuesday repeated Iran's
dissatisfaction with the choice of Sharm el-Sheikh as the venue
and said that only Iraq's regional neighbours should take part.


The US State Department spokesman has expressed frustration over
what he called Iran's "unfortunate" reluctance to take part,
saying he was "not sure what they're afraid of."

