

Cypriot owners of the sunken Greek cruise ship Sea Diamond
announced on Wednesday that the vessel was fully insured and
covered for any possible environmental damage.


The Greek-flagged ship, owned by Cypriot company Louis, hit a
charted reef near the tiny Greek island of Santorini on April 5
and sank the following morning to a depth of 140 metres (460
feet).


Of the ship's 1,156 passengers and 391 crew, two French tourists
-- Jean- Christophe Allain and his teenaged daughter Maud -- are
still missing.


"The company is in full cooperation with the relevant authorities
in trying to locate the two missing people but also to fully
investigate the circumstances of the accident for which we
express our deepest sorrow," Louis said in a statement to the
Cyprus Stock Market (CSE).


The island's largest tourism and leisure firm also said that it
was doing everything it could to help prevent any environmental
disaster off the Greek coast.


There are fears of an oil slick from the cruise ship's fuel tanks
-- containing an estimated 400 tonnes -- and anti-pollution boats
are at the scene.


Louis told the CSE it did not expect an "immediate impact" on its
financial results from the loss of the Sea Diamond.


"The Sea Diamond joined the Louis fleet in March 2006 and is
comprehensively insured (including its value and for any possible
environmental pollution)," said Louis.


Greek authorities have threatened to sue the ship's owners over
any oil pollution.


The company did not specify the amount the cruise ship was
insured for, although it was purchased for 35 million dollars
last year.


Louis said other vessels in the fleet have been carrying out the
Sea Diamond's scheduled routes while efforts are being made to
replace it with a new cruiser, "so as not to impact results of
the cruise sector during the year".


The 1,537-passenger capacity cruise liner was built in 1986 and
underwent refurbishment in 1999.

