

Libyan leader Moamer Kadhafi sent an envoy to Sudan and Chad on
Wednesday for talks aimed at easing tensions between the two
countries after deadly border clashes.


Abdel Salem Triki, mumber two in the foreign ministry in charge
of African affairs, said he would deliver letters from Kadhafi
calling on the leaders of the two countries to "return to peace
and dialogue."


After his arrival in the Chadian capital on Wednesday where he
was due to meet President Idriss Deby Itno, the envoy was to
travel to Khartoum to see the Sudanese leader Omar al-Beshir.


The visit comes two days after violent clashes between Chad and
Sudanese forces across the increasingly volatile border between
the two countries.


Chad says it was chasing rebels, but Sudan says 17 of its
soldiers were killed in the fighting. Chadian officials said 30
were killed on both sides.


The Libyan government has tried to mediate between the two
countries in recent months by posting Libyan monitors on the
border and calling on both Chad and Sudan to respect agreements
signed in Tripoli in 2006.


But the two countries routinely trade accusations, with Chad
complaining that the Sudanese-backed Janjaweed militia raids
villages near the border and Sudan accusing Chad of violating
international agreements.


"Relations between the two countries have their ups and downs," a
Western diplomat in N'Djamena said, adding however that he
believed it impossible for ties to reach "a point of total
breakdown."


Another diplomat commented that "the proximity is too strong,
they cannot completely burn bridges", adding that "Chad seems to
want to deflate the incident."


Sudanese Foreign Minister Lam Akol said late Tuesday after talks
with South African President Thabo Mbeki that Sudan was
determined to a seek a peaceful solution to the deadly violence
that has erupted with Chad.

