

Iran on Wednesday rejected doubts over the announcement that its
nuclear drive had entered a new phase, insisting that its uranium
enrichment work had now entered an "industrial stage".


"We don't want to disturb the pleasures of others. They have
expressed their doubts in the past," said Iran's chief nuclear
negotiator Ali Larijani, according to state media.


"But if they have doubts about our progress why do they try to
put pressure on us?" he said.


Iran did not give figures to back its announcement on Monday that
the nuclear drive had entered an industrial phase and it is not
clear exactly how many uranium-enriching centrifuges it had
installed.


Russia, which has been building Iran's first nuclear power plant
in the southern city of Bushehr, warned against seeing any
"breakthrough" in the announcement made by President Mahmoud
Ahmadinejad.


Diplomats based in Tehran have also questioned the substance of
the announcement, made by the president at a grand ceremony in
Iran's uranium enrichment facility in Natanz.


"They think that perhaps we need more time, until the autumn for
instance, to arrive at the industrial phase of enrichment," the
deputy head of Iran's atomic energy agency Mohammad Saeedi told
state television.


"But with the effort of our experts we reached the industrial
phase more rapidly," he added.


Larijani also said that he and EU foreign policy chief Javier
Solana had discussed the possibility of meeting for talks over
the Iranian nuclear programme, although this has yet to be
confirmed by Brussels.


"Mr Solana proposed talks between April 10 and April 13 but due
to my workload we decided to have them at a later date."


Enrichment of uranium is the key sticking point in the standoff
between Iran and the West as the process can produce nuclear fuel
but in highly extended form can also make the fissile core for an
atomic bomb.


Iran insists its nuclear drive is solely aimed at generating
energy.

