

Prime Minister Tony Blair on Wednesday urged Britain's black
communities to speak out against gang culture and called again
for tougher laws against gangs amid a spate of gun and knife
murders.


"In respect of knife and gun gangs, the laws need to be
significantly toughened," Blair said in Cardiff after a 14-year-
old was stabbed to death on Friday, the seventh Londoner under 16
to be murdered since late January.


"There needs to be an intensive police focus on these groups," he
said in the Welsh capital. "The ring-leaders need to be
identified and taken out of circulation; if very young, as some
are, put in secure accommodation."


In the last few months, Blair's government has been debating
whether to impose harsher sentences on those who use guns and are
members of a street gang.


"The black community -- the vast majority of whom in these
communities are decent, law-abiding people horrified at what is
happening -- need to be mobilised in denunciation of this gang
culture that is killing innocent young black kids," he said.


"But we won't stop this by pretending it isn't young black kids
doing it," he added.


The violence was not a symptom of a broader social malaise,
because most people, whatever their social, economic or ethnic
background, were content to "play fairly and by the rules," Blair
said.


"Most young black boys are not involved in knife and gun gangs,"
he added.


"What we are dealing with is not a general social disorder, but
specific groups or people who for one reason or another are
deciding not to abide by the same code of conduct as the rest of
us," he said.


He compared the violence to Britain's troubled past with football
hooliganism.


"In the end, football hooliganism was dealt with by a combination
of tougher laws, intensive police work, and reducing the
possibilities of organised violence," he said.

