

Indonesia's transport safety committee Wednesday confirmed
reports leaked to Australian media that an ill-fated  airliner
which crash-landed last month was flying too fast when it hit the
runway.


The Garuda Indonesia Boeing 737 slammed hard onto the runway in
Yogyakarta on March 7, careened off the end of the air strip and
burst into flames, killing 21 of the 102 passengers, including
five Australians.


Australian media had quoted a confidential report saying the
Indonesian jet was travelling nearly twice as fast as normal when
it hit the runway.


The Sydney Morning Herald said it had obtained a copy of the
initial Indonesian report that pointed to pilot error as the main
cause of the crash, and also claimed Jakarta authorities were
trying to suppress the report.


"The jet was flying at about 410 kilometres (255 miles) an hour.
This was not a normal speed," chief investigator Mardjono Siswo
Suwarno confirmed after an official press conference Wednesday.


Mardjono added the safety area at the end of Yogyakarta's runway
was not long enough to accommodate the speeding jet.


"If the area was long enough, the Garuda jet would not have
caught fire," he said.


A preliminary report released at Wednesday's press conference
stated the safety run-off section at the end of Yogyakarta's
runway was not a length of 240 metres -- the minimum recommended
under international aviation standards.


"It's approximately 115 metres in length," Mardjono said.


The chief investigator denied reports that the accident was
related to human error.


He also denied reports that the pilots had been arguing about the
jet's speed moments before it crash-landed.


Mardjono said a final report from the investigation into the
crash would be delivered within four months.


The Garuda crash was the second airliner disaster in Indonesia
this year. An Adam Air plane plunged into the sea off the island
of Sulawesi on New Year's Day in the earlier tragedy, killing all
102 on board.

