

Africa is gearing up to produce its own essential drugs, reducing
reliance on the West for lifesaving medicines for disease such as
malaria and tuberculosis, the African Union said Wednesday.


A plan detailing options for the continent to produce cheap,
quality generic drugs for those in need would be presented to
health ministers attending a conference in Johannesburg.


"We need to produce (medicines) in Africa. We have the potential,
why do we want to take them from outside when we can take it in
Africa?" Mamadou Diallo, chief pharmacist in the AU commission's
medical services directorate, told AFP.


"The main objective is to identify which kinds of medicines we
are going to produce, essential drugs we need for Africa, and who
is going to produce these drugs."


Many African countries currently rely on India and China for
imports of affordable generic drugs, but both countries are
subject to patent laws which threaten Africa's access to the
medicines.


According to Diallo, Africa has all the resources and capacity at
its disposal to manufacture essential medicines for the
opportunistic infections like tuberculosis, malaria and HIV/AIDS
which plague the continent.


Egypt has more than 30 drug manufacturing plants, Nigeria and
South Africa already produce medicines and a World Health
Organistion (WHO) assessment showed that out of 46 countries, 37
had pharmaceutical industries.


"All the resources are already available. Since those
manufacturing plants are already in place, there is already the
capacity to run them. The manpower to run that plant is already
there," said Diallo.


He said it would be up to the respective health ministers at the
conference to take the plan forward.


Nthari Matsau, deputy director general in South Africa's health
ministry, confirmed that the respective ministers would be
discussing the pharmaceuticals plan but refused to give further
details until after the meeting.

