

Hong Kong share prices closed 0.50 percent higher Wednesday as
another record finish on China's A-share bourses helped the
market reverse modest losses earlier due to profit-taking,
dealers said.


China stocks, notably financials, led the gains while local
property plays and blue chips were weak ahead of the release of
US Federal Reserve meeting minutes later Wednesday and key US
inflation data in the next few days.


The Hang Seng Index closed up 101.56 points at 20,449.43, off a
low of 20,278.84 and a high of 20,502.17. Turnover was 59.07
billion Hong Kong dollars (7.6 billion US).


"China's A-share market touched a new high today... and boosted
interest in select China stocks here," said Castor Pang,
strategist at Sun Hung Kai Financial Group.


"Investors in the mainland are somehow ignoring the (Chinese)
government's warning against overheating in certain sectors of
the economy," he said.


China financials were mostly higher, with China Life surging 0.95
at 24.15, Bank of Communications up 0.09 at 8.38 and Bank of
China up 0.01 at 3.94.


Ping An was up 0.60 at 40.30 ahead of its results announcement
later Wednesday.


China Construction Bank was up 0.07 at 4.66 ahead of its 2006
results announcement on Friday.


China Merchants Bank surged 0.68 to 17.60, in line with gains in
its A-shares following news that Chinese authorities have
approved a 900 million yuan (115.4 million US) cut in the bank's
taxes for 2006.


The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index closed up 136.96 points or
1.37 percent at 10,149.89.


"Today's trade shows that local investors are getting more and
more sensitive to what's happening in the mainland's A-shares
market," said Pang.


He said that investors are switching their attention from blue
chips to China- related stocks as the latter have more attractive
valuations.


"Many investors were cautious towards blue chips as they await
various economic data from the US," he added.


The US Federal Reserve is due to release later Wednesday minutes
of its March policy meeting. Other economic news scheduled in the
next few days includes producer prices and consumer inflation
data for March.


Local banks were mostly lower, with Hang Seng Bank down 0.10 at
113.30, and BOC Hong Kong down 0.02 at 19.32 while HSBC gained
0.60 at 139.30.


Cheung Kong lost 1.20 at 103.10 and Sino Land was flat at 17.80.

