

Europe's main stock markets advanced on Wednesday, as investors
focused on takeover news after slim pickings overnight on Wall
Street and earlier in Tokyo, analysts said.


In late morning trade, London's FTSE 100 index of leading shares
rose 0.21 percent to 6,431.40 points, Frankfurt's DAX 30 gained
0.34 percent to 7,191.16 points, and in Paris the CAC 40 added
0.36 percent to 5,787.14.


The DJ Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone blue chip shares won 0.40
percent to 4,318.50 points.


The euro stood at 1.3425 dollars.


Wall Street shares had closed slightly higher Tuesday as the
first quarter earnings season began, with investors displaying
caution ahead of a flurry of reports from corporate America.
Overnight, US aluminum giant Alcoa published a strong set of
first-quarter results.


Anglo-Swiss mining company Xstrata revealed Wednesday that it
would sell its aluminium operations to US private equity group
Apollo Management for 1.15 billion dollars (857 million euros).


Xstrata saw its share price rally 2.10 percent to 2,815 pence in
London.


In Frankfurt, Puma shares leapt 1.88 percent to 350.40 euros
after the German maker of sportsgear hinted that a higher
takeover bid from French luxury goods group PPR was possible.


On Tuesday, PPR, the owner of Gucci and Yves Saint Laurent, said
it was offering 330 euros per share or 5.3 billion euros in all
for Puma after acquiring a stake of 27.1 percent in the sports
shoe maker.


In Paris, PPR shares dived 1.78 percent to 130.66 euros.


Back in London, shares in Alliance Boots soared 1.30 percent to
1,048.5 pence on the prospect of a bidding war for the group, the
biggest pharmacy chain in Europe.


In US deals on Tuesday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average finished
up a modest 0.04 percent at 12,573.85 points, while the Nasdaq
composite closed 0.34 percent higher at 2,477.61 points.


The Standard and Poor's 500 broad-market index ended up 0.26
percent at 1,448.39.


In Asia on Wednesday, Japanese share prices closed almost flat as
worries about domestic corporate capital spending offset a
positive lead from Wall Street, dealers said.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
rose 0.03 percent to finish at 17,670.07 points.


Hong Kong's key Hang Seng Index closed up 0.50 percent at
20,449.43 points as another strong finish on China's A-share
bourses helped the market reverse modest losses earlier due to
profit-taking, dealers said.


Shanghai's benchmark Shanghai Composite Index, which covers A and
B-shares, closed up 1.48 percent at 3,495.22 points.

