

The dollar held steady in Asian trade Monday as the market
digested stronger than expected US housing figures, dealers said.


They said that the yen was supported by the repatriation of funds
as the local fiscal year draws to a close at the end of March,
while many players were reluctant to make large bets ahead of an
upcoming raft of economic data.


The dollar eased to 117.99 yen in Tokyo afternoon trade from
118.05 yen in New York late Friday.


The euro eased to 1.3270 dollars from 1.3282 and to 156.59 yen
from 156.89.


"The dollar eased against the yen but the market mood is that the
dollar is still solid," said Shinji Kobayashi, client manager at
Resona Bank.


"The market remains upbeat about the dollar which is still
getting support from the strong US home sales," he said, adding
that the downward pressure from the repatriation flows should
ease soon.


US home sales rose 3.9 percent in February as the struggling real
estate market showed some signs of a rebound, US industry data
showed Friday.


The National Association of Realtors (NAR) said existing home
sales improved to an annualised pace of 6.69 million, well ahead
of market expectations of a pace of 6.30 million.


The US property market has been struggling as lending rates have
increased and speculators have pulled out of what had been a
sizzling sector.


Market players are waiting for a barrage of US and domestic data,
including fourth-quarter US economic growth on Thursday and
Japanese industrial output, consumer prices and unemployment for
February on Friday.


Dealers are also looking ahead to the key Bank of Japan Tankan
survey which is due on Monday of next week.


"Until we see all those figures, it is difficult to make big
market moves," Kobayashi said.


The dollar firmed to 938.70 South Korean won from 938.65, to
32.03 Thai baht from 31.68 and to 33.08 Taiwan dollars from
33.04.


The US unit eased to 9,115 Indonesian rupiah from 9,127, to
1.5179 Singapore dollars from 1.5191 and to 48.10 Philippine
pesos from 48.19.

