

NATO warplanes called in by the Afghan army bombed and killed 19
militants in southern Afghanistan, taking the toll from a four-
day operation to 99, the defence ministry said Monday.


The 19 were killed in the southern province of Helmand on Sunday,
it said in a statement.


The Afghan army launched the sweep of the Gereshk area of the
province on Thursday, the second day of the Afghan new year.


Operation Nawrozi (New Year) is the first large operation
launched by Afghan forces with NATO air support but not ground
troops.


The fiercest clashes were on Thursday and left 69 militants and
seven policemen dead, Afghan officials said.


The ministry said nine suspected militants were also arrested in
the Gereshk area Sunday, two of them carrying the bodies of their
dead comrades.


The forces also seized light weapons, rocket-propelled grenades,
mortars and land mines.


Helmand has seen some of the biggest attacks on militants this
year, with officials admitting that parts of the province are in
the control of militants allied with traffickers of Afghanistan's
world-topping opium crop.


NATO's International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) launched a
separate operation in the province three weeks ago called
Achilles. It says "several Taliban extremists" have been killed
but will not give numbers.


Taliban are being prevented from moving reinforcements into the
area from bases across the border by increased Pakistan army
patrols, ISAF commander for southern Afghanistan, Major General
Ton van Loon, said Sunday.


Officials say the Afghan-led operation in Helmand shows the
growing capacity of the Afghan security forces which are being
built from scratch with international help costing billions of
dollars.


Afghanistan's army and air force was destroyed during the
1992-1996 civil war that was ended with the take-over of the
extremist Taliban regime, itself toppled in 2001.

