

Libby Lenton fought back to overhaul American Natalie Coughlin
and give Australia a 1-2 finish in the women's 100-metres
butterfly final at the world championships here Monday.


Lenton, renowned for her early sizzling speed, showed the
benefits of her strengthening work under coach Stephan Widmer to
come hard in the final 50m and pip teammate and defending world
champion Jessicah Schipper.


She broke Schipper's 2005 championship record of 57.23seconds by
nine-hundredths of a second with a winning time of 57.15secs.


"It's unbelievable. I'm pretty overwhelmed - but I have to really
pay credit to Jess," Lenton said.


"It's an unbelievable feeling I have. I think things have really
changed for me tonight. You cannot ask for a better start from
me."


Lenton paid tribute to her coach Widmer for developing her into a
stronger finisher than she has been.


"I think that is definitely attributed to the work that I do with
Stephan - he's changed me as an athlete," Lenton said.


Coughlin, who led at the halfway mark, was third in a new
American record time of 57.34secs -- 19-100ths of a second behind
Lenton.


"I'm very, very happy. I swam the new American record. Libby and
Jessicah swim really fast," Coughlin said.


Lenton reversed her loss to Schipper in the event at the 2005
Montreal world championships for her second gold of the meet
after she led off the Australian team to victory over the United
States in the 4x100m freestyle relay on Sunday.


Lenton said she was trying to keep her emotions in check after
gold medals on successive nights.


"I'm really just taking it one step at a time. I'm trying to keep
track on all my emotions that are all coming out now," she said.


Schipper was disappointed in her time, although delighted for her
teammate Lenton.


"My personal best would have been great. I am a little
disappointed with my time," Schipper said.


"I would have liked to have gone a little faster but I won a
silver medal at the world championships."

