

Taylor Woodrow and George Wimpey are to merge to create biggest
British housebuilding group worth about 5.0 billion pounds, they
announced on Monday.


The deal to form Taylor Wimpey, with a market value of 7.4
billion euros or 9.8 billion dollars, would likely catapult the
new group into London's prestigious FTSE 100 index of leading
companies.


"The boards of Taylor Woodrow and George Wimpey are pleased to
announce today that they have reached agreement on the terms of a
recommended all-share merger," the two firms said in a joint
statement.


They added: "The merger will enhance shareholder value by
creating a business with a strong strategic position in both the
UK and the chosen markets in North America."


Both Taylor Woodrow and George Wimpey have significant operations
in the United States which are suffering from tough market
conditions.


However they have both benefited from a buoyant British housing
market, which is growing strongly despite a climate of rising
British interest rates and concern about a possible speculative
bubble.


British rival Persimmon, currently the biggest construction group
on the FTSE, is capitalised at about 4.3 billion pounds.


Taylor Wimpey will have pro forma revenues totalling more than
6.7 billion pounds a year, while the merger will create 70
million pounds of annual synergies for a 60 million pound one-off
cost, the statement added.


The new group would build about 22,000 houses in Britain a year,
and about 9,000 in the United States. It would also have a
combined workforce of 14,000, but analysts warned of job cuts if
the deal is pushed through.


The US property market has been struggling as lending rates have
increased and speculators have pulled out of what had been a
sizzling sector. A main focus has been "subprime" loans, or
mortgages marketed to people with poor credit histories, which
are currently seeing the worst problems.

