

Two Thai police were freed Monday three days after being taken
hostage by a militia from neighbouring Myanmar in an incident
which prompted Thailand to close its border checkpoints in
protest.


The border police officers were released apparently unharmed
after being seized on Friday by the Democratic Karen Buddhist
Army (DKBA), which is allied with Myanmar's ruling junta.


"The two officers were released this morning at a border
checkpoint in Tak province. They are safe," police Colonel Panya
Sukaem told AFP.


DKBA forces crossed into Thailand and seized the officers from
their post in Kanchanaburi province, some 130 kilometres (80
miles) northwest of Bangkok.


Police said the kidnapping was launched apparently because the
DKBA believed Thailand supported a rival Christian faction of
ethnic Karen fighters.


It took place two days after a Thai soldier was killed on March
21 in a skirmish with Myanmar forces in the northern Thai
province of Mae Hong Son.


Thailand on Friday closed its eight border posts with Myanmar in
protest at the incidents, and the foreign ministry also summoned
the ambassador from the military-ruled nation.


"The Thai side asked Myanmar officials to investigate and report
to us on the progress of the investigation as soon as possible,"
a foreign ministry official said.


Thai army officials could not say when the border posts would
reopen.


The DKBA is a small group estimated to have some 150 Buddhist
fighters, which split away from the mainly Christian Karen
National Union (KNU) in 1994.


The KNU is the oldest and largest of the ethnic rebels fighting
Myanmar's military government for autonomy in their region.


Fighting among government troops and the many rebel groups along
the border with Thailand normally intensifies during the December
to May dry season, when it's easier to move forces through the
jungle, and sometimes spills into Thailand.

