

The United States supports recommendations made by the UN envoy
to give surpervised independence to the Serbian province of
Kosovo, US Undersecretary of State Nicholas Burns said Monday.


"We are going to issue today a declaration that says we fully
support Martti Ahtisaari's proposal," he said. "The US does
support the proposal by Ahtisaari to offer independence under
supervision."


Speaking to reporters in Brussels, Burns said he thought a UN
Security Council resolution confirming that future status for
Kosovo could be adopted "in April or May".


He remained cautious when asked about how objections voiced by
Russia, which is a veto-holding permanent member of the Council,
would be handled.


"It will be a very complicated task," he said. "But we will
discuss very openly and thoroughly with Russia."


"NATO will remain in place to provide security to the new state
that will be under supervised independence for some time," he
added.


The Security Council was to formally receive UN envoy Ahtisaari's
proposals for Kosovo later Monday, kicking off what is likely to
be tough discussions between key members.


Kosovo has been administered by the United Nations since 1999,
when a NATO bombing campaigning halted a crackdown on the ethnic
Albanian majority there by former Serbian president Slobodan
Milosevic.


The Albanians are impatient to win independence, but Serbia sees
Kosovo as an integral part of its territory and the region holds
important historic significance for Serbs.


Burns was holding consultations with NATO and EU allies in
Brussels.

