

Australian share prices closed 0.65 percent higher Monday, buoyed
by gains on Wall Street and domestic merger and acquisition
activity as investors pushed stocks to just short of the historic
6,000 points level, dealers said.


Stocks have now recovered much of the ground lost during the
turmoil on the global equity markets seen earlier this month and
are now within sight of the record highs reached just before that
sell-off.


Dealers cautioned that as a result, there could be some
volatility ahead, especially given concerns about problems in the
key US housing market.


The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 rose 38.4 points to 5,990.7 while
the broader All Ordinaries index climbed 37.4 points to 5,970.5.
The S&P/ASX 200 hit a record 6.044.0 points on February 26,
just one day before a massive fall in Shanghai sent global
markets into a frenzied tailspin.


Turnover was 1.61 billion shares worth 5.7 billion dollars (4.6
billion US), with rises outnumbering falls 684 to 549 and 337
stocks unchanged.


AMP Capital Investors head of investment strategy Shane Oliver
said there remained a risk of volatility even though share prices
had rebounded to within sight of the record highs reached in late
February.


"While shares have retraced much of the falls experienced during
the recent correction, there is still a risk of turbulence ahead
in the short term," Oliver said.


"Uncertainty over US and global growth may linger for a while
yet, the crisis in the US mortgage market has further to run
(and) investor sentiment has yet to reach bearish extremes that
normally signal market bottoms."


Stocks were also boosted by merger and acquisition activity
including an announcement by leading retailer Coles detailing
plans for a possible 20 billion dollar sale of the group.


The statement came as the company reported a 3.5 percent rise in
interim profit to 501.3 million dollars. Coles shares advanced
0.15 dollars to a record close of 16.15 dollars.


Global miner BHP Billiton advanced on announcing the completion
of a 2.8 billion US dollar off-market buy-back of 141.1 million
shares.


BHP Billiton jumped 0.84 or 2.88 percent to 30.04 while Rio Tinto
advanced 1.55 or 2.02 percent to 78.40.


Telecom Corp of NZ ended up 0.10 or 2.43 percent at 4.22 after it
sold its Yellow Pages directories business for 2.24 billion New
Zealand dollars (1.6 billion US) to private equity firms CCMP
Capital Asia and Teachers' Private Capital of Canada.


Brambles added 0.08 at 13.63 after the world's largest supplier
of pallets got a lift from it is looking at a major US
acquisition.


National Australia Bank gained 0.25 to close at 40.85,
Commonwealth Bank rose 0.19 to 50.46, Westpac added 0.10 to 26.25
but ANZ eased 0.01 to 29.54.

