

Asian stocks closed firmer Monday, building on last week's solid
gains as better-than-expected US house sale figures eased some
concerns about the US economic outlook, dealers said.


They said that with all eyes on Wall Street for a lead, the US
data was well above forecasts, reassuring investors who had been
spooked earlier this month by a rise in mortgage defaults as the
housing market slowed.


Gains were modest, however, ahead of a series of key indicators
-- US fourth quarter growth due Thursday and a Japanese data
Friday which will be closely scrutinised for confirmation all is
well with the still recovering economy.


Dealers said that with most markets now having recovered from the
turmoil seen earlier this month, investors were hesitant to push
prices too much further without some additional encouragement.


"While shares have retraced much of the falls experienced during
the recent correction, there is still a risk of turbulence ahead
in the short-term," said Shane Oliver of AMP Capital Investors in
Sydney, up 0.65 percent.


At the same time, a spike in oil prices on rising tensions with
Iran over its nuclear programme and its detention of 15 British
servicemen added a note of caution.


Chinese shares -- the cause of the initial global sell-off at the
end of February -- outperformed, continuing to chart record highs
despite Beijing's best efforts to cool a market up some 160
percent since early 2006.


TOKYO: Japanese share prices took a breather after last week's
rebound as investors awaited an upcoming slew of US and domestic
economic data, dealers said.


They said that many of the major players were sitting on the
sidelines ahead of the fiscal year-end book closing at the end of
this week.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's benchmark Nikkei-225 index of leading
shares rose 41.35 points or 0.24 percent to 17,521.96, rising for
a fifth straight trading day. The TOPIX index of all issues on
the Tokyo Stock Exchange's first section eased 0.57 points to
1,741.37.


Gainers beat decliners 959 to 618, with 153 stocks flat.


Volume fell to 1.53 billion shares from 1.90 billion shares
Friday.


"The market is taking a breather following its rebound last
week," said Kazuhiro Takahashi, equities manager at Daiwa
Securities SMBC.


"Investors are also waiting for earnings announcements, scheduled
for release starting mid-April," he added, predicting the Nikkei
would hold within a range of 17,100-17,600 points this week.


The Nikkei index rose for four straight trading days last week as
global bourses bounced back from their recent sell-off.


"The Nikkei has now recovered half of the loss it incurred
(between February 26 and March 5) and investors are looking for
convincing signs that the market is heading for a sustainable
advance," said a trader at a European asset management firm.


Investors are waiting for a barrage of US and domestic data,
including fourth- quarter US economic growth on Thursday and
Japanese industrial output, consumer prices and unemployment for
February on Friday.


HONG KONG: Hong Kong share prices closed 0.37 percent higher as
index heavyweights HSBC and China Mobile were supported ahead of
the expiry of March futures contracts later in the week, dealers
said.


They said property stocks drew some interest on reports of strong
apartment sales over the weekend but the overall gains were
capped as investors await US new home sales data for a further
lead on the problems in the housing sector.


The Hang Seng Index was up 73.21 points at 19,765.85, off a low
of 19,653.73 and a high of 19,819.04. Turnover was 39.86 billion
dollars (5.11 billion US).


"Early gains triggered by futures-related buying were capped in
late trade due to some profit-taking when the benchmark index
approached the 19,800 points level," said Jackson Wong,
investment manager at Tanrich Securities.


The market needs some positive news to gain further momentum, he
said.


Wong said the index may be rangebound in the near term as it will
not be easy for it to regain the 20,000-point level.


Among heavyweights, China Mobile closed up 0.70 dollars at 71.65
dollas and HSBC was up 0.20 at 137.40 while Hutchison Whampoa
shed 0.20 to 75.65.


SEOUL: South Korean share prices closed 0.17 percent higher but
investors were cautious, waiting for key economic data due this
week and the corporate earnings season starting next week,
dealers said.


They said early trade was lifted by easing concerns over a US
housing slump but the market soon lost direction amid a lack of
fresh momentum.


The KOSPI index added 2.39 points at 1,449.77, off a low of
1,444.25 and a high of 1,455.51. Volume was 367 million shares
worth 3 trillion won (3.19 billion dollars). Rises outpaced falls
by 429 to 326.


Foreign investors and corporates were net buyers of shares worth
53.3 billion won and 50.1 billion won while institutions and
retail investors were net sellers for 3.7 billion won and 100.2
billion won.


"The market was largely directionless, with investors turning
more cautious ahead of economic data and corporate results,"
Dongbu Securities analyst Kim Seong-No said.


TAIPEI: Taiwan share prices closed 0.24 percent higher following
significant gains posted on Wall Street last week, dealers said.


Despite some technical pressure, the market still closed in
positive territory, supported by expectations of quarter-end
window dressing.


The weighted index was up 18.50 points at 7,877.82, off a low of
7,853.15 and a high of 7,887.33, on turnover of 104.89 billion
dollars (3.17 billion US). Risers led decliners 626 to 478, with
203 stocks unchanged.


First Taisec Securities manager Stanley Hsu said expectations of
window-dressing before investors close their books for the
quarter were the main theme, leaving the bourse to move in a
narrow range this week.


"Consolidation will likely dominate the market in the near term
unless something decisive is brought to the table."


He added that "investors prefer to be on the sidelines" in the
period just before companies disclose their first-quarter
earnings.


SHANGHAI: Chinese share prices closed sharply higher, adding 1.58
percent for another record finish on continued fresh fund inflows
as telecom, tourist and auto stocks led the gains, dealers said.


Trade was exceptionally heavy again at more than 20 billion
dollars, reflecting interest from people seeking better returns
than on bank desposits and anxious not to miss out on the latest
stock upturn.


Dealers said that after safely negotiating a third interest rate
hike in a row last week, investors are confident and seemingly
unworried that the government may take further measures to cool a
market running at record levels again after a massive fall at the
end of February sparked global turmoil.


The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index, which covers both A- and
B-shares, rose 48.53 points at 3,122.81 on turnover of 109.83
billion yuan (14.17 billion dollars).


The Shanghai A-share Index was up 51.17 points or 1.58 percent to
3,281.44 on turnover of 109.32 billion yuan and the Shenzhen
A-share Index put on 17.63 points or 2.07 percent at 870.79, also
a record, on turnover of 57.30 billion yuan.


"Funds from institutional investors, such as fund management
firms and insurers, continued to rush into the market, in the
wake of its recent strong performance," said Xu Ming, an analyst
at Shiji Investment.


Dealers said the momentum is expected to continue in the short
run.


"The upward trend is likely to be maintained as investors expect
no more major negative news to emerge in the near future after
the interest rate hike announced one week ago," said Zhu Haibin,
an analyst at Everbright Securities.


Telecom companies were buoyed as investors picked up once more on
the 3G (third generation) lead, dealers said.


Recent media reports said China Mobile Communications Corp, the
country's largest mobile operator, has put up a 20 billion yuan
tender for construction of a home-grown 3G TD-SCDMA network in
eight major cities and will begin commercial trials of the
service in October.


SYDNEY: Australian share prices closed 0.65 percent higher,
buoyed by gains on Wall Street and domestic merger and
acquisition activity as investors pushed the market to just short
of the historic 6,000 points level, dealers said.


Stocks have now recovered much of the ground lost during the
turmoil on the global equity markets seen earlier this month and
are now within sight of the record highs reached just before that
sell-off.


Dealers cautioned that as a result, there could be some
volatility ahead, especially given concerns about problems in the
key US housing market.


The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 rose 38.4 points to 5,990.7 while
the broader All Ordinaries index climbed 37.4 points to 5,970.5.
The S&P/ASX 200 hit a record 6.044.0 points on February 26,
just one day before a massive fall in Shanghai sent global
markets into a frenzied tailspin.


Turnover was 1.61 billion shares worth 5.7 billion dollars (4.6
billion US), with rises outnumbering falls 684 to 549 and 337
stocks unchanged.


AMP Capital Investors head of investment strategy Shane Oliver
said there remained a risk of volatility even though share prices
had rebounded to within sight of the record highs reached in late
February.


"While shares have retraced much of the falls experienced during
the recent correction, there is still a risk of turbulence ahead
in the short term," Oliver said.


"Uncertainty over US and global growth may linger for a while
yet, the crisis in the US mortgage market has further to run
(and) investor sentiment has yet to reach bearish extremes that
normally signal market bottoms."


Stocks were also boosted by merger and acquisition activity
including an announcement by leading retailer Coles detailing
plans for a possible 20 billion dollar sale of the group.


SINGAPORE: Singapore share prices closed flat as investors
consolidated positions in a cautious market, with concerns over a
spike in oil prices adding to the weaker tone, dealers said.


The Straits Times Index slipped 1.27 points to 3,204.55 on volume
of 1.40 billion shares worth 1.30 billion dollars (860 million
US). Gainers led losers 360 to 316, with 730 stocks unchanged.


Dealers said investors were cautious of taking aggressive new
positions following a spike in crude oil prices to 2007 highs as
tensions rose over Iran's nuclear programme and its capture of 15
British servicemen.


"With the price of oil having spiked up, that's putting a bit of
pressure on the market," a dealer with a local brokerage said.


Dealers said concerns over a potential economic slowdown in the
US and China also weighed on sentiment ahead of a series of key
data later in the week.


KUALA LUMPUR: Malaysian share prices closed 0.70 percent higher,
led by plantation and property stocks which offset profit-taking
in other sectors, dealers said.


They said the bourse now appears to be in need of fresh factors
going forward after a recent sustained run-up.


The Kuala Lumpur Composite Index was up 8.67 points at 1,244.32
on volume of 1.8 billion shares worth 2.3 billion ringgit (667
million dollars). Gainers led loser 463 to 447.


"The market is beginning to look a little lethargic after an
extended run," said Cheah King Yoong, head of research at SJ
Securities.


"The recent run-up had been sentiment-driven ... so the market
will need fresh leads going forward," he said, adding he expects
the bourse to "take a breather" soon before it resumes its rally.


Cheah cautioned that much could depend on how Iran and the oil
price factors play out.


World oil prices have been driven to their highest levels of the
year so far because of heightened geopolitical tensions in the
Middle East after 15 sailors from a British warship were seized
in the Gulf by Iran.


BANGKOK: Thai share prices closed 0.18 percent higher as
sentiment was upbeat after US investment bank JP Morgan put a
"buy" recommendation on bank, contractor and property stocks,
dealers said.


They said the market also held firm amid hopes that the Bank of
Thailand will likely cut its key interest rate to 4.00 percent
when it holds a rate-setting meeting early next month.


The Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET) composite index gained 1.25
points to 679.04 while the blue-chip SET 50 index rose 1.05
points to 475.84.


The Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET) composite index gained 1.25
points to 679.04 while the blue-chip SET 50 index rose 1.05
points to 475.84.


Losers led gainers 178 to 126, with 134 stocks unchanged on
turnover of 1.2 billion shares worth 9.2 billion baht (264
million dollars).


"Buying sentiment was positive following JP Morgan's report,"
said Wiriya Lappromrattana, referring to the US financial giant's
report last week in which it recommended buying of Thai bank,
contractor and property stocks.


JP Morgan ranked Thailand's stock market the cheapest among 19
emerging bourses including Brazil, India and the Philippines, but
warned that the country's army- backed government was "still
struggling to gain investors' confidence."


Apart from the US report, the market was steady amid expectations
that the central bank would likely slash its key interest rate by
0.50 basis points to 4.00 percent, the third rate cut this year,
when it meets on April 11, she said.


JAKARTA: Indonesian share prices closed 0.43 percent higher, with
blue-chip gains helping offset losses in the broader market,
dealers said.


Miners and plantation stocks posted sharp gains on a steep rise
in key commodities.


The Jakarta Stock Exchange composite index rose 7.757 points at
1,813.718 on volume of 1.88 billion shares worth 2.26 trillion
rupiah (248 million dollars).


Despite the headline index gain, decliners led advancers 84 to
58, with 54 stocks unchanged.


"The market was trading in a tight range during the day, pretty
much in line with other markets in the region," said Oos Rosady,
a dealer with Mandiri Securities.


"But some stocks like Indosat, which have lagged gains in recent
rallies, advanced," he said, adding that the market was
consolidating in the absence of strong leads.


MANILA: Philippine share prices closed 0.63 percent lower as
cautious investors locked in profits while waiting for a fresh
positive lead, dealers said.


The composite index finished 20.01 points lower at 3,150.04 after
trading between 3,146.25 and 3,181.40. Gains and declines were
even at 55 each, with 40 stocks unchanged. Turnover was 6.58
billion shares worth 2.89 billion pesos (60.20 million dollars).


"There are no new positive developments to perk up sentiment and
some investors may be winding down their positions ... ahead of
the Easter break next week," said Lawrence de Leon of Accord
Capital Equities.


"The focus was mainly on the third liners, particularly mining,
and volumes are weak, indicating the lack of interest," he added.


Manila's financial markets are closed on April 5 and 6 for the
annual Easter break, as well as on April 9, a local public
holiday.


WELLINGTON: New Zealand share prices closed 1.00 percent higher
as investors welcomed news that market leader Telecom would
return capital to shareholders after selling its directories
business, dealers said.


The benchmark NZX-50 gross index rose 41.10 points to 4,105.15 on
turnover worth 119.5 million dollars (84.9 million US).


Telecom shares rose 11 cents to 4.79 dollars after announcing it
would sell its Yellow Pages directories business to a private
equity consortium for 2.24 billion dollars.


"People are reasonably happy with the price Telecom got for the
Yellow Pages and are looking forward to the sizeable capital
return ... hinted at," said Richard Leggat of UBS.


MUMBAI: Indian share prices closed 1.22 percent lower as
investors locked-in gains after a sharp rally last week, dealers
said.


They said the markets could weaken further as investors square
positions ahead of the monthly stock futures contract expiry
Thursday.


The 30-share Mumbai stock exchange Sensex index fell 161.61
points at 13,124.32, having risen 6.88 percent last week.


Investors fear that India's central bank could raise rates next
month after India's inflation rate held steady at 6.46 percent on
Friday, suggesting that tighter monetary policy cannot be ruled
out.


"The markets fell as investor appetite waned. We should see a
further sell-off ahead of the derivatives contract expiry," said
Atul Hatwar, a dealer with brokerage Crosseas Securities.


Stock markets will be closed Tuesday due to a Hindu holiday.

