

Hyundai Motor's Indian unit plans to more than double overseas
sales of cars by 2008 to cement its place as the country's
biggest automobile exporter, the company said Monday.


The South Korean automaker, which exported 113,000 made-in-India
Accent and Santro cars last year, expects to ship 300,000 units
by the end of 2008, it said after sending the first consignment
of its Getz model to Europe.


Hyundai Motor India began exports in 1999 when it sold 20 Santro
cars in neighbouring Nepal. Since then it has become India second
biggest car maker behind the local venture of Japan's Suzuki and
the largest exporter.


Hyundai's Indian-built automobiles are now exported to 67
countries spread over Europe, Latin America, the Middle East and
Africa.


"Given Hyundai Motor Company's global strategy to make India an
export hub for small cars, we are shipping the first consignment
for export of the new Getz to Europe," said H.S. Lheem, managing
director of the unit, in a statement received here. "For the
Indian operations, this is a major milestone."


The company plans to ship 40,000 Getz cars overseas in the next
year, boosting the number to 100,000 units by 2008.


Since it was introduced in 2002, the Getz has sold more than
500,000 in Europe, accounting for close to 70 percent of its
total sales worldwide.


Hyundai Motor India is a wholly owned subsidiary of Hyundai
Motor, marketing 16 variants of passenger cars in this country of
1.1 billion people.


The company logged total sales of 299,513 vehicles in 2006, up
18.5 percent.


In the domestic market it clocked growth of 19.1 percent, with
186,174 units, while overseas sales grew 17.4 percent to 113,339
units.


India's car market is forecast to expand 10 percent a year to
reach two million units by 2010 as an economy expanding nine
percent a year boosts the buying power of consumers in the
world's second-most populous nation.


International automakers drove into India after it opened up the
potentially vast market to overseas investment as part of
sweeping reforms launched in 1991 which overturned four decades
of semi-socialist policies.


For decades after independence in 1947 India's roads were
dominated by two ancient models -- the boxy Premier Padmini and
the full-sized Ambassador, still a mainstay among taxi drivers in
many cities.

