

The United Nations added Monday to calls for the Taliban to
release an Afghan journalist captured three weeks ago with an
Italian reporter who was freed in exchange for five Taliban
prisoners.


The Pajhwok Afghan News agency reported meanwhile that a
purported Taliban spokesman had said the group was ready to
negotiate with the government over the release of the journalist
and translator, Ajmal Naqshbandi.


Naqshbandi, 25, was captured in the southern province of Helmand
on March 4 with Italian Daniele Mastrogiacomo -- freed March 19
-- and an Afghan driver who was beheaded after being accused of
being a military spy.


"We call upon those holding him to immediately release him and
respond positively to the calls from his family, journalists and
many other Afghans who have called for his safe return," UN
spokesman Aleem Siddique said.


"Ajmal has no connection with either Afghan or international
military forces," he said.


"We once again repeat that the rights of journalists to go about
their work, free from interference or harm, be recognised and
respected by all."


The government admitted that five Taliban prisoners were released
in exchange for Mastrogiacomo, a secret deal that angered many
Afghans and prompted the United States and other countries to
condemn negotiations with "terrorists."


Pajhwok reported that a purported spokesman for Taliban commander
Mullah Dadullah said the group was ready to hold negotiations
with the government over Naqshbandi but had not been contacted.


The spokesman, Shahabuddin Atal, also accused the government of
attaching more importance to the safety of foreigners than
Afghans.

