

Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas told US Secretary of State
Condoleezza Rice on Monday he wants talks with Israel on the
substance of the peace process, a top aide said.


"President Abbas told the US secretary of state that it is not
enough to Israel to want to talk to us about humanitarian and
security issues," Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erakat told
reporters in Amman.


He was speaking after Abbas and Rice met for over one hour in the
Jordanian capital, for their second encounter in 24 hours, to
discuss efforts to revive stalled Palestinian-Israeli peace
negotiations.


US officials said Rice would return to Jerusalem later Monday
after talks with Jordan's King Abdullah II and unveil at a press
conference a "parallel" diplomatic approach for advancing the
deadlocked peace efforts.


"The political track must go on and must open onto a political
horizon in order to implement US President George W. Bush's view
for a two-state solution," Erakat said.


"It is not logical to limit Palestinian-Israeli meeting to
security and humanitarian issues we must find a political
horizon," Erakat said.


Rice and Abbas also discussed an international "roadmap" for
peace in the Middle East and an Arab initiative that will top the
agenda of this week's Arab summit in Saudi Arabia, Erekat said.


"President Abbas confirmed our commitment to the Arab peace plan
and the secretary of state confirmed that she is not asking for
any amendment to the bid," Erakat said.


Rice "hopes for a mechanism to activate this initiative" which
offers Israel normal ties in return for withdrawal from Arab land
captured in 1967 and the establishment of a Palestinian state, he
added.


Abbas arrived late Sunday in Jordan on his way to Riyadh, to
attend the two-day Arab summit which opens in the Saudi capital
on Wednesday.

