

Romanian Prime Minister Calin Tariceanu said on Monday he would
seek the withdrawal of all Romanian troops from Iraq "by
Christmas" following agreement with his country's allies.


"It is time to bring our troops home. I will do everything in my
power, in accordance with my constitutional duties, to bring them
back by Christmas based on a timeframe agreed upon with our
allies and partners," Tariceanu said.


"I will fight to convince all those who are against our soldiers
dining at home with their families at Christmas," he added.


Tariceanu's National Liberal Party has repeatedly favoured a
withdrawal of troops from Iraq.


Parliament will take the final decision on the matter after the
Supreme Defence Council led by President Traian Basescu makes its
recommendation.


Tariceanu proposed a complete withdrawal of troops last June, a
move which took the president and the US and Britain, Romania's
main allies within the Iraq coalition, by surprise.


The Council rejected the proposal and Defence Minister Teodor
Atanasiu was later forced to resign over the matter.


But on March 14, Basescu said Romania would likely reduce its
Iraq forces by 100 troops, in accordance with Britain's decision
to reduce its presence in the war- ravaged country.


"The mission of the battalion deployed in Basra seems to be
reaching an end this year, and, in accord with our British
allies, we will probably reduce our presence in Iraq by 100 men,"
Basescu said.


"All decisions to reinforce or reduce Romania's participation in
international missions will be taken in accordance with our
commitments" to our allies, he added.


Britain announced in February that it would reduce its troop
level in Iraq from 7,100 to 5,500 over the next few months.


Romania currently has 605 troops in the country, stationed mostly
in southern Talil and Basra under British command.

