

Hong Kong share prices closed 0.37 percent higher Monday as index
heavyweights HSBC and China Mobile were supported ahead of the
expiry of March futures contracts later in the week, dealers
said.


They said property stocks drew some interest on reports of strong
apartment sales over the weekend but the overall gains were
capped as investors await US new home sales data for a further
lead on the problems in the housing sector.


The Hang Seng Index was up 73.21 points at 19,765.85, off a low
of 19,653.73 and a high of 19,819.04. Turnover was 39.86 billion
dollars (5.11 billion US).


"Early gains triggered by futures-related buying were capped in
late trade due to some profit-taking when the benchmark index
approached the 19,800 points level," said Jackson Wong,
investment manager at Tanrich Securities.


The market needs some positive news to gain further momentum, he
said.


Wong said the index may be rangebound in the near term as it will
not be easy for it to regain the 20,000-point level.


Among heavyweights, China Mobile closed up 0.70 dollars at 71.65
dollas and HSBC was up 0.20 at 137.40 while Hutchison Whampoa
shed 0.20 to 75.65.


Wong noted that some property stocks were boosted after reports
of strong apartment sales over the weekend.


Cheung Kong was up 0.45 at 98.20 while Sun Hung Kai Properties
finished down 0.05 at 91.00 after early gains.


The property sub-index closed up 85.49 points or 0.36 percent at
23,720.01.


China Telecom was up 0.01 at 3.67 after reporting a net profit of
27.14 billion yuan (3.5 billion US) for 2006, little changed from
a year earlier.


Hang Seng Bank lost 0.30 at 109.90 and BOC Hong Kong was down
0.24 at 19.04.


PetroChina was up 0.16 at 8.94, Sinopec gained 0.07 to 6.55 and
CNOOC added 0.06 at 6.53 on the back of firmer oil prices.

