

Emergency-ruled Bangladesh marked its 36th independence day
Monday with tight security over fears of bomb attacks in protest
at the impending execution of six Islamic militants.


Thousands of police and soldiers were deployed at checkpoints
across the country and the capital Dhaka over fears of attacks by
a banned Islamist group.


"We have had reports of a threat by JMB (Jamayetul Mujahideen
Bangladesh) and so to avoid any incident we have deployed 5,500
police in Dhaka city to strengthen security," Dhaka police
commissioner Naim Ahmed told AFP.


Hundreds more police were guarding key installations such as
power plants, he said.


President Iajuddin Ahmed and interim government chief Fakhruddin
Ahmed marked the day by laying wreaths at the national war
memorial at sunrise, said the president's assistant press
secretary, Mir Mohammad Aslam Uddin.


They also attended an independence day parade at the national
parade ground, marking the creation of Bangladesh -- formerly
called East Pakistan -- from Pakistan in 1971 after a nine-month
war.


Six JMB leaders are due to be hanged by April 19 for their part
in the killing of two judges in November 2005.


The six are also blamed for masterminding a string of deadly bomb
attacks as part of a campaign to have strict Islamic law imposed
in the Muslim-majority but secular country of 144 million people.


At least 28 people died in the bombings which began on August 17,
2005, when more than 400 small bombs exploded almost
simultaneously across the country.


Bangladesh has been under emergency rule since January, when
Iajuddin Ahmed stepped down as head of the caretaker government
and cancelled disputed elections. He was replaced by Fakhruddin
Ahmed, who leads a new military-backed interim government.

