

Some 100 AIDS activists on Monday rallied outside the Bangkok
office of US pharmaceutical giant Abbott Laboratories over its
decision to withdraw new medicines from Thailand amid a generic
drugs row.


"We urge Abbott to reconsider the decision. The company should
not limit access to new drugs in Thailand," said Brigitte Tenni,
an activist from Thai Network of People Living with HIV/AIDS.


The demonstrators, including AIDS patients, delivered a protest
letter to an Abbott official, but she declined to speak to the
crowd, Tenni said.


"Unless Abbott reverses the decision, we will call for a global
boycott of its products," the AIDS activist said. A spokeswoman
for Abbott in Bangkok declined to comment on the protest.


The Chicago-based pharmaceutical giant is mired in a row with
Thailand after the health ministry decided in January to approve
generic versions of Abbott's anti- AIDS drug Kaletra and the
blockbuster heart drug Plavix.


Angered by the ministry's move, Abbott announced this month it
would stop selling new drugs to Thailand -- including an improved
version of Kaletra.


Thailand, for its part, has defended its decision to issue so-
called "compulsory licences" for high-priced medications, saying
the government is trying to provide more access to vital drugs
for the nation's poor.


HIV/AIDS is Thailand's top cause of death, followed by heart
disease, the ministry said, adding that some 500,000 Thais are
infected with HIV, but fewer than 10 percent of them can afford
to buy Kaletra.


Under the generic programme, treatment with Kaletra is expected
to drop from 11,580 baht (330 dollars) per month to 4,000 baht
per month, according to charity Doctors Without Borders (MSF).


Apart from Kaletra, Thailand also approved copycat versions of
another anti-AIDS drug, Efavirenz.

