

Malaysia and Singapore have approved construction of a bullet
train linking the two countries, to be built by Malaysian
conglomerate YTL Corporation, according to a report Monday.


The New Straits Times, citing an unnamed official from YTL, said
the high-speed train would cost some 8.1 billion ringgit (2.34
billion dollars) and that design plans and studies were underway.


"The governments of Malaysia and Singapore have given the thumbs
up for the bullet train project and YTL has started working out
the design and track laying plan," the official was quoted as
saying by the newspaper.


The plan "will include a prototype design quite similar to bullet
trains in Japan and Taiwan, to submit to the respective agencies
for approval in the next four to six months," the official said.


YTL Corp, which has property, utility and transport concerns,
floated the proposal in July last year for the bullet train which
will allow passengers to travel from Malaysia's capital Kuala
Lumpur to Singapore in 90 minutes.


The official said YTL would be working off its prototype for the
high-speed Express Rail Link (ERL) train from Kuala Lumpur to
Malaysia's international airport, as well as working with
Germany's Siemens AG.


YTL has a 50 percent stake in Express Rail Link.


"YTL plans to use the prototype of its ERL project and to draw
the expertise of Siemens AG, Europe's largest engineering
company, for the bullet train project," the official said.


YTL and Siemens are expected to commence work on the project by
the end of 2007, with completion seen at end-2009, according to
the newspaper.


YTL officials could not immediately be reached for comment.


Currently, there is a rail service to Singapore but it takes
about seven hours while flights between the countries are pricey.


Malaysia and Singapore are also linked by a causeway which is
routinely subject to heavy traffic.

