

Sri Lanka launched two investigations into security lapses that
led to the first ever Tamil Tiger air raid against the island's
main military base, where three airmen were killed and 16
wounded, officials said.


The air force appointed a five-member team to probe lapses that
led to the night attack against the highly-guarded Katunayake
airbase where the military maintains its fleet of supersonic jet
fighters.


"The police, too, launched an investigation because they were the
first to pass on information about the sighting of two
unidentified aircraft an hour before the attack," a top police
source said.


He said police were trying to investigate what action was taken
by the military after the police Special Task Force commandos
alerted the airforce when the rebel craft passed Ganeshapuram, in
Vavuniya district.


From the first sighting, the rebels travelled for about an hour
covering a stretch of at least 200 kilometers (125 miles) in two
light fixed-wing aircraft before hitting the airbase.


Tiger pictures showed that four bombs were mounted on each
fuselage.


The Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) released pictures of
seven "Air Tiger" guerrillas dressed in light blue camouflage
uniform posing for pictures with Tiger supremo Velupillai
Prabhakaran, 52.


The pictures released by the Tigers showed a partial section an
aircraft, which indicated the plane was a single-engine,
propeller-driven light aircraft.


Monday's attack was the second against the Katunayake airbase by
the Tigers in six years.


A group of suicide bombers infiltrated the base in July 2001 and
destroyed a fleet of  parked military aircraft, then crossed over
to the adjoining international airport and destroyed six civilian
jets parked there.

