

Indonesia's health minister called Monday for new rules to govern
the development of human vaccines against bird flu to ensure
poorer nations can afford them.


Siti Fadilah Supari made the call at a World Health Organisation
(WHO) bird flu meeting that aims to resolve a dispute with
Indonesia, the country worst-hit by the disease, over sharing
virus samples for key tests.


"The existing process in which the WHO and its affiliates share
virus samples with private companies, without collaboration with
the countries from which virus samples originate, is unacceptable
for developing countries," she said.


"I think the system should be improved," she said. She announced
in February that Indonesia had stopped sending samples to the WHO
over concerns they would be used to develop pricey vaccines
beyond poorer countries' budgets.


Indonesia has asked for a legal guarantee that samples sent to
international WHO reference laboratories for tests -- a process
said to be key in fighting human flu -- will not be exploited for
profit by drugs firms.


It has already signed a cooperation agreement with US company
Baxter International to jointly develop a human bird flu vaccine
in a bid to ensure it benefits from a future treatment.


Some 16 nations are attending the WHO meeting in Indonesia's
capital Jakarta to discuss "responsible practices" for sharing
virus samples.


Indonesia has suffered 66 human deaths from bird flu, the world's
highest toll, and 86 confirmed cases. The WHO says there have
been 281 cases and 169 deaths worldwide, mostly in Southeast
Asia.


Scientists fear the H5N1 bird flu strain could mutate into a form
easily spread among humans, leading to a global pandemic with the
potential to kill millions.

