

Korean Park Tae-hwan's victory in the 400-metres freestyle was a
wake-up call for world and Olympic champion Grant Hackett ahead
of the Beijing Games, swimming great Kieren Perkins said Monday.


Seventeen-year-old Park stormed home to claim South Korea's first
world swimming title here Sunday and confirm he will be a big
threat to the Australian at the Olympics next year.


Hackett will be bidding for his third consecutive Olympic 1500m
freestyle title.


"If anything this is the perfect time for this to be happening
because he (Hackett) still has another 18 months to Beijing,"
two-time 1500m Olympic champion Perkins said. "And because the
threat is real.


"People have been talking about these guys for probably the last
18 months to two years but talking is very different to seeing
these guys are there and they are challenging and they are not
going to be easy to beat.


"This could really help reinvigorate Grant and help him to
refocus and help him to find the motivation to really start
working at his best again.


"In a lot of ways this is the perfect time for this challenge to
come up."


Perkins said he rated Hackett as the favourite to win in Beijing
ahead of Sunday's world 1500m final in Melbourne.


But Park was a serious threat because of his speed.


"I think Park is really quite extraordinary being the first
Korean gold world medallist and his swim was a really good
intelligent swim," Perkins said.


"It was not outstandingly fast but he did enough to win the race.
If I was Grant I am sure I would be a little bit concerned.


"Over the last three or four hundred metres of the 1500 if you
are not a long way in front of this guy he is going to run you
down."

