

A European Union team is due in the Philippines Monday to help
investigations into a spate of political murders blamed by a UN
envoy on members of the military, the EU ambassador said.


Forensics and witness-protection experts as well as police have
been sent after a government request last month, said Alistair
MacDonald, the EU's head of delegation here.


"The mission will proceed very quickly. We expect them shortly,"
MacDonald told reporters.


"This is a very technical issue. This is an expert mission to
identify needs of support. It's not an investigation. We will
bring experts in the field to identify the kind of support we can
provide," he added.


MacDonald said it was the Philippine government's responsibility
to find the killers and protect its citizens.


"First, stop the killings and second investigate and identify and
bring to justice those who have been carrying them out,"
MacDonald said.


Local human rights group Karapatan has documented more than 800
murders of political activists, church workers, members of the
judiciary and media since President Gloria Arroyo assumed power
in 2001.


The group said the military was responsible for the killings, a
statement which alarmed the international community.


In February Philip Alston, the UN special rapporteur on
extrajudicial killings, interviewed victims' families and
concluded that certain elements of the military were behind the
attacks.


He said the culture of impunity has also scared witnesses from
giving evidence, and called on Arroyo to do more to stop the
murders.


Arroyo in response ordered the creation of special courts to
handle the cases and told military chiefs to investigate its
ranks.


The military has denied any involvement and blamed communist
guerrillas for the deaths.

