

South Korean scientists who created the world's first cloned dog
said Monday they have cloned two females of an endangered species
of wolf.


A team led by Lee Byung-Chun and Shin Nam-Shik, veterinary
professors at Seoul National University, said the cloned wolves
were born in October 2005.


"They were the world's first cloned wolves but we decided to
disclose our achievement today," Shin told AFP. "They are healthy
and growing well."


The latest achievement will be published in the international
journal Cloning and Stem Cells, he said.


Lee's team created the world's first cloned dog, Snuppy, in early
2005 under the stewardship of now-disgraced cloning expert Hwang
Woo-Suk. So far, the team has cloned one male and three female
Afghan hounds.


"The paper lists Hwang as one of the co-authors because he was
responsible for the research at the beginning," Shin said.


Lee's team sent a related research paper to scientific journals
last year but the feat was largely dismissed after much of
Hwang's research work was proved to be bogus.


Hwang was hailed as a national hero until a university inquiry
ruled that some of his work on cloning embryonic human stem cells
was fake. He is now on trial for fraud, embezzlement, ethical
breaches and other charges but has insisted he can still prove he
created the first cloned human stem cells.


The wolf clones "may provide a breathrough in increasing the
number of endangered species," Shin said.


Like dogs, wolves are one of the most difficult animals to
reproduce, he said.


The wolves, named Snuwolf (Seoul National University wolf) and
Snuwolffy, were created by taking the somatic cell from a wolf
bred at a zoo in southern Seoul. Fertilised eggs were then
transplanted into female dogs that acted as surrogate mothers.

