

Myanmar on Monday refuted claims of torture and ill-treatment in
its prisons and labour camps, although the military government
has refused to allow Red Cross visits for more than a year.


Myanmar's police chief, Major General Khin Yi, insisted inmates
were well-fed and allowed exercise at the 42 prisons and 91
labour camps in the military-run country.


He said the Prison's Department was putting "to good use the idle
labour of prisoners in productive programmes."


The authorities were in fact turning inmates "into productive
people once they are released, to be able to support the country
one way or another," Khin Yi said.


The International Committee of the Red Cross says it has not been
allowed to visit Myanmar's prisons since December 2005, and that
its other work in the country has practically ground to a halt.


Rights groups like Amnesty International have repeatedly accused
the junta of torture and harsh conditions in its prisons, saying
inmates have been brutalised during interrogations and were
sometimes punished by being forced into cages meant for military
dogs.


Khin Yi denied the allegations, saying: "Any evidence on
individuals who have interacted harshly, suppressed rudely and
engaged in acts of torture against prisoners ... can be reported
to responsible authorities."


He said in a statement released to foreign reporters that inmates
were given meals every day, were allowed to exercise for 30
minutes each morning, and were allowed to worship in any faith
they wished.


"Although there are unfounded allegations of prisoners having to
sleep on concrete floors, we find that all prison quarters are
inlaid with wooden covering and for prisons in cooler regions,
adequate blankets are being issued," he said.


The remarks came during the first press conference for
international media held in the junta's new administrative
capital, Naypyidaw, in the mountains of central Myanmar, where
the government and military moved their offices one year ago.

