

Police have launched a formal investigation into the brandishing
of a racist banner by home fans during Saturday's Euro 2008
qualifier against France, the Lithuanian Football Federation said
Monday.


"The police have started an investigation to find out who is
responsible for the incident," Vaidotas Rastenis, the
federation's deputy spokesman, told AFP.


"The federation in turn is to release a statement for the fans
related to the incident," he added.


At Saturday's match in the Lithuanian city of Kaunas, home fans
displayed a large banner showing an outline map of Africa in the
blue, white and red colours of France's national flag, emblazoned
with the words: "Welcome to Europe".


The banner appeared to be aimed at France's black players, who
make up the majority of the team.


Lithuanian federation chief Liutauras Varanvicius slammed the
fans' behaviour, saying their actions could bring punishment for
the Lithuanian team.


"Such an action is a crime. We now should expect heavy sanctions
from UEFA," Varanavicius said in an interview with the daily
newspapers Kauno Diena.


Rastenis, meanwhile, said the federation had not yet received any
official contact related to the incident from UEFA.


European football's governing body has been cracking down hard on
stadium racism in recent years, and a string of national teams
have faced sanctions including heavy fines and being forced to
play matches behind closed doors.


UEFA is "most likely to consider all the incidents after
Wednesday's round," Rastenis said.


France managed an unconvincing 1-0 win over their hosts in
Saturday's Group B match.


Lithuania are away to Ukraine for Wednesday's qualifier, while
France's next match is on June 6, at home to Ukraine.

