

New Zealand's largest listed company Telecom Corp said Monday it
would sell its Yellow Pages directories business for 2.24 billion
dollars (1.6 billion US) to a private equity consortium.


The business was bought by buyout firm CCMP Capital and Teachers'
Private Capital, the private investment arm of the Ontario
Teachers' Pension Plan.


The sale had been foreshadowed by the company with bids closing
last week.


Yellow Pages publishes telephone directories and their online
equivalents in New Zealand, with annual revenues of around 250
million dollars and 600 employees.


The price amounted to 13.6 times earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) and was in line with
expectations near the end of the sale process, analysts said.


Telecom, New Zealand's dominant telecommunications provider,
confirmed it would return at least some of the sale proceeds to
shareholders.


"You are looking at a sizeable return of capital that needs to be
planned carefully," Telecom chief financial officer Marko
Bogoievski said.


But chief executive Theresa Gattung, who recently announced she
would leave the company at the end of June, indicated the company
would also need some of the money for upcoming major operational
changes.


Analysts say the company had earmarked about one billion dollars
for capital spending projects.


The company said it would make no announcement on what it would
do with the proceeds until its quarterly results announcement in
early May.


Some analysts have said the company should have kept the
profitable business but Telecom chairman Wayne Boyd described the
sale as "a significant outcome for Telecom shareholders.


"The board is satisfied that the transaction fairly reflects the
underlying value of the business," Boyd said.


Telecom shares closed 11 cents higher at 4.79 dollars on the New
Zealand Stock Exchange as shareholders welcomed the prospect of a
special payout.

