

The US Treasury's point man on financial crime met Chinese
officials on Monday in hopes of resolving a banking dispute that
has stalled North Korean nuclear disarmament talks, his
spokeswoman said.


Daniel Glaser, the deputy assistant secretary for terrorist
financing and financial crimes, and other US officials met early
Monday with Chinese foreign ministry representatives, spokeswoman
Molly Millerwise told AFP.


Glaser's Beijing visit is aimed at clearing obstacles blocking
the transfer of 25 million dollars of North Korean funds frozen
in Macau's Banco Delta Asia since 2005, when Washington
effectively blacklisted the bank.


The latest round of six-party talks -- involving the two Koreas,
the United States, China, Japan and Russia -- ended abruptly in
Beijing last week when Pyongyang refused to negotiate further
until it received the cash.


"The talks focused on solutions to the implementation matters and
our common interest in addressing this issue as quickly as
possible," Millerwise said, without providing further details.


The return of the money was part of a six-party agreement reached
last month under which North Korea was to dismantle its nuclear
weapons programme in return for economic and energy aid.


However, the designated recipient, state-owned Bank of China, has
allegedly refused to accept the money for fear the transaction
may hurt its credit rating.


Glaser said earlier that authorities in Macau and Beijing had
made clear that they wanted to ensure any transfer of the money
was "consistent with their own laws and with their international
obligations."


"We are bringing Treasury expertise to help the Macanese and
Chinese wade through some of these implementation issues," he
said in a statement.


The United States effectively blacklisted Banco Delta Asia on
suspicion it was handling the proceeds of North Korean
counterfeiting and money-laundering, but Washington has since
cleared the way for the release of the funds.

