

The US multinational bank Citigroup may cut 15,000 jobs
throughout the world under a restructuring plan to rationalise
and reduce overheads, the European edition of the Wall Street
Journal reported on Monday.


The plan would generate a restructuring charge of 1.0 billion
dollars, the newspaper said.


The group was working on cutting its workforce of 327,000 by at
least 5.0 percent. One method being considered was the non-
replacement of 30,000 to 50,000 people who left the group each
year.


The report said: "The stakes are high for Citigroup chief
executive Charles Prince as impatience has been mounting inside
and outside the company about its fast-rising expenses, sagging
profit and languishing stock price."


Among problems identified by the board were an excessive number
of levels in the hierarchy and excessive fixed costs owing to a
multiplication of technologies and arrangements for administering
transactions.


The group was also considering improving use of its property
assets which might involve a move from expensive sites in New
York City, for example, to areas where property prices were
lower.


In 2006, the group's operating costs had risen by 15 percent to
52 billion dollars. The report said that investors and analysts
expected the company to reduce this by 2.0 billion dollars per
year.


The report commented that Citigroup was considered a possible
bidder for Dutch bank ABN Amro, the target of bid interest by
Barclays of Britain.

