

Britain voiced hope on Monday that unprecedented talks between
Northern Ireland's main rival leaders could strike a last-ditch
deal to secure self-rule in the province, ahead of a midnight
deadline.


But Northern Ireland Secretary Peter Hain -- who signed an order
at the weekend restoring power to Belfast despite the last-minute
standoff -- also reiterated that Britain is ready to return power
to London if there is no deal.


Sources said rival Catholic- and Protestant-backed leaders Gerry
Adams and Ian Paisley were to meet during the day, to agree a
date for restoring full power- sharing.


"If the meeting between Ian Paisley and Gerry Adams goes ahead
then it is quite extraordinary .. If after the last 40 years and
more they can talk, then anything and everything is possible,"
Hain told BBC's Radio Four.


If the two men can strike a deal before the midnight (2300 GMT)
deadline "we are in entirely new territory which makes the
prospect of devolution and stable devolved government much more
likely," he added.


On Saturday the DUP, which favours remaining part of Britain,
agreed to form an executive with Adams' Sinn Fein, which wants
union with the Republic of Ireland.


However, the DUP wants to delay devolution by six weeks until May
to overcome outstanding hurdles.


On Sunday Hain signed an order restoring devolved powers to the
Northern Ireland Assembly, in which the DUP and Sinn Fein
dominate after elections earlier this month, to allow the parties
to try to form an executive.


But the British minister warned on Monday that, if there is no
deal, London remains ready to see power return to London.


"If if doesn't happen today, then the dissolution follows at one
minute past midnight or at least tomorrow," he said.

