

It may not be one of life's biggest dilemmas, but it's certainly
one of the most common.


Whether to bite the bullet and sling wilting produce and two-day
old fish in the garbage, or hope for the best and throw it in the
pan.


In many cases it's a judgement call, but US researchers announced
Sunday that they have come up with a tool that could take the
guesswork, and the angst, out of the decision-making process.


The tool is a disposable dipstick that can detect whether a food
is still safe to eat or whether it's a health hazard that could
lead to a case of food poisoning.


In laboratory tests, the device had a 90 percent accuracy rate.


"It has the potential to change the way individuals think about
the quality of their food and greatly impact public health," said
John Lavigne, an assistant professor in the department of
chemistry and biochemistry at the University of South Carolina in
Columbia.


The dipstick is made of special polymers or synthetic materials
that change colour in the presence of chemicals formed by
disease-causing bacteria.


These chemicals are known as nonvolatile biogenic amines and are
generated during the bacterial decay of food proteins and provide
an indirect measurement of the extent of food spoilage, the
researchers said in a paper presented at a national meeting of
the American Chemical Society here.


The polymers even change colour to reflect the level of amines
and food spoilage.


In laboratory tests on fresh salmon, fresh tuna and canned tuna,
the dipstick changed from a dark purple to a yellow in the
presence of badly spoiled fish, and dark purple to a reddish
colour in the presence of mildly spoiled fish.


The researchers plan further tests with vegetables, fruit and
meat.


Preliminary testing shows that the dipsticks are sensitive to
even small amounts of protein decay caused by bacterial activity,
Lavigne said.


The hope is to market the dipstick as a test kit that consumers
could use at home or in restaurants.

