

The world's biggest bank Citigroup on Monday defended itself
against a charge of insider trading in a case which could
influence how investment banks around the world deal in shares.


Citigroup's Australian operation has been accused by the
country's corporate regulator of insider trading and failing to
manage a conflict of interest over the trade of stock in
logistics company Patrick Corp in August 2005.


At the same time, a separate arm of Citigroup was advising
another company, Toll Holdings Ltd, about a hostile multi-million
dollar takeover of Patrick.


The Australian Securities and Investment Commission (ASIC) told
the Federal Court in Sydney that the allegations against
Citigroup were not of the worst kind.


However, Citigroup should have sought permission to trade shares
in Patrick while it remained an advisor to Toll, counsel Brett
Walker said.


Citigroup lawyer Allan Myers denied that the bank had any
conflict of interest. The bank's traders did not know Citigroup's
private arm was advising Toll on the Patrick takeover bid at the
time, he said.


"The case being advanced by ASIC is utterly hopeless," he told
the court, Australian Associated Press reported.


The Australian regulator has alleged that Citigroup's internal
barriers to information -- so-called "Chinese walls" -- were
inadequate to prevent insider trading.


It has alleged that these "Chinese walls" must have broken down
because on August 19, 2005 Citigroup proprietary traders bought
heavily in Patrick -- the day before Toll's bid takeover was
announced.


If found guilty of the civil charges, Citigroup faces a fine of
up to one million dollars (805,000 US dollars).

