

Sudanese President Omar al-Beshir refused Monday to have a top
official suspected by the International Criminal Court of Darfur
war crimes questioned or sacked, in a new tirade against the
tribunal.


Ahmed Haroun, the current secretary of state for humanitarian
affairs, "will not resign or be fired and will not be
interrogated," Beshir told the independent daily Al-Sudani.


The president's remarks came after last week's announcement by
Sudan's general prosecutor that Haroun would be questioned over
crimes in the troubled western Sudanese region, despite having
been earlier cleared of any wrongdoing by the Sudanese judiciary.


"The former secretary of state for interior was only performing
his duty to defend the citizens and their property from the
aggressors at the time of the events (in 2003-2004)," Beshir
said.


Sudanese Foreign Minister Lam Akol echoed the president's
comments at an Arab ministers' meeting in Riyadh.


"The international tribunal has no right to put any Sudanese
citizen on trial," Akol said in a speech.


"Sudan's position is to not hand over any Sudanese citizen to a
non-Sudanese party, even if he is one of those who carry arms
against the government."


In February, ICC prosecutor Luis-Moreno Ocampo accused Haroun and
a local militia leader of 51 crimes against humanity and war
crimes -- including murder, torture and mass rape.


Khartoum reacted to the ICC's move by insisting that its
judiciary was fully competent to handle the cases, rejecting the
legitimacy of any foreign court to try Sudanese nationals.


Beshir described the ICC's decision as "cheap political
bargaining and a way to impose UN Security council resolutions on
Sudan."


He said cooperating with the ICC would amount to "helping the
enemy to dismantle the country and to hit at its stability."


The United Nations has sought to deploy a peacekeeping force to
take over from an embattled African Union force but Beshir has
consistently rejected such a move.


According to the United Nations, at least 200,00O people have
died and more than two million been displaced since the conflict
erupted in Darfur in February 2003. Some sources say the death
toll is much higher.

