

The head of the Church of England said Monday that it should
consider paying reparations for its role in the slave trade.


But Archbishop of Canterbury Rowan Williams, also the leader of
the world's Anglicans, said the mechanics of paying financial
compensation could be complex.


"I haven't got a quick solution to that. I think we need to be
asking the question and working at it. That, I think, we're
beginning to do," he told BBC radio.


The Church of England issued an apology last year for its
involvement in slavery.


The Church owned slaves and received compensation when they were
emancipated -- in one case in 1833, the bishop of Exeter and
three colleagues received nearly 13,000 pounds for the loss of
665 slaves.


Williams said there could be difficulties around deciding whom to
make any reparations to.


"Exactly where does it go? And exactly how does it differ from
the various ways in which we try to interact now with the effects
of that in terms of aid and development and so forth?" he
wondered.


On Saturday, Williams and the Archbishop of York, John Sentamu,
led more than 1,000 people through the streets of London to mark
the 200th anniversary of the abolition of the slave trade.


The Abolition of the Slave Trade Act was passed on March 25,
1807, imposing a 100-pound fine for every slave found aboard a
British ship.


The 1833 Slavery Abolition Act outlawed slavery itself throughout
the British Empire. However, some slaves did not gain their final
freedom until 1838.


Prime Minister Tony Blair has expressed "deep sorrow" for
Britain's involvement in the slave trade but stopped short of a
full apology.

