

Muslim-majority Indonesia agreed to further UN sanctions against
Iran over its disputed atomic program because they promote the
goal of a nuclear weapons-free Middle East, an official said
Monday.


"Israel is the only country in the Middle East which possesses
nuclear weapons," Indonesia's Foreign Minister Hassan Wirajuda
said. "We are giving our support to implement a nuclear weapons-
free zone in this area."


A clause which emphasised that resolving the Iranian nuclear
issue would help to realise "the objective of a Middle East free
of weapons of mass destruction" was included in the sanctions
resolution at the request of Indonesia and Qatar.


"The UN resolution ... introduced our proposition of a nuclear
weapons-free zone in the Middle East, which is supported by
Arabic countries," Wirajuda said.


Some commentators have criticised Indonesia for backing the
sanctions because its stance could diminish its standing among
Muslim nations.


The resolution was passed unanimously Saturday, after days of
hard bargaining by the security council's 15 members. Indonesia
currently holds one of the council's rotating seats.


The sanctions block all Iranian arms exports and freeze the
overseas assets of 28 additional officials and institutions
linked to Iran's nuclear and ballistic missile programmes.


They also restrict financial aid or loans to Tehran, and set a
fresh 60-day deadline for Iran to comply with UN demands or face
"further appropriate measures."


Iran reacted angrily, saying it would restrict its cooperation
with the UN nuclear watchdog in retaliation.

