

The dollar rose against the euro and the yen on Monday as dealers
prepared for further data on the troubled US property market.


The euro slid to 1.3261 dollars in early European trading, from
1.3282 dollars late in New York on Friday.


The dollar climbed to 118.20 yen in European trade, from 118.05
yen late on Friday.


On the economic data front, new US home sales figures for
February are due later Monday. They are forecast to show a
rebound to 993,000 units, after a hefty 16.6 percent decline in
the previous month.


"Today's new home sales, which are seen rebounding, can see an FX
(foreign exchange market) reaction either way, though we do not
see much more US dollar upside from current levels," said
Commerzbank analyst Gavin Friend.


The US property market has been struggling as lending rates have
increased and speculators have pulled out of what had been a
sizzling sector. A main focus has been "subprime" loans, or
mortgages marketed to people with poor credit histories, which
are currently seeing the worst problems.


However, before the weekend, the dollar drew comfort from
stronger than expected US housing figures.


The greenback had hit a two-year low against the euro last week,
at 1.3411 dollars, but Friday's release helped the US unit claw
back ground.


US home sales rose 3.9 percent in February as the struggling real
estate market showed some signs of a rebound, US industry data
showed Friday.


The National Association of Realtors (NAR) said existing home
sales improved to an annualised pace of 6.69 million, well ahead
of market expectations of a pace of 6.30 million.


Friend added: "Though we remain sceptical, last week's US housing
data shows signs of stabilisation ... the headline  numbers have
calmed broader market concern and allowed the dollar to claw back
some of its recent losses."


The euro was changing hands at 1.3261 dollars, against 1.3282
dollars on Friday, 156.76 yen (156.89), 0.6768 pounds (0.6775)
and 1.6194 Swiss francs (1.6192).


The dollar stood at 118.20 yen (118.05) and 1.2212 Swiss francs
(1.2200).


The pound was being traded at 1.9598 dollars (1.9618).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold rose to 659.40
dollars per ounce, from 656.20 dollars late on Friday.

