

The German press on Monday hailed the party thrown here by
Chancellor Angela Merkel to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the
EU's founding, but said the hard work on relaunching a treaty for
the bloc had just begun.


The 27 leaders of the European Union who gathered for a weekend
of celebrations in the German capital endorsed a manifesto on the
values and goals of the union and agreed to replace a rejected
constitution with a new treaty by 2009.


The conservative Die Welt newspaper said Merkel had again proved
her skills at being able to hold together a fractious bloc, but
her real challenge was finding a replacement for the constitution
rejected by Dutch and French voters in referendums in 2005.


"The chances are currently better than they have been for a long
time. However, it is by no means certain that Merkel will
succeed," the paper said in an editorial.


"Poland, France and especially Britain remain uncertain partners.
The second half of her (EU) presidency is the real test."


Germany holds the rotating EU presidency until the end of June.


The centre-left Tagesspiegel daily said the declaration adopted
at the weekend was "a minimal consensus, no more and no less."


"She will have to work quietly until the end of the German
presidency to convince the sceptics that holding onto the
substance of the constitution is worthwhile," it said.


The Handelsblatt economic daily said that doubts expressed by
Czech President Vaclav Klaus and his Polish counterpart Lech
Kaczynski about meeting the 2009 deadline in the declaration did
not bode well for Germany's ambitions to impose a timetable on
the process.


"A glance at the faces of Klaus and Kaczynski makes it clear how
difficult it will be for Merkel to commit the 27 member states to
a timetable by the end of June," it said.

