

The outgoing US ambassador to Iraq said on Monday that American
officials have held talks with insurgent-linked groups in a bid
to isolate Al-Qaeda and bring rebels into the political process.


"We have talked to groups who have not participated in the
political process, who have ties with insurgent groups, who are
reconciliable," Zalmay Khalilzad told a farewell news conference
in Baghdad.


"These are groups who resisted the democratic change," he said.
"It is our goal to reconcile and embrace the new Iraq."


"The government of Iraq, the (US) embassy people, military
officials have met on several occasions. We have had discussions
with several groups. It's part of the reconciliation programme.
They are continuing to talk as to how to separate more and more
groups from Al-Qaeda. The efforts to derail Al-Qaeda."


Announcing that Al-Qaeda, Sunni radicals who have waged a brutal
campaign to impose their brand of Islamic fundamentalism in Iraq,
had "declared war" on both Sunnis and Shiites, he said the focus
was now the Al-Qaeda threat.


"Now the focus of efforts is... the threat from Al-Qaeda. That is
a common goal of the government and several of these groups. Al-
Qaeda is trying to intimidate these groups in not co-operating
with the government of Iraq, coalition forces. There is a real
struggle going in the Sunni part of Iraq."


Khalilzad, who has spent 21 months in Iraq, has been nominated by
the White House to become the next ambassador to the United
Nations.


He was quoted as telling the New York Times in an interview
published on Monday that he had held talks last year with
presumed representatives of leading insurgent groups in a bid to
lure Sunnis into the political process.

