

Australian Prime Minister John Howard on Monday criticised the
country's Islamic clerics for failing to oust a leader who has
caused widespread outrage with his remarks about women.


A decision by about 60 members of the Australian National Imams
Council to keep Sheikh Taj Aldin al-Hilali as the country's mufti
for at least three months could harm the image of Muslims
nationwide, Howard said.


"The remarks he made about women... his reference to convicts,
his reference to who is more entitled to call themselves
Australians -- all of those things were totally out of touch with
mainstream Australian sentiment," Howard said.


"And all I can say is the failure of the community to do
something more decisive about this is damaging the image of
Islamic Australians as part of our community," he told Sky news.


Hilali created a storm of protest late last year when he
described scantily- dressed women as "uncovered meat" inviting
rape.


Faced with calls to get out of the country, the Egyptian-born
cleric then mocked the convict ancestry of many white Australians
and said Muslims had more right to live in the country.


A spokesman for the imams said after the council meeting on
Sunday, however, that Hilali was likely to be replaced at the end
of the three-month period, during which a committee to choose a
new mufti would be established.


The new mufti would have to have an understanding of political
and cultural issues and be able to smooth relations between
Muslims and other Australians, said the spokesman, Mohamad
Abdalla.


"That was a point that was made very clear in the conference,
that whoever the mufti is to be must be absolutely careful in the
statements that he makes," Abdalla said.

