

The Australian government Monday hardened its stand against a
scheduled cricket tour of troubled Zimbabwe and said it would try
to avoid huge fines for breach of contract.


The world champions are due to play three one-day internationals
in the Southern African nation in September, but Foreign Minister
Alexander Downer made it clear the government wanted to scrap the
tour.


"I don't want them to tour Zimbabwe," he told reporters. "I think
that is the wrong look."


The regime of President Robert Mugabe has drawn international
criticism over its brutal crushing of dissent this month,
including the shooting of an activist and the beating of several
opposition leaders.


However, Cricket Australia had a contract through the
International Cricket Council to play in Zimbabwe and could face
fines of up to 1.6 million US dollars if it did not fulfill its
commtiments, Downer said.


"We'll sit down with Cricket Australia when they get back and
we'll go into all that sort of detail about what the contract
says.


"It might be that they are able to get out of the tour on the
back of the rising violence in Zimbabwe. We'll have to look at
the contract in detail.


"Just simply to breach the contract, that could be expensive but
there may be other ways around it."


Downer said the cancellation of the tour would not hurt Mugabe's
regime, "in the sense that a lot of them are not interested in or
enthusiastic about cricket."


But, he said, "the whole concept of the world's greatest cricket
team and the biggest names in world cricket visiting Zimbabwe and
giving a blessing to that country is one I feel uncomfortable
with."

