

US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice arrived in Jordan on
Monday for talks with King Abdullah II and Palestinian president
Mahmud Abbas on reviving the Middle East peace process.


Rice headed immediately into talks with Abbas, a day after
holding an initial round of talks with Israeli and Palestinian
leaders.


The US secretary of state is on a new shuttle diplomacy mission
to build Arab support for a new approach towards Israeli-
Palestinian negotiations, which have been dormant for years.


She met Abbas and Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert separately
on Sunday.


Rice returns later Monday to Jerusalem, where she will give a
press conference to present a "parallel" diplomatic approach for
advancing the deadlocked Israeli-Palestinian peace efforts, US
officials said.


The goal is to develop a replacement strategy for three-way
diplomacy Rice launched last month by bringing Olmert and Abbas
together.


King Abdullah II, who earlier this month urged the United States
to "take risks" to help achieve a lasting Middle East peace, will
discuss with Rice the US commitment to such efforts, a Jordanian
official told AFP.


They will also discuss an Arab peace initiative that will top the
agenda of this week's Arab summit in Riyadh, the official said.


"The Arab peace initiative is the suitable framework for the
peace process. King Abdullah and Arab leaders are seeking to re-
activate it," he added.


The Arab blueprint offers Israel normal ties in return for
withdrawal from Arab lands captured in 1967 and the establishment
of a Palestinian state.


It was first endorsed at an Arab summit in Beirut in 2002.

