

Pakistani agents have recovered three Iranian police who were
kidnapped by Sunni rebels and handed them back to authorities in
Iran, while a fourth is believed to have been killed, officials
said Monday.


The four policemen were abducted on February 27 after a deadly
clash in Iran's sensitive southeastern province of Sistan-
Baluchestan and taken towards the Pakistani border, prompting
complaints from Tehran.


A videotape attributed to the Jund Allah (Soldiers of God) Sunni
Muslim militant group and aired on Al-Arabiya television on March
8 purportedly showed the men on their knees, while two masked
gunmen stood behind them.


"Pakistani security agencies recovered the three Iranian
officials in Buleda town on Friday and handed them to Iranian
authorities," a Pakistani security official told AFP in Quetta,
550 kilometres (340 miles) west of Buleda.


"The security forces raided a hideout after a tip-off and we
found the three police there with their hands and feet tied," the
official added on condition of anonymity.


"They said their colleague had been killed several days earlier,
but they didn't know where the body was."


Officials had no details about the fate of the policemen's
abductors.


Al-Arabiya said the kidnappers claimed in the tape that the
hostages were an officer and three soldiers with Iran's
Revolutionary Guards. A separate audiotape said the group were
not linked to Al-Qaeda, the Taliban or US intelligence.


The abductions came weeks after 13 Iranian Revolutionary Guards
were killed by a car bomb in Zahedan, the provincial capital of
Sistan-Baluchestan.


Iran summoned Pakistan's ambassador after the unrest last month
and both sides agreed to tighten border security.

