

Swimmers at the world championships are complaining that the
warm-up pool is too cold, while others have hit out at poor water
visibility in the competition venue.


Australian backstroker Matt Welsh said he was "numb" and
"shaking" after his 30-minute warm-up Monday and claimed the pool
temperature, believed to be as low as 25 degrees Celsius, was
causing slower race times.


"As you swim along you're slowly getting numb so it's very cold,"
he said.


"It's just hard to relax and get your energy back because all
your energy is going into trying to get yourself warm."


Others have questioned the visibility and quality of the water in
the main temporary pool in Rod Laver Arena.


"It's pretty dark out there and the water is pretty murky, so it
surprised me a bit when I dived in," Australian breaststroker
Brenton Rickard was quoted as saying in the Melbourne Age
newspaper.


His teammate Michael Klim added: "My goggles were murky too. I
don't know if it was the pool or the goggles."


Organisers said they were working to increase the warm-up pool
temperature by at least three degrees, while the main pool's
makers, AstralPool, have been asked to investigate the visibility
concerns.


Australian head coach Alan Thompson told reporters he was
confident the pool problems would not affect the swimming.


"I'm assured by the organising committee all is in order and the
temperature will rise," he said.


"That's something probably when you put a pool in a tennis centre
there is difference to normal swimming pools."


The main pool is a temporary structure inside the Rod Laver
Arena, usually home to the Australian Open tennis Grand Slam, and
was filled with 6.8 million litres of water just before the
championships.


It is suspended above centre court where Roger Federer and Serena
Williams won Australian Open titles in January.

