

Zimbabwean opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai declined Monday to
rule out talking to members of Robert Mugabe's ruling Zanu-PF
about a future without the veteran president.


But the head of the Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) denied
media reports that he had met Zanu-PF members within the last
couple of days to discuss a succession to Mugabe, in an interview
with BBC radio.


Asked if there was a chance that this kind of arrangement might
work in future, he said: "We have always called on all patriotic
Zimbabweans who want to see a solution about Mugabe coming
together.


"We have always put on the table the roadmap as the only viable
route to the resolution of the political crisis.


"I'm sure that there is national convergence on such a roadmap
being worked out between some of the ruling party members and the
MDC.


"I foresee a situation in which those who are looking towards the
future within ZANU-PF see a future without Mugabe so it converges
with our opinion that Mugabe has become the stumbling block."


Mugabe would likely be gone within a year, Tsvangirai added.


Mugabe has indicated that presidential elections will take place
next year and Tsvangirai said that Zanu-PF was "anxious to get
him aside so they can get another candidate".


"I do not think that, given the fact that he has already
announced that there will be elections next year, that he himself
will play a part in that election," he added.


Mugabe should not face punishment if he were ousted from office,
Tsvangirai said, speaking of an "honourable exit" for the veteran
politician.


"We would be happy to put him aside and get the country moving
forward without him and concentrate on the job at hand," he said.


He also called for a "much more robust policy initiative towards
Zimbabwe" from South Africa and said that other African countries
were "just as anxious as ourselves that a negotiated settlement
must be found".

