

Japanese share prices took a breather Monday after their recent
rebound as investors awaited an upcoming slew of US and domestic
economic data, dealers said.


They said that many of the major players were sitting on the
sidelines ahead of the fiscal year-end book closing at the end of
this week.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's benchmark Nikkei-225 index of leading
shares rose 41.35 points or 0.24 percent to 17,521.96, rising for
a fifth straight trading day. The TOPIX index of all issues on
the Tokyo Stock Exchange's first section eased 0.57 points to
1,741.37.


Gainers beat decliners 959 to 618, with 153 stocks flat.


Volume fell to 1.53 billion shares from 1.90 billion shares
Friday.


"The market is taking a breather following its rebound last
week," said Kazuhiro Takahashi, equities manager at Daiwa
Securities SMBC.


"Investors are also waiting for earnings announcements, scheduled
for release starting mid-April," he added, predicting the Nikkei
would hold within a range of 17,100-17,600 points this week.


The Nikkei index rose for four straight trading days last week as
global bourses bounced back from their recent sell-off.


"The Nikkei has now recovered half of the loss it incurred
(between February 26 and March 5) and investors are looking for
convincing signs that the market is heading for a sustainable
advance," said a trader at a European asset management firm.


Investors are waiting for a barrage of US and domestic data,
including fourth- quarter US economic growth on Thursday and
Japanese industrial output, consumer prices and unemployment for
February on Friday.


Mitsubishi Electric closed 19 yen or 1.6 percent higher at 1,205
after the company raised its forecast of net profit for this
fiscal year to 122 billion yen from 120 billion yen.


Kyocera edged up 80 yen or 0.72 percent to 11,240 and TDK gained
30 yen or 0.29 percent to 10,260 after the Nikkei newspaper said
analysts expect the two firms were likely to see higher sales and
profits for the year to March 2008.


Isetan rallied 35 yen or 1.67 percent to 2,130 but Tokyu Corp was
down six yen or 0.62 percent at 962 after a newspaper reported
that the companies had agreed to an alliance in their department
store operations.


Sanyo Electric Credit finished limit-up 400 yen or 19.9 percent
at 2,410 after General Electric said Friday it would make a
friendly bid for the company.


On the foreign exchange market, the dollar eased to 117.99 yen in
Tokyo afternoon trade from 118.05 yen in New York late Friday.


The euro slipped to 1.3270 dollars from 1.3282 and to 156.59 yen
from 156.89.

