

Public support for Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's
government has sunk to 35 percent, a poll showed Monday as the
hawkish young premier marked a difficult six months in office.


The cabinet's approval rating has slumped from 67 percent shortly
after he took office in late September, dropping one percentage
point from February alone, the Mainichi newspaper reported.


It was the first time that the Mainichi poll has shown such a
poor approval rating for Abe, although other polls have shown
even lower support.


The cabinet's disapproval rating hit 42 percent, against 16
percent in September, according to the survey of 1,073 voters.


Abe, who at 52 is Japan's youngest post-war premier, took over
from the popular Junichiro Koizumi in September and quickly made
breakthroughs in improving ties with China and South Korea.


But relations have soured again recently over the issue of
wartime sex slaves, and Abe has been plagued by gaffes and
scandals among his aides.


His decision to readmit party rebels expelled in a reform drive
by Koizumi also failed to impress many voters.


Reflecting on his first six months in office, Abe likened his
performance to a airliner.


"I managed to take off and am gradually shifting to reach
cruising speed. I want to make determined efforts to break the
sound barrier," he told reporters.


Japan holds national elections in July which are considered
fraught with risk for the young premier.


Abe has pledged to serve out a full six years to carry out his
ultimate goal -- rewriting the US-imposed 1947 constitution that
forced Japan into pacifism.


Vowing to create a "beautiful country," Abe created Japan's first
full-fledged defence ministry since 1945 and passed a bill
requiring schools to teach patriotism.


But polls show many Japanese are more worried about the economy
and wealth inequalities, although support for the main opposition
Democratic Party of Japan also remains weak.

