

Singapore's dedicated terminal for budget airlines is operating
at just over half of its capacity after the first year of
operation, official figures showed Monday.


The terminal handled more than 1.36 million passengers in its
first year, said the government, which built it with a designed
capacity of about 2.7 million passengers a year.


Monthly passenger volume through the Budget Terminal at Changi
Airport exceeds 130,000, up 80 percent from its first month of
operation exactly one year ago, the Civil Aviation Authority of
Singapore said.


"The healthy progress made by the Budget Terminal today is
testimony that the Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore (CAAS)
made the right decision to build a customised terminal to meet
the operational requirements of low-cost carriers," CAAS director
general Wong Woon Liong said.


"We are delighted to witness the healthy passenger traffic growth
at the Budget Terminal over the last twelve months," he said.


Tiger Airways is the anchor carrier at the one-storey budget
terminal and the Singapore-based discount airline operates 250 of
the 276 weekly flights at the facility.


The other operator is Cebu Pacific of the Philippines, which
resumed flying to Singapore in September.


With the two airlines, Singapore's budget terminal offers flights
to 18 Asia Pacific destinations including Bangkok, Phuket, Macau
and Ho Chi Minh City.


The budget terminal cost 45 million dollars (29.6 million US) and
is designed to serve five million passengers after expansion.


Singapore built the dedicated terminal for low-cost carriers as
part of its bid to ride on the regional boom in no-frills travel
and to maintain its position as a regional air hub.


Shortly before the Singapore low-cost terminal opened, Malaysia
inaugurated its own budget terminal designed to handle 10 million
passengers a year.


The facility's lone occupant so far is Malaysia-based AirAsia.

