

Bank of Japan governor Toshihiko Fukui warned Monday that very
low interest rates could store up trouble for the economy in the
future if people get over reliant on cheap credit.


"We need to gradually adjust the level of interest rates to
reflect changes in the economy and prices," Fukui said in
parliament.


"Even if the economy expands at a moderate rate, there are
concerns that we may see various adverse effects resulting from
the market's belief that the extremely easy interest rates will
last for a long time," he said.


His comments reflect worries at the central bank that Japan may
struggle to kick its addiction to cheap credit and that if it
keeps interest rates very low, it will have no leeway to loosen
monetary policy if needed in the future.


The central bank last week held its key interest rate steady at
0.5 percent following February's quarter point hike, which was
the first increase since last July which ended over five years of
virtually free credit.


The BoJ has faced political pressure not to raise interest rates
too quickly and with inflation still very subdued, the central
bank is expected to move cautiously with further monetary
tightening.


"For now, we must continue to monitor the situation while
maintaining the easy monetary policy," he said.


Analysts say that political sensitivities linked to the July
elections in Japan's upper house of parliament mean that the
BoJ's next increase in interest rates is unlikely to come before
the second half of 2007.

