

Chinese share prices closed sharply higher Monday, adding 1.58
percent for another record finish on continued fresh fund inflows
as telecom, tourist and auto stocks led the gains, dealers said.


Trade was exceptionally heavy again at more than 20 billion
dollars, reflecting interest from people seeking better returns
than on bank desposits and anxious not to miss out on the latest
stock upturn.


Dealers said that after safely negotiating a third interest rate
hike in a row last week, investors are confident and seemingly
unworried that the government may take further measures to cool a
market running at record levels again after a massive fall at the
end of February sparked global turmoil.


The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index, which covers both A- and
B-shares, rose 48.53 points at 3,122.81 on turnover of 109.83
billion yuan (14.17 billion dollars).


The Shanghai A-share Index was up 51.17 points or 1.58 percent to
3,281.44 on turnover of 109.32 billion yuan and the Shenzhen
A-share Index put on 17.63 points or 2.07 percent at 870.79, also
a record, on turnover of 57.30 billion yuan.


"Funds from institutional investors, such as fund management
firms and insurers, continued to rush into the market, in the
wake of its recent strong performance," said Xu Ming, an analyst
at Shiji Investment.


Dealers said the momentum is expected to continue in the short
run.


"The upward trend is likely to be maintained as investors expect
no more major negative news to emerge in the near future after
the interest rate hike announced one week ago," said Zhu Haibin,
an analyst at Everbright Securities.


Telecom companies were buoyed as investors picked up once more on
the 3G (third generation) lead, dealers said.


Recent media reports said China Mobile Communications Corp, the
country's largest mobile operator, has put up a 20 billion yuan
tender for construction of a home-grown 3G TD-SCDMA network in
eight major cities and will begin commercial trials of the
service in October.


Sichuan Huiyuan Optical Communications was up its 10 percent
daily limit at 5.93 yuan.


Datang Telecom Technology, the developer of the TD-SCDMA
technology, was up 0.55 yuan or 2.67 percent at 21.18. ZTE
Corporation added 1.90 yuan or 4.39 percent at 45.20.


Tourism listings were snapped up amidst rotational interest, with
Beijing Capital Tourism up its 10 percent daily limit at 24.63
yuan.


Beijing Jingxi Tourism Development at 15.75 yuan and China CYTS
Tours Holding at 20.76 were also both up by their 10 percent
limits.


Automakers were in demand on strong sales, with Jiangxi Changhe
Automobile up its 10 percent daily limit at 6.15 yuan.


Shanghai Automotive added 0.57 yuan or 4.47 percent at 13.32 and
FAW Car, a partner of Mazda Motor, was up 0.49 yuan or 5.82
percent at 8.91.


The Shanghai B-share Index rose 1.36 points or 0.76 percent at
179.25 on turnover of 506.99 million US dollars and the Shenzhen
B-share Index was up 6.43 points or 1.27 percent at 513.85 on
turnover of 432.94 million Hong Kong dollars (55.86 million US
dollars).

