

The early editions of British newspapers noted that the high
turnout in the first-round of French elections on Sunday were a
sign of the polls' importance, and warned that a fierce clash was
forthcoming.


With the first round of the election attracting a near record
turnout, rightwinger Nicolas Sarkozy got around 30 percent of the
vote, according to projections, followed by socialist Segolene
Royal on 26 percent, to set up an exciting left-right showdown on
May 6.


The Daily Telegraph, a right-wing paper, wrote France is "as its
people recognise, in trouble -- and this election is, as the high
turnout yesterday indicates, its best chance to turn things
around."


In an editorial titled "France needs Sarkozy" it continued to say
that between the two candidates left, "it is Mr Sarkozy who is
likeliest to embrace the painful structural changes that France
so desperately needs."


"But before that, he needs to win an election -- far from a sure
thing, especially in this most fascinating of contests."


Without throwing its support behind either candidate, the left-
of-centre Guardian daily warned that "in getting to the second
round, and having done it so convincingly, she (Royal) will have
scored an important internal victory over her party's jealous
barons, dubbed the 'elephants'."


"Ms Royal will now be in a position to unite her party and
reinstall some semblance of discipline.


"Mr Sarkozy, the front-runner throughout the campaign, still
remains the favourite, but he will be fought tooth and nail by a
resurgent Socialist candidate."


The Daily Mail, a fiercely patriotic paper with a right-wing
tilt, noted in its editorial that though "we may like to sneer at
the French in general and public life across the (English)
Channel in particular ... the turnout in their election offers a
timely lesson for Britain."

