

India sealed off part of its border with Nepal on Monday as it
tightened security for assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, the
country's most populous state, officials said.


Nearly 100,000 security personnel guarded 57 state constituencies
for Monday's ballot, the fourth leg of the marathon polls,
election officials said.


Some 15.5 million people are expected to choose from among 922
candidates standing in the northern state, the officials added.


Chief Election Officer A.K. Bishnoi told AFP that the borders of
districts along Nepal had been sealed off to prevent possible
poll-related trouble.


"The India-Nepal border has been sealed and vehicle movements are
being regulated," Bishnoi said in Lucknow, the capital of the
state of 180 million people.


Uttar Pradesh is dotted with illegal gun-makers and notorious for
its crime rate.


The polls come halfway through the five-year term of the national
government and are seen as a key test of popularity for the
ruling Congress party and the main opposition Hindu nationalist
Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).


Exit polls from the earlier rounds show Mayawati Kumari, a woman
from India's lowest Dalit caste who leads the Bahujan Samaj
Party, edging ahead of incumbent chief minister Mulayam Singh
Yadav.


The vote was seen as crucial for Yadav, whose regional Samajwadi
party picked up half the seats in this area in state elections in
2002. He is up for re-election in the current round.


The Congress party was likely to better its record of 25 seats in
the 403-member state assembly, polls said.


They showed the BJP, upset by Congress in national elections in
2004, was likely to do well in the state polls, which began April
7 and end on May 8.


Earlier this year, the BJP won polls in the northern states of
Uttarakhand and Punjab. Votes will be counted May 11.

