

Boston's burst of four straight home runs overshadowed a shaky
start by Daisuke Matsuzaka and allowed the Red Sox to complete a
sweep of the New York Yankees Sunday.


The Red Sox defeated their American League East archrivals 7-6 to
complete their first sweep of the Yankees at Fenway Park since
1990.


The Red Sox hit four straight homers off Yankees starter Chase
Wright with two outs in the third inning to take their first lead
of the game, 4-3.


Manny Ramirez, J.D. Drew, Lowell and Jason Varitek all took the
lefthander deep before Wily Mo Pena struck out to end the inning.


It was the first time in franchise history, and only the fifth
time in major league history that back-to-back-to-back-to-back
homers had been hit.


The Los Angeles Dodgers were the last team to accomplish the feat
on September 18, 2006, against San Diego. Drew was also involved
in that homer barrage.


The Yankees tied the game in the fifth when Derek Jeter homered
off Matsuzaka and took a 5-4 lead it the sixth when Robinson Cano
scored on Melky Cabrera's groundout.


Lowell then added a three-run shot in the seventh off reliever
Scott Proctor to give Boston the lead back for good.


Matsuzaka struggled throughout and was removed after Rodriguez
singled leading off the eighth.


The Japanese righthander, who was facing the Yankees for the
first time, allowed six runs and eight hits while striking out
seven.


The six runs Matsuzaka yielded matched his total allowed in his
first three starts.


Jonathan Papelbon picked up his sixth save in as many
opportunities with a scoreless ninth inning.


Rodriguez extended his hitting streak to 22 games with a single
in the eighth inning, but grounded out to third base with a
runner on first to end the game.


Wright, making just his second major league start, walked three
and struck out three in three innings. The 24-year-old lefthander
yielded five hits and four runs, all on the solo homers.


Wright tied a major league record for most homers allowed in a
single inning. The last person to do it was Randy Johnson, also
for the Yankees, on August 21, 2005, against the Chicago White
Sox.


The last time the Red Sox had four homers in an inning was July
23, 2002, against Tampa Bay.

