

Complications over visa arrangements have delayed the exile of
former Bangladesh prime minister Khaleda Zia, a newspaper close
to her party said Monday.


"There is uncertainty about Khalada Zia going to Saudi Arabia.
The visa activities and other related activities have not yet
been completed," the Bengali-language daily Naya Diganta said.


The newspaper supports the Islamic party Jamaat-e-Islami, which
was the biggest coalition partner of Zia's Bangladesh Nationalist
Party (BNP).


If visas for Saudi Arabia are not secured for Zia and her family,
other countries would also be considered, including Kuwait, the
United Arab Emirates, Oman and Singapore, the report quoted a
top-level government source as saying.


Reports over the weekend said visa arrangements were close to
being finalised and that a specially chartered plane has been
waiting at Dhaka airport to take her out of the country.


Zia and her arch rival Sheikh Hasina Wajed, the head of the Awami
League, which held power between 1996 and 2001, and also a former
prime minister, are being pushed into exile by emergency-ruled
Bangladesh's military-backed government.


The pair are accused of years of misrule that ended in a
political crisis earlier this year.


Sheikh Hasina was prevented from boarding a flight to Dhaka from
London's Heathrow airport on Sunday.


The government has pledged to clean up Bangladesh's notoriously
corrupt political system before holding elections before the end
of 2008.


Zia's four-party coalition government stepped down at the end of
its five-year term last October.


As part of its anti-graft campaign, the current government has
arrested scores of prominent figures from both parties, including
Zia's influential elder son Tareque, on corruption allegations.

