

LeBron James shrugged off an ankle injury to grab 23 points, nine
rebounds and seven assists here Sunday to lead Cleveland past
Washington 97-82 in a National Basketball Association playoff
opener.


The Cavaliers, second seeds for the first time in 31 years,
grabbed the edge in the best-of-seven Eastern Conference matchup
as they try to eliminate the Wizards for the second year in a
row.


Antawn Jamison had game highs of 28 points and 14 rebounds for
the Wizards while Larry Hughes led the Cavaliers with 27 points.


"We needed it. I was the guy who needed to give us a life and I
came through," Hughes said. "Any time, I'm ready. I'm prepared to
step up and do what I did. We just wanted to stay patient, run
our things."


Hughes hit a 3-pointer at the half-time buzzer to give Cleveland
a 48-41 lead at the break.


"That was definitely a big play for us," James said.


The Cavs' biggest scare of the game came in the third period when
James was fouled by Etan Thomas on a driving layup and remained
on the floor for nearly a minute. When he got up, he was favoring
a sore ankle.


"It's definitely going to hurt a lot tomorrow," said James, who
stayed in the game and didn't appear to be hindered. "This isn't
my first time having an ankle sprain or stepping on someone's
foot. When I wake up tomorrow, it's definitely going to hurt. The
best thing about it is that we don't play until Wednesday, so I
get enough time to get a little bit of rest and see how it
feels."


"But I had no intention of not coming back," James said.


"It was something that made everyone's heart jump a little bit
because you don't want to see that happen to any of your guys,
let alone LeBron," Cavaliers coach Mike Brown said. "But these
next 24 hours are going to be big for us.  He obviously has a
left ankle sprain and will be listed as day-to-day."


The Wizards have the chance to level the series here Wednesday.


"We have to be ready," Hughes said. "It's only one game."

