

Nuclear power is not the long-term answer to China's energy needs
due to limited global uranium supplies and problems with nuclear
waste disposal, state media on Monday quoted a top official as
saying.


"Nuclear power cannot save us because the world's supply of
uranium and other radioactive minerals needed to generate nuclear
power are very limited," Chen Mingde, vice chairman of the
National Development and Reform Commission, said in comments
quoted by the China Daily newspaper.


State media reported last week that China intended to set up a
strategic uranium reserve amid plans to build as many as three
new nuclear power plants annually over the next 10 years.


But Chen called the expansion of China's nuclear power capacity a
"transitional replacement" of the country's heavy reliance on
coal and oil.


He said the future for China lies in more efficient use of such
fossil fuels and expanded consumption of renewable energy sources
like wind, solar, and hydro- power.


Chen spoke during the international Boao Forum for Asia
conference on the southern China island of Hainan at which he
said the country aimed to boost its oil reserves to the
equivalent of 30 days worth of imports, the paper said.


China is keen to diversify its energy sources amid high oil
prices and the environmental costs of coal-burning, which
supplies around 70 percent of the country's power needs.


But Chen said nuclear waste disposal in heavily populated China
remained another check on nuclear power's growth.


China's nuclear power capacity is seen growing to 40 million
kilowatts in 2020 from the current less than 10 million.

