

Heavy shelling shook the Somali capital Monday as Ethiopian
forces battled Islamist insurgents for the sixth straight day.


After a night of sporadic fire, heavy explosions hit northern
Mogadishu's districts, where rival sides exchanged machine gun
fire, mortars and anti- aircraft artillery, residents said.


"I have seen Ethiopian tanks taking positions and heavily
shelling insurgent positions," said Mukhtar Mohamed, a resident
of Fagah in northern Mogadishu.


"The fighting is heavier the yesterday, the rivals are exchanging
machine guns, mortar and anti-aircraft fire," he added.


Several civilians have been trapped in the area as scores of
rotting corpses lay abandoned on the streets, where Ethiopian
tanks and the insurgents' modified pick-up trucks raced with
fighters aboard firing recklessly.


"The fighting is very heavy and the casualties are steadly
increasing everyday. The Ethiopian forces are hitting civilians
indiscriminately," Hussein Said Korgab, the spokesman for
Mogadishu's dominant Hawiye clan, told AFP.


The clashes, which erupted on Wednesday, have so far killed 219
civilians and wounded hundreds others, according to the Elman
Peace and Human Rights Organisation which tracks casualty
figures.


The latest flare-up has displaced at least tens of thousands and
destroyed property of massive value, Korgab said.


"At least 70,000 have evacuated their homes. Property worth 500
million dollars has been destroyed. The Ethiopian and government
forces will take ultimate responsibility for all these mess," he
added.


Four days of fighting earlier this month claimed at least 1,000
lives in clashes that were described as the worst bloodletting
since the 1991 ouster of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre.


The United Nations says some 321,000 people have fled Mogadishu
since February. Many are camped under trees and makeshift hovels
in the city's outskirts, without supplies and where disease
outbreaks have been reported.

