

Malaysian long-haul budget airline pioneer AirAsia X said Monday
it will buy up to 15 new Airbus A330-300 aircraft to begin
services as it branches out from its short-haul beginnings.


AirAsia X operator, Fly Asian Express (FAX), said it would buy 10
of the aircraft with an option for five more.


"Fly Asian Express, the world's first and newest and long-haul
low-cost airline, has announced its intention to order 10
A330-300s, with options on five additional aircraft," FAX said in
a statement.


"The new A330-300 aircraft are scheduled for delivery in the
fourth quarter of 2008. In the meantime, FAX is in the final
stages of firming up its interim fleet," it said.


AirAsia X was unveiled by aviation tycoon Tony Fernandes in
January, who launched regional budget carrier AirAsia more than
five years ago.


"Over the next five years we hope to have 25 (A330-300)
aircraft," said Fernandes, who also announced a re-branding of
the carrier.


"AirAsia X will go and will now be known as AirAsia long-haul,"
he said.


The Malaysian entrepreneur is not the first to try budget long-
haul travel but analysts say the model remains to be proven
despite its success on short-haul flights.


AirAsia X was originally scheduled to begin flights to Britain in
July this year, with seats to be available on the Internet from
February with fares as low as 9.99 ringgit (2.97 dollars).


Operations hit a snag when FAX chief executive officer Raja
Mohamad Azmi said in March services may be delayed up until
September 2008, with delays in Airbus's new super-jumbo
disrupting the aircraft leasing market.


FAX Monday issued a new timeline, saying it would begin flights
in the fourth quarter of 2007 from the low-cost carrier terminal
at Kuala Lumpur International Airport (KLIA).


"Our first flight is out of KLIA in September 2007," said Azmi,
without elaborating.


The A330-300 announcement cements a growing relationship between
AirAsia and the European aircraft manufacturer.


In 2005-2006, AirAsia bought 100 A320s to service its expanding
short-haul operations in the region and in January signed
contracts buy 50 more of the aircraft, with an option for another
50.


"AirAsia has already successfully pioneered the introduction of
low-cost airline operations across the region and is committed to
a large fleet of A320s for long-term growth," John Leahy, Airbus
chief operating officer, said in the statement.


Fernandes launched AirAsia as a regional budget carrier in
December 2001 with two aircraft. It now has 50 planes flying to
Malaysia, Thailand, Indonesia, Singapore, Cambodia, Vietnam and
the Philippines.

