

South Korea's chief nuclear negotiator Chun Yung-Woo was to leave
Monday for the United States to discuss ways to persuade North
Korea to start shutting down its nuclear programme under an
international pact.


The North missed an April 14 deadline and says it will only make
a start once it receives 25 million dollars of its funds which
had been frozen in a Macau bank at US instigation.


Chun will hold talks with his US counterpart Christopher Hill on
"technical issues" preventing a settlement of the dispute over
the funds at Banco Delta Asia (BDA), a foreign ministry official
said on condition of anonymity.


"It will take some time to clear up some procedural matters
surrounding the BDA issue, but the government believes the
matters are only procedural," the official said.


Macau's financial authorities have unblocked the funds, which had
been frozen since 2005 on suspicion of money-laundering and
counterfeiting, and the United States says they are available for
collection.


The communist state, which staged its first nuclear test last
October, said Friday there were "brisk" negotiations between one
of its banks and BDA to settle the issue.


Analysts believe other foreign banks are reluctant to accept the
transferred cash because it is seen as tainted. They say that
apart from just recovering the BDA cash, North Korea may want to
ensure that its access to the international financial system has
been restored.


Under the deadline for initial actions set by a February 13 six-
nation accord, the North was to have shut down its Yongbyon
reactor by April 14 in the presence of UN atomic inspectors.


Chun is also scheduled to meet other US officials and legislators
during his trip, which ends Friday.


On Sunday South Korea agreed to resume its annual 400,000 tons of
rice aid to the North, but said the shipments would be
conditional on it moving to shut down its nuclear programme.

