

Dutch bank ABN Amro and Britain's Barclays announced Monday they
plan to merge, creating Europe's second-largest bank and the
fifth worldwide.


The new company will have 220,000 employees and 47 million
customers.


The two banks also said in the statement that with the tie-up
12,800 jobs would be shed and 10,800 would be sub contracted out.


ABN Amro management has been under pressure from shareholder TCI,
a hedge fund, to discuss takeover terms with other groups
interested in buying the lender.


The Dutch bank had been set to meet Monday with the Royal Bank of
Scotland, Spain's Banco Santander and Belgian-Dutch group Fortis
regarding a possible separate offer.


It is thought that the three banks, which would be able to cut
more costs than Barclays, would divide up ABN assets between
them.


However the Dutch central bank warned last week that a potential
takeover bid by the three-bank consortium would be risky and
complicated for shareholders.


On March 20, Barclays and ABN Amro had outlined specific plans
for a merger, valuing the combined group at nearly 140 billion
euros (190 billion dollars) with its main stock market listing in
London, and its headquarters and a secondary listing in
Amsterdam.


Arthur Martinez of ABN Amro will head the group and John Varley,
who currently heads Barclays, will be the executive director.


Outside Britain, Barclays has interests in continental Europe,
Asia, the United States, the Middle East and Africa.


ABN Amro has also expanded into emerging markets in Asia and has
interests in Canada, Italy, Mexico and the United States. It has
4,500 branches in 53 countries.

