

Socialist Segolene Royal called Sunday for voters to rally round
her for the presidential run-off, promising to bring France
change without upheaval.


"I call on all those who... believe it is possible to reform
France without brutalising it, who want a triumph of human values
over the stockmarket, who want an end to the painful rise of
insecurity and precarity, to come together," she told a rally in
central-western France.


Royal and right-winger Nicolas Sarkozy, 52 will face off in a May
6 run-off vote after topping the multi-candidate first round on
Sunday.


The 53-year-old candidate for the Socialist Party (PS) won some
26 percent of the first round vote, compared to around 30 percent
for Sarkozy, according to projections.


"A new campaign is beginning. In two weeks, France is going to
choose its destiny and it face," Royal told cheering supporters.


"We have a clear choice between two, very different projects for
society. I reach out to all those who believe it is not only
possible but urgent to break with a system that is no longer
working.


"Many of us -- regardless of the first round -- do not want a
France ruled by the law of the strongest or the most brutal,
sewn-up by money interests, where all powers are concentrated in
the same few hands.


"As you know I am a free woman, as you are a free people. I am
not hostage to any clan, to any pressure group, to any financial
power.


"I appeal to all those who believe there is no freedom without
justice, no economic efficiency without social progress," she
said, promising to set "fair rules for globalisation" and to
fight "the social regression that comes when we surrender to
unfettered economic liberalism."


Royal -- who fought off competition for the centre-left vote from
the centrist Francois Bayrou -- said she understood the
"disappointment" of all those who backed losing candidates in the
first round, promising to be the "custodian of an impartial
state."

