

Iran is ready to "support" the 15 British sailors it captured to
publish their stories after London reversed a decision allowing
them to receive payments for their accounts, a top presidential
advisor said.


"Once we get assurances that the young British naval personnel
will not get into trouble with their government and their
military, then Iran is prepared to support them in writing and
publishing their memoirs," Ali Akbar Javanfekr was quoted as
saying by state media.


We will "provide them with photos as well as cassette tapes and
video cassettes on their cheerful life during their time in
Iran," said Javanfekr, the top media advisor to Iranian President
Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.


On March 23, 15 British navy and marines were detained by Iran's
elite Revolutionary Guards on an accusation of crossing into
Iranian territorial waters.


Ahmadinejad subsequently pardoned and released them as a "gift"
for the British people. While in Iran, the sailors said they were
looked after well but made allegations of maltreatment on their
return.


Britain's Defence Secretary Des Browne was then forced to
apologise in parliament for a decision to allow sailors to sell
their stories which was rapidly replaced by a wholesale ban.


Faye Turney, the only female detainee, reportedly received around
100,000 pounds (147,000 euros, 196,000 dollars) for interviews
with The Sun tabloid, and commercial broadcaster ITV.


The youngest detainee, Operator Maintainer Arthur Batchelor, sold
his story to the Daily Mirror and caused embarrassment in
military ranks by complaining the Iranians never returned his MP3
player.

