

Japanese share prices closed little changed Monday as a stronger
yen unsettled nervous investors ahead of the domestic corporate
results season, dealers said.


They said the market started on an upbeat note after Wall
Street's Dow Jones index struck a record finish for a third
straight day Friday.


But stocks gave back most of their gains as the Japanese currency
rose -- pressuring exporters -- after Standard and Poor's
upgraded its long-term sovereign debt ratings on Japan by one
notch to the third-highest AA grade.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
inched up 2.75 points at 17,455.37, coming off a high of
17,656.55.


The broader Topix index of all first-section shares slipped 4.44
points or 0.26 percent to 1,705.63.


Gainers beat decliners 1,093 to 525, with 111 stocks flat.


Volume rose to 1.90 billion shares from 1.79 billion Friday.


"The stronger yen prompted players to unwind long (buy)
positions," said Kazuhiro Takahashi, an equities official at
Daiwa Securities SMBC.


The upside may remain limited in the near-term given upcoming
company results and disappointment over the market's failure to
follow Wall Street's positive lead, dealers said.


"Market players wish to find out how cautious companies are about
the outlook for the global economy this year, especially after
the global plunge in stock markets in February," said a trader at
a European asset management firm.


Optical glass maker Hoya Corp fell 140 yen or 3.4 percent to
3,980 despite reporting a 10 percent rise in net profit in the
fiscal year ended March.


Supermarket operator Daiei was down 49 yen or 3.12 percent to
1,521 after the group warned that its earnings would fall sharply
in the year to next February after an 8.5 percent rise in
operating profit last year.


JFE Holdings added 60 yen or 0.93 percent to 6,530 and Nippon
Steel ended flat at 769 after the Nikkei reported that the two
companies were likely to report record profits and hike dividends
for the year to March 2008.


On the foreign exchange market, the dollar fell to 118.53 yen in
Tokyo afternoon trade from 118.66 yen late Friday in New York.


The euro was flat at 1.3590 dollars and dropped to 161.08 yen
after 161.30.

