

French defence manufacturer Thales has proposed to the British
government that the two countries cut costs on their next
generation of warships by sharing the construction
responsibilities, its chief said in an interview published
Monday.


According to the Financial Times, the British defence ministry
has said it was still considering all proposals for its plan to
build two aircraft carriers, while unnamed senior French
officials were quoted by the paper as saying that Britain was
"sympathetic" to the Thales proposal.


"Building the ships together would be in the best interests of
British and French taxpayers," Thales chief executive Denis
Ranque told the business daily.


With France planning to build one aircraft carrier, Ranque said
the two countries should join forces and merge the separate
projects into a single three-ship plan.


He proposed that France handle about a third of each ship, while
Britain could deal with the other two-thirds, in a move that was
likely directed at placating Britain's biggest defence
manufacturer BAE Systems.


"If we can find a way that industry is incentivised, if part of
the savings are going to industry itself, I do not see why our
friends at BAE Systems would not take that on," Ranque was quoted
as saying by the FT.


Ranque conceded, however, that there would be opposition to his
proposals, thanks in part to Britain's naval heritage: "In the
UK, the navy is sacred."

