

The Solomon Islands on Monday mourned the death of at least 52
people in this month's earthquake and tsunami, described by the
country's prime minister as the worst disaster here since World
War II.


More than 6,000 people were displaced in the western region of
the South Pacific archipelago and many villagers remain too
scared to return to their coastal homes because of fears of
another tsunami.


Three days after returning from a visit to the devastated area,
Prime Minister Mannaseh Sogavare described the disaster as the
biggest tragedy the country had experienced since the war.


"I witnessed first hand the extent of the devestation caused by
the tsunami. I was encouraged by the determination of the people
to rebuild their lives," he told a memorial service in the
capital Honiara.


A moment of silence was observed across the Solomons at 7:39am,
exactly three weeks after the 8.0-magnitude earthquake struck,
unleashing a tsunami up to several metres high.


Monday was declared a public day of mourning, with shops and
businesses closed throughout the country of around 500,000
people. Memorial services were held in Honiara and in Gizo, the
Western Province capital.


Gizo lies around 45 kilometres (30 miles) from the epicentre of
the huge quake and was one of the worst devastated areas. Of
those killed in the disaster, 33 came from Gizo island.


Sogavare praised the relief effort and hailed those who risked
their lives to save others.


"At Titiania village a six-year-old lost his own life trying to
save the life of his three-year-old sister. It was a willing act
of sacrifice," he said.


The National Disaster Management Office said the focus of the
relief operation had shifted to the long-term rehabilitation of
the affected areas.


The government plans to relocate low-lying communities to higher
ground to keep them out of the path of any future tsunamis.

