

Oil prices were narrowly mixed in Asian trade Monday, with the
focus on possible disruption to Nigerian supply following
contested presidential elections and on US gasoline (petrol)
stocks, dealers said.


At 10:00 am (0200 GMT), New York's main contract, light sweet
crude for June delivery, was down 23 cents to 63.88 dollars a
barrel from 64.11 dollars in late US trades Friday.


Brent North Sea crude for June delivery was up one cent at 66.50
dollars.


With the US summer driving season kicking off next month, the
market is waiting for this week's US report on gasoline stocks,
said Gerard Burg, a commodities economist with National Australia
Bank in Melbourne.


"The main issue at the moment is the state of US gasoline
supplies," he said. "I think the weekly report will be the key
thing this week."


The US report issued last week showed US gasoline reserves
falling a worse-than- expected 2.7 million barrels, the 10th
consecutive decline.


The outcome of presidential elections in Nigeria, Africa's
biggest oil-producing nation and the world's six-largest
exporter, is also being closely monitored, dealers said.


As officials tallied votes, the conduct of the poll marking the
first peaceful civilian-to-civilian handover since independence
in 1960 in Africa's most populous nation came under increasing
criticism by observer missions, Western and African alike.


Electoral commission chief Maurice Iwu insisted the Saturday
polls were successful, free and fair.


But in the face of widespread electoral mayhem and calls from the
opposition for a re-run, the German presidency of the European
Union criticised "irregularities" and an observer team from the
Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) dubbed the
polls merely "fairly acceptable" rather than free and fair.


"Incidents have given rise to concerns that not all Nigerians
entitled to vote really were able to do so freely and without
fear," the EU said.

