

Fresh from becoming the first Chinese runner to win the London
marathon, Zhou Chunxiu is now setting her sights on a medal at
the 2008 Beijing Olympics, state press said Monday.


Zhou won the London race on Sunday, coming home in 2hrs 20min
38sec ahead of Ethiopia's Gete Wami and Romanian Constantina
Tomescu-Dita.


"I'm not going to say that I'm going to win the gold medal, but I
am going to do the best I can to get a medal," China News Service
quoted Zhou as saying about next year's Beijing Games.


The 28-year-old said she could have run a quicker race in London
but her lead was so great that there was no competition to push
her to a faster time.


"If there had been another runner competing with me over the last
several kilometres, then the time would have been much better,"
she said.


Zhou got off to a fast start in unseasonal heat before putting in
a punishing spurt over the last three miles to blow away the rest
of the field.


She finished more than a minute ahead of Wami, the Berlin
marathon winner last year.


Zhou ran her best marathon time of 2:19 last year in Seoul, which
was the second best time in the world in 2006.


With Chinese sports officials not expecting her to perform an
outstanding race Sunday, the petite runner said she felt relaxed
and had nowhere near the pressure she had when she won the Asian
Games marathon in Doha in December.


"This was most relaxed race I've run, there was no pressure,"
Zhou said.


"I was just thinking that I would use it as a personal training
run in a field with the world's top athletes, I was looking at
the race as a good opportunity to get to know the competition."


Zhou is the first Chinese runner -- man or woman -- to win a
major international marathon, including the races in Boston,
London, New York, Chicago and Berlin.


She finished fifth at the 2005 world championships in Helsinki
and 33rd at the 2004 Olympics.

