

Japanese dailies on Monday lauded midfielder Shunsuke Nakamura as
history-making after his last-gasp goal gave Celtic the Scottish
Premier League title.


"Shunsuke's victory bullet!" ran the headline of the Tokyo-
Chunichi Sports newspaper a day after Celtic triumphed 2-1 at
Kilmarnock in injury time.


"So Dramatic, Shunsuke," the Nikkan Sports daily said.
"Nakamura's name has been engraved into the history of European
football."


National newspapers carried Nakamura's achievement as the top
item on their sports pages.


"Shunsuke's Historic Free Kick," the Sankei Shimbun said in its
headline, with a picture of the 28-year-old swinging his shirt
around for joy after his winning goal.


Later in the day, Nakamura was voted Player of the Year by the
Scottish Professional Footballers' Association, beating off
strong competition from team mates Lee Naylor and Artur Boruc, as
well as Aberdeen skipper Russell Anderson.


"I'm very pleased but this isn't something you can get on your
own -- it's down to the whole team and also the supporters," the
modest Nakamura said in Scotland.


"All the players deserved to get this award. For example, a
player like Neil Lennon is not really in the limelight but he is
so important in the background and without players like him we
wouldn't have our style of play."


Nakamura joined the Yokohama Marinos in 1997 and scored 33 goals
in 148 games, winning the J-League's most valuable player award
in 2000.


He moved to Italy's Reggina in July 2002 and scored 11 goals in
81 Serie A games before joining Celtic in 2005.


Despite his success in Europe, Nakamura said earlier this year
that he hoped to return soon to play in Japan.

