

South Korea Monday resumed imports of US beef three weeks after
the two countries sealed a landmark free-trade pact, officials
said.


"US beef totalling 4.5 tons arrived in South Korea today,
awaiting  inspection at Incheon airport," an agriculture ministry
official told AFP on condition of anonymity.


He said the shipment would go on sale after quarantine officials
had completed an inspection of individual packages for bone
chips.


"We will only send back packages of meat containing bone chips,"
he said.


South Korea, once the third-largest market for US beef, last year
lifted a three-year ban imposed to keep out mad-cow disease and
agreed to accept shipments of boneless meat.


But inspectors blocked all three shipments totalling 22 tons sent
between October and December after finding tiny bone fragments in
them. US officials reacted angrily, calling the action a pretext
to protect Korean farmers.


Lifting the ban was not officially part of the free-trade deal,
which was crafted in early April after 10 months of tough
negotiations.


But some key US lawmakers have threatened to kill the deal -- the
biggest for the United States since the 1993 North American Free
Trade Agreement -- without the full reopening of South Korea's
beef market.


As a first step Seoul agreed it would only turn away packages
found to contain bone chips and not the entire shipment.


It also verbally promised to consider a wider opening after the
International Organisation for Animal Health reviews mad cow
risks in the US next month.


In addition, Seoul agreed to phase out its 40 percent tariff on
beef over 15 years.


Before the 2003 import ban, South Korea bought 850 million
dollars of US beef a year.

