

The gunman who mowed down 32 fellow students and faculty at a
Virginia university last week apparently purchased empty
ammunition clips over the eBay Internet auction site, authorities
and a company official said on Sunday.


"My understanding was there were some clips or some magazine
cartridges that might have been purchased electronically,"
Virginia's attorney general, Bob McDonnell told CNN.


A company spokeswoman said eBay's privacy rules prohibited public
disclosure of a customer's purchases but said media reports about
Cho Seung-Hui buying clips on the website appeared "fairly
accurate."


"He did have a transaction history on our site, much of it
unrelated. There may have been a few items that were related (to
the shooting)," spokeswoman Catherine England told AFP.


"Based on reports that are out there, it does appear he may have
purchased the items as described," she said.


The South Korean-born Cho used two handguns to kill 32 students
and teachers at Virginia Tech University on Monday before taking
his own life in the worst school shooting in US history.


England denied some media accounts implying Cho bought bullets
for his one of his handguns through eBay.


"That's completely inaccurate. The ammunition itself was not
purchased on eBay," she said.


The company forbids the sale of any ammunition or firearms
through its online auction site, said England.


Selling magazine clips and gun holsters is legal and the items
are also available at numerous stores, she added.


England said eBay quickly shared information with federal law
enforcement authorities after learning the identity of the
gunman.


"We put in the call to the FBI within 24 hours of this incident,"
she said.

