

China's bank regulator has warned 10 commercial lenders about
credit growth risks amid expectations Beijing will move to rein
in the country's roaring economy, state media reported Monday.


The 10 banks are China Construction Bank, Bank of Communications,
Bank of China, Merchants Bank, CITIC Bank, Shanghai Pudong
Development Bank, Minsheng Bank, Industrial Bank, Huaxia Bank and
Zheshang Bank, the 21st Century Business Herald said.


Liu Mingkang, chairman of the China Banking Regulatory
Commission, warned of "rather fast growth in credit during the
first quarter by commercial banks," the report said.


"We must analyse the reasons behind the fast expansion of credit
and see if it is justified," the paper quoted Liu as saying at a
teleconference attended by bankers and regulators last Thursday.


Figures from the central bank showed that in the first three
months of this year, new local-currency denominated loans reached
1.4 trillion yuan (181.2 billion dollars), increasing by 167.8
billion yuan from a year earlier.


China's economic growth accelerated to 11.1 percent year-on-year
in the first quarter of the year, stoking fears of overheating in
an economy that has boomed on excessive liquidity and robust
growth in fixed assets investment.


The government has also expressed fears of inflation with the
consumer price index surging 3.3 percent in March, above the
government-set inflation target of three percent for the year.


Liu at the meeting urged commercial banks to be cautious in
issuing credit and step up risk management to ensure that bank-
lending be in line with the central government's macro-economic
control measures.

