

British Airways said Monday that it has approached several
private equity groups about a potential consortium takeover of
rival airline Iberia of Spain.


"British Airways is considering how to use its 10 percent holding
in Iberia following Iberia's announcement that it has received a
bid approach," BA said in a statement which did not exclude
selling the stake.


"As part of this process, the airline has approached a number of
private equity companies about making a consortium offer for
Iberia."


However, BA has ruled out an independent bid for the Spanish flag
carrier.


Iberia had received a takeover approach last month from US
investment fund Texas Pacific Group (TPG), which said it planned
to launch a bid at 3.60 euros per share or 3.4 billion euros (4.6
billion dollars) in total. But Iberia has not issued an official
response.


BA, which did not give the names of any potential private equity
partners, added Monday that any consortium bid would not involve
further capital investment on its part.


As well as a private equity partner, the consortium was likely to
include one or more Spanish partners, the airline added.


A key condition of any deal for the Iberia board was understood
to be that any takeover would be done with a Spanish partner.


"BA has not made a final decision about the future of its
shareholding in Iberia and continues to examine numerous options
including full disposal," it added in the statement.


There has been persistent speculation that Lufthansa was
interested in buying Iberia, which is seen as a takeover target
in the consolidation of the European airline industry. However,
both companies have brushed off rumours of a tie-up.


Iberia has faced intense speculation over its future after the
United States and European Union signed an "open skies" agreement
which, among other things, opens up London's Heathrow Airport to
more competition.

