

Chinese share prices were sharply higher in Monday morning trade,
adding another 2.67 percent to record highs on fresh fund
inflows, with banking, power generation and steel stocks in
favour, dealers said.


They said the influx of new money would continue push shares even
higher, with investors looking at expected strong 2006 results as
well as a strengthening currency for their lead.


"Fresh funds continued rushing into the market on hopes for 'easy
profits' as the market has performed strongly over the past
month," said Cao Yan, an analyst at Soochow Securities.


"Solid corporate earnings and abundant liquidity due to the
rising yuan will keep the market bullish in the short- and
medium-term, and the market may not see a major correction until
the launching of index futures," Cao added.


The market continues to post record gains, with investors
shrugging off concerns that very fast growth in the first quarter
would make the authorities more likely to take more measures to
slow the runaway economy.


Dealers have said that the market now has so much momentum that
shares will continue to rise in the short-term whatever the
government does.


The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index ended the morning session
up 95.65 points at 3,679.85, after touching an intraday all-time
high of 3,682.57.


The previous day closing high was 3,612.40 points set on April
18.


The Shanghai A-share Index was up 100.37 points or 2.66 percent
at 3,867.21 and the Shenzhen A-share Index rose 29.67 points or
2.82 percent at 1,081.84, also a new intraday record.

