

Japanese share prices climbed 0.94 percent in morning trade
Monday, lifted by another record high on Wall Street Friday and
hopes of upbeat domestic earnings news, dealers said.


They said exporters got a boost from a softer yen, which helped
to steady nerves ahead of Japan's corporate results season which
gets into full swing later this week.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
rose 164.89 points to 17,617.51 by the lunch break.


The broader Topix index of all first-section shares advanced
11.62 points or 0.68 percent to 1,721.69.


Gainers were beating decliners 964 to 620, with 140 stocks flat.


Volume was 836 million shares, down from 859 million on Friday
morning.


On Wall Street, the Dow Jones index struck a record finish for a
third straight day in row Friday, adding 1.2 percent as investors
cheered a flurry of upbeat profit reports.


Even so, many Japanese investors held back as they awaited
domestic corporate results for the fiscal year ended March 31 and
companies' profit outlooks for this year, dealers said.


"Market players wish to find out how cautious companies are about
the outlook for the global economy this year, especially after
the global plunge in stock markets in February," said a trader at
a European asset management firm.


Optical glass maker Hoya slipped 80 yen or 1.94 percent to 4,040
and toiletries maker Kao ended the morning flat at 3,400 yen
ahead of their results due out after the close of trade Monday.


Supermarket operator Daiei fell 12 yen or 0.76 percent to 1,558
after the group warned that its earnings would fall sharply in
the year to next February after an 8.5 percent rise in operating
profit last year.


JFE Holdings Inc jumped 200 yen or 3.09 percent to 6,670 and
Nippon Steel was up four yen or 0.52 percent at 773 after the
Nikkei reported that the two companies were was likely to report
record profits and hike dividends.

