

Prominent Chinese environmental activist Wu Lihong has been
arrested for alleged blackmail, his wife and a friend said
Monday.


"He has been accused of blackmail," Wu's wife Xu Jiehua told AFP.
"This is the 10th day he remains in police custody."


Dozens of police stormed Wu's house in Yixing city on April 13,
ransacked it and took his computer and personal documents, Xu and
a fellow environmental activist said.


The 39-year-old has campaigned for years against the pollution of
Taihu lake which lies in the centre of Yangtze Delta plain, a
region known for its natural beauty but littered with polluting
light industry and chemical factories.


Taihu, which borders China's eastern Zhejiang and Jiangsu
provinces, is also a major source of drinking water for the
heavily populated area including neighbouring Shanghai, China's
financial hub.


In an interview with AFP in March 2006, Wu said immediate
economic interests continued to take precedence over
environmental protection.


"The government and industry are connected to each other like a
chain, they are inseparable," he said at the time.


"The central government is good but it can't see what's happening
here with the local government colluding with the factories."


Near Yixing, a city of more than one million people, water
pollution is so severe that the area has received numerous
official visits by top Communist party officials, including
Premier Wen Jiabao.


Although China has vowed to step up protection of its heavily
degraded environment, local politics often trumps national policy
and effective independent policing, Wu said.


Wu, who has repeatedly been threatened by the authorities, was
last formally arrested in 2002, when police held him for 10 days.


"Wu Lihong has over the years put a lot of pressure on the
authorities here and when you do that in China, this is what
happens," said a friend.

