

Malaysia's former prime minister has attacked his successor and
urged him to quit at the next election to make way for a man more
than 10 years his junior.


Ex premier Mahathir Mohamad told journalists Sunday that Prime
Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi was only meant to serve one term,
according to news website Malaysiankini.com.


He said he had expected Abdullah, 67, to hand over to the younger
Najib Razak, who is 53 and currently deputy prime minister, but
the switch seemed to be in doubt.


"There was no agreement, but I expected him to serve one term.
Now it seems he wants three terms," Mahathir was quoted as
saying.


The former premier voluntarily stepped down in October 2003,
handing the reins to Abdullah, who was elected in a landslide
general election the following year.


Speaking at a lunch with reporters, Mahathir said he had chosen
Abdullah to take over because of his "Mr Clean" anti-corruption
image, the website said.


But the ex-premier also said Najib, then a vice president with
the ruling United Malays National Organisation (UMNO), is more
popular with the party and should take over.


"Najib was more popular, he was vice-president. It would be
unfair for him," said Mahathir, who has attacked Abdullah's
administration for months, levelling accusations of economic
mismanagement, nepotism and corruption.


Abdullah has repeatedly denied the charges.


Malaysia's next general election is due in 2009 but there is
widespread speculation that Abdullah will hold a poll before
then.


The PM last week refuted reports that he would soon resign.


"All these rumours that I am going to resign in July, who is
saying this? Some have said I am a one-term prime minister. We
will see about that," he told the New Straits Times on Thursday.

