

Australian share prices closed flat Monday after trading in and
out of positive territory as profit-taking in leading bank stocks
was offset by support for the top miners, dealers said.


They said banks the banks were under pressure of key inflation
data due on Tuesday which is likely to determine whether the
Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) hikes interest rates or not next
month.


The market has been on a record-breaking run recently and could
be in for some consolidation but underlying sentiment remains
positive, with the economic fundamentals looking good, they
added.


The SP/ASX 200 inched up 1.7 points at 6,209.2 while the broader
All Ordinaries index rose 5.0 points to 6,192.2.


Turnover was 1.83 billion shares worth 5.43 billion dollars (4.5
billion US), with gains leading 648 to 600 and 358 stocks
unchanged.


Bell Securities private client advisor Stuart Smith said some
profit-taking was expected in banking stocks following a strong
run last week which saw Commonwealth Bank reach record levels.


He said views differed on whether Tuesday's consumer price index
data for the three months to March will be sufficiently strong to
convince the central bank to hike interest rates next month.


"There's some uncertainty there but we had a fairly healthy
session even if the overall movement wasn't that much," Smith
said.


Commonwealth Bank ended down 0.07 dollars at 53.13 dollars, ANZ
lost 0.13 to 31.08, Westpac fell 0.20 to 27.15 but National
Australia Bank gained 0.04 to 43.74.


Dealers said miners BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto made modest gains
though an industrial dispute at Indonesia's Grasberg mine that
pushed up copper prices on Friday has been settled.


Grasberg is rated the world's second largest copper mine and last
year accounted for nearly 4.0 percent of global mined production
of the metal.


BHP Billiton closed up 0.15 at 30.00 while Rio Tinto gained 0.54
to 83.96.


Telstra fell 0.07 to 4.72 and its T3 depositary receipts slipped
0.06 to 3.26 while SingTel gained 0.01 to 2.69.


Qantas ended unchanged at 5.37 after Airline Partners Australia
declared its 5.45 dolars a share bid for the national flag
carrier final and said the 11 billion dollars offer would not be
extended beyond its May 4 expiry date.


Coles Group, the target of a 16.47 dollars a share offer from a
consortium led by conglomerate Wesfarmers, added 0.04 to 17.26 as
investors continued to bet on a possible rival bid.


Westfarmers closed up 0.20 at 38.40 while Coles' rival Woolworths
fell 0.19 at 28.60.

