

Defending champions Italy brushed aside China 5-0 on Sunday to
set up a Fed Cup semi-final showdown at home in mid-July against
France.


The French crushed Japan 5-0 in Limoges as Russia also achieved a
whitewash over Spain in Moscow to advance to a final four clash
with either the United States or Belgium.


In Castellaneta Marina, Tathiana Garbin defeated China's Zhang
Shuai, who was standing in for the injured Peng Shuai, 3-6, 6-2,
6-4, and Mara Santangelo overcame Sun Tian-Tian 6-4, 6-2.


Santangelo and Roberta Vinci completed the whitewash with a 6-2,
6-4 doubles victory over Sun Tian Tian and Sun Sheng-Nan.


Italy had taken a 2-0 lead overnight after Peng was forced to
retire with a left thigh injury giving Flavia Pennetta a 0-6,
7-5, 3-0 victory. Garbin had put the hosts in front with a 6-4,
2-6, 6-3 win over Sun Tian-Tian.


They next face a French side who will be gunning to avenge their
only loss to the Italians in seven previous encounters. That came
last year when Italy upset the French at home in Nancy 4-1 in the
first round.


"It's going to be tough," admitted Italian captain Corrado
Barazzutti.


"The French team will want to forget the last time we played.
They will come prepared to win, for sure. But we'll be ready."


French teenager Tatiana Golovin's play made light of the absence
of world number three Amelie Mauresmo.


The 19-year-old, Moscow-born Golovin, brushed aside veteran
Japanese Ai Sugiyama 7-6 (7/3), 6-0 to complete her second
victory of the tie, having already defeated Akiko Morigami on
Saturday.


Much like her previous day's match against Nathalie Dechy,
Sugiyama fought tooth and nail in the first set, which lasted 1hr
13min, but then crumbled in the second.


Virginie Razzano ousted Morigami 7-6 (7/4), 1-6, 6-2, with Dechy
and Severine Bremond maintaining the hosts unbeaten run in the
doubles, disposing of Sugiyama and Ayumi Morita 6-1, 6-2.


In Moscow, Svetlana Kuznetsova fired Russia into the final four
with a 6-3, 4-6, 6-0 win over Anabel Medina Garrigues.


Anna Chakvetadze needed three sets to get past Nuria Llagostera
Vives 3-6, 7-6 (7/5), 6-2 before Nadia Petrova and Elena Vesnina
completed the rout 6-1, 4-6, 6-2 against Lourdes Dominguez-Lino
and Laura Pous-Tio in the doubles.


On Saturday, Kuznetsova and Nadia Petrova gave Russia a
commanding 2-0 lead, beating Dominguez-Lino 6-3, 6-2 and Medina
Garrigues 6-3, 6-4 respectively.


Meanwhile in Delray Beach, Florida, the United States held a 2-0
overnight lead against Belgium.

