

More than 40 senior former World Bank officials called Monday for
the immediate resignation of its embattled leader Paul Wolfowitz,
saying he had lost trust and respect.


In a letter to the Financial Times, the 42 ex-employees called
for change following revelations that the bank's president used
his influence to ensure a favourable job and salary for his
girlfriend.


"We believe that he can no longer be an effective leader," said
the letter, which was signed by staff including four former
senior vice presidents and 14 ex-vice presidents.


"He has lost the trust and respect of bank staff at all levels,
provoked a rift among senior managers, developed tense relations
with the board, damaged his own credibility on good governance --
his flagship issue -- and alienated some key shareholders at a
time when their support is essential for a successful
replenishment of the resources needed to help the poorest
countries, especially in Africa."


The letter concluded: "There is only one way for Mr Wolfowitz to
further the mission of the bank: he should resign."


In an accompanying editorial the business daily backed the former
staff's concerns.


"If Paul Wolfowitz remains head of the World Bank, he will
preside over a rudderless hulk," the leader said.


"That is today's inconvenient truth. The US has alwaus had the
prerogative of nominating the president of the bank. But this
privilege carries with it a big responsibility. Exercising that
responsibility now requires acceptance of an immediate change in
the bank's top leadership."


Wolfowitz, a former US deputy defence secretary pivotal in
decisions leading to the Iraq war, ordered a hefty salary worth
nearly 200,000 dollars for his bank employee girlfriend, Shaha
Riza, in 2005.


It left him open to accusations of hypocrisy as he steers a
controversial campaign against corruption in the World Bank's 24
-billion-dollar annual lending.

