

Sweden's Marika Domanski-Lyfors is set to become the next coach
of the Chinese national women's soccer squad if imminent talks in
Beijing go well, a state press report said Saturday.


"There is no concrete time set but I will definitely soon be in
Beijing for face-to-face negotiations," the Beijing Morning Post
quoted Domanski-Lyfors as saying.


"So far my discussions with the China Football Association have
been really good and everything up until now has gone really
smoothly."


The Women's World Cup starts in six months and whoever is the
women's coach will be under huge pressure after Chinese sport
officials set the squad a minimum target of a semi-final finish.


"I was under a lot of pressure when I coached Sweden to the
finals of the last World Cup, so I know I can clearly face it
all," Domanski-Lyfors said.


Domanski-Lyfors, recently described in the Chinese press as
"tougher than any male coach", led Sweden to the 2003 World Cup
final which they lost to Germany.


She stepped down after nine years as Sweden's coach in 2005 but
still works for the Swedish Football Federation and coaches the
under-21 side.


Domanski-Lyfors is reportedly the only candidate for the post of
the currently troubled "steel roses", as China's women's team is
known.


The side has been on a downward spiral for months and last week
lost its caretaker coach who stepped down just two months after
the head coach abandoned the squad citing ill health.


Last week the squad returned from Europe in disgrace, having lost
six games in a row, including defeats to Iceland and Finland.


China have slipped to ninth place in women's football standings
in the years since they lost by one penalty goal to the United
States in the final of the 1999 World Cup.

