

Portugal coach Luiz Felipe Scolari pleaded with supporters on
Friday to welcome the Belgium team with respect despite
contentious remarks made by the visiting goalkeeper about
Cristiano Ronaldo.


Portugal play host to group A rivals Belgium on Saturday in what
could turn out to be a crucial Euro 2008 qualification match.


In the build-up to the game however 26-year-old Belgium keeper
Stijn Stijnen on Thursday was quoted in a regional newspaper,
Gazet Van Antwerpen, as saying: "After two minutes we'll bring
him down so hard he'll get carried off on a stretcher."


The comments caused fury among the Portuguese Football
Association who immediately filed a complaint to European
football's governing body. UEFA are set to investigate the
allegations.


Belgium's Brazilian coach Scolari has attempted to calm the
waters before the game by recalling the atmosphere around the
stands four years ago.


"I want to see 55,000 supporters to go crazy for Portugal but
with respect for Belgium.


"Can you remember how we welcomed the teams that came here
(Portugal) for Euro 2004? I want Belgium to get the same kind of
reception," said Scolari.


Portugal and Belgium are in a precarious situation in Group A,
both on seven points and occupy fourth and fifth place
respectively.


A loss for either team would seriously jeapordise qualification
for the finals to be held in Switzerland and Austria beginning
June 7.


Finland top the group on eleven points with Serbia and Poland in
second and third on ten points.

