

Authorities in China have jailed three senior judges in Shenzhen
for corruption in the southern city's biggest ever graft scandal.


A court convicted retired judge Liao Zhaohui and divisional court
chiefs Cai Xiaoling and Zhang Tinghua of unspecified graft
crimes, the China Daily said in a report citing the Shenzhen
Intermediate court.


They were among five senior judges arrested recently after the
local prosecution office investigated their alleged acts of
corruption, the report said.


A series of raids last year led to the arrest of a court vice-
president, three division heads and a retired judge, the report
said.


The probe, which highlighted the endemic corruption in the
Chinese judicial system, unfolded after prosecutors arrested
judge Liao, who allegedly took bribes while working in the
execution division.


Cai and Zhang allegedly appointed certain auction houses to deal
with seized assets in bankruptcy cases.


The report gave no details on Pei Hongquan, vice-president of
Shenzhen Intermediate People's Court, and Pei's former wife, Li
Huiliu, a court president, both arrested in late September.


Corruption in China is rampant in a government system that
Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao said this month results from an
"overconcentration of power without effective and proper
restraint and oversight."


The problem has become one of the top causes of social discontent
in booming China, sparking thousands of public disturbances every
year, with officials repeatedly pledging to do more but
apparently too little effect.

