

US President George W. Bush on Friday accused his Democratic foes
of undermining US troops in Iraq by passing a bill that ties war
funding to a pullout deadline and vowed to veto the measure.


Bush denounced the House of Representatives's passage of a 124
-billion-dollar emergency spending package that includes an
August 2008 withdrawal deadline, inserted by Democrats, as "an
act of political theater."


"We're beginning to see some signs of progress" in Iraq, said
Bush. "Yet to score political points, the Democratic majority in
the House has shown it is willing to undermine the gains our
troops are making on the ground."


"As I've made clear for weeks, I will veto if it comes to my
desk," the president said in response to the 218-212 House vote.


The spending package for the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq would
tie the deployment of combat forces to strict standards for rest,
equipment and training of troops.


It also would create benchmarks that would hold the Iraqi
government accountable for progress toward self-governance and
security.


If the Iraqis fail to meet the objectives, a withdrawal of troops
would have to begin within months.


No matter how the Iraqi government performs, the bill calls for
withdrawals to begin in March 2008 and for most US combat forces
to be out of Iraq by August 31, 2008.


"Democrats want to make clear that they oppose the war in Iraq.
They made their point," said Bush. "The Democrats have sent their
message. Now it's time to send their money."


"Our most solemn responsibility is to support our troops in the
war on terror. Yet today a narrow majority in the House of
Representatives abdicated its responsibility by passing a war
spending bill that has no chance of becoming law and brings us no
closer to getting our troops the resources they need to do their
job," said Bush.

