

Nearly 800 people have died after a meningitis epidemic spread
from Burkina Faso to eight other western African countries since
the start of the year, the United Nations said Friday.


Calling for urgent help to contain the epidemic, the head of the
UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) in
West Africa, Herve Ludovic de Lys, warned it could spread further
in coming months.


"The fluidity of borders and traditional seasonal migration which
caracterize the Sahel from May-June could rapidly spread the
illness in the weeks to come," he said in a written statement.


Although Burkina Faso has by far the largest number of cases,
Benin, Chad, Ghana, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Nigeria and Togo
have also been affected to differing degrees.


The OCHA statement said: "8,557 cases, including 798 deaths, have
been notified in West Africa since the beginning of the year."


Burkina Faso, one of the world's poorest countries, is in the so-
called "meningitis belt" that runs from Senegal across the
southern Sahara to Ethiopia. The current epidemic has killed 583
people there.


On Monday, the World Health Organisation pledged millions of
emergency vaccines to Burkina Faso and in the last two days the
authorities have been handing out free doses in the capital
Ouagadougou.


"We had not predicted (an epidemic) on such a scale," health
ministry chief Gabriel Ouango told national radio, adding that
800,000 doses were available to the capital's residents aged
between two and 30.


Five other vaccination sites have been set up in the southeast,
which has been worst hit by the epidemic, and others are planned
for the interior region. Meningitis, which is an airborne virus
infecting the brain and spinal cord, usually breaks out during
the December-January dry season when it is carried by warm, dry
winds. Symptoms include fever, rashes and vomiting.

