

England's Dan Wheldon will start his bid for a third straight win
at Homestead- Miami Speedway from pole position after edging Sam
Hornish in qualifying on Friday.


Wheldon claimed the pole for the Indy 300, the first race of the
season, over the defending IndyCar Series champion Hornish by 28
ten-thousandths (.0028) of a second.


Wheldon's pole speed was 214.322 miles per hour around the one-
mile oval. Hornish clocked 214.298 mph.


The difference in time was 24.9438 seconds for Wheldon to 24.9466
seconds for Hornish.


"Homestead obviously seems to be a very good place for me,"
Wheldon said. "In 2007, right now everybody has zero points and
nobody has won the race yet, so we'll have to see what I can do.
I think it's going to be a very competitive race, and the fans
are going to be in for a treat."


Hornish, who will make his 100th career start, will start on the
front row for the seventh time in eight races.


He claimed the championship last season when he and Wheldon
finished tied on points, but Hornish had four victories to
Wheldon's two.


"It seems that Sam and I are attached at the hip on the race
track," Wheldon said of their rivalry. "So it's no surprise that
here we are again. I think Sam's the guy to beat. There is an
extreme amount of mutual respect out there between Sam and I. We
push each other to another level.


"I'm certainly not going to let him get the better of me,
though."


A trio of drivers from Andretti Green Racing - Scotland's Dario
Franchitti, Brazilian Tony Kanaan and Marco Andretti - rounded
out the top five.

