

The family of Pakistan's murdered cricket coach Bob Woolmer has
been advised that his body will remain in Jamaica while an
inquest is held, local television reported on Friday.


Jamaican authorities have ordered that an inquest be held before
a jury as soon as possible, TVJ said.


It said Woolmer's family has been notified of the decision to
keep the body in Jamaica until the inquest is concluded.


Meanwhile, two members of the Pakistani team -- a trainer and a
physiotherapist -- will remain in the Caribbean country while the
rest of the rest of the team flies home on Saturday.


"We promised the family to stay until everything is sorted out,"
Darryn Lifson, the team's physiotherapist, told AFP.


He said that Murray Stevenson, a trainer, would also stay. Both
are from South Africa, like Woolmer.


"The police informed the family first, then us, with everything,
and then we told the team," Lifson.


It did not say why the two were staying behind, which comes after
forensic experts took DNA samples and fingerprints from each of
the team's members.


Deputy police commissioner Mark Shields stressed the team were
"not being treated any differently from anyone else at this
stage."


"It is important to eliminate as well as identify suspects," he
told TVJ.


The TV station also said two Pakistani officials were due to
arrive in Kingston to liaise with police at the request of
Jamaican authorities.


Woolmer, 58, a former England international, was found in his
room Sunday and declared dead in hospital, a day after Pakistan's
shock defeat to Ireland saw the 1992 World Cup winners crash out
of this year's competition.


Jamaican police announced on Thursday that a pathologist's report
showed he had been strangled to death, but said no arrests had
been made and gave no indication they had any hard leads.

