

A former top member of US President George W. Bush's
administration on Friday admitted lying to a Senate committee
about his relations with disgraced former Washington
superlobbyist Jack Abramoff.


Steven Griles, former deputy secretary of the Department of the
Interior (DOI), pleaded guilty to obstructing a Senate
investigation into Abramoff influence- peddling in the Interior
Department.


He faces five years in jail and a fine of up to 250,000 dollars.
Sentencing is scheduled for June 26.


Griles is the most senior Bush figure to be tainted by the
Abramoff scandal.


"Griles admitted that he knowingly and willfully lied and
concealed material information about the relationship that he had
with Abramoff," the Justice Department said in a statement.


In 2005 Griles -- at the time the number two Interior Department
official -- lied in testimony to a Senate committee about his
relationship with the lobbyist.


The committee was investigating allegations of Abramoff
misconduct related to his lobbying for native American Indian
tribes which operated or wanted to operate casinos. Griles was in
charge of American Indian affairs at the DOI.


Abramoff, who began a nearly six-year prison sentence in
November, pleaded guilty to conspiracy to corrupt public
officials, mail fraud and tax evasion in an operation that
involved providing money and favors to Republican legislators.


Abramoff was one of the top Washington lobbyists during the
Republican rise to power in Congress in the 1990s, and expanded
his influence with Bush's capture of the White House in December
2000.


Griles is the ninth person convicted in the Abramoff case.

