

US President George W. Bush's chief spokesman, Tony Snow, said
Friday he will have surgery Monday to remove a fingertip-sized
growth from his abdomen and will be on sick leave for several
weeks.


Snow, who underwent surgery and chemotherapy for colon cancer in
2005, said he was getting the operation "out of an aggressive
sense of caution" that it might be cancer despite a series of
tests that came back negative.


"So I'll come back here a little lighter," he joked, adding that
he expected to be gone for about three or four weeks, during
which deputy press secretary Dana Perino will take over his
duties.


"Don't leap to any cancer conclusions about what's going on with
me, because we don't know," he said, quipping: "We know it's
coming out, and I know I'll be back soon. And I'll miss you each
and every day, especially when I'm sore and filled up with
drugs."


Snow, who became Bush's press secretary in April 2006, made his
announcement one day after Democratic presidential hopeful John
Edwards and his wife Elizabeth announced that she had cancer but
that his campaign would continue.


"She is doing a wonderful thing," said Snow. "The biggest problem
you have a lot of times with cancer is just flat-out fear. And
when you're seeing Elizabeth Edwards saying, 'I'm going to
embrace life and I'm going to move forward,' that is a wonderful
thing."


"Once you decide that you're going to embrace life, you become a
much better patient. And once you decide that you proceed with a
sense of hope and optimism, people are going to rally to your
side, and they do," said Snow.

