

World number one Tiger Woods, making two title defenses this
week, fired a bogey-free six-under par 66 here Friday to seize a
two-stroke lead after 36 holes of the World Golf Championship CA
Championship.


Woods stood on seven-under par 137 after the second round of the
eight million- dollar event at Doral's Blue Course, two strokes
ahead of Australian Rod Pampling over a layout better known as
the "Blue Monster".


Woods has won the US PGA event at Doral the past two years and
captured the World Golf American Express event last year in
England, the event that moved to Doral this year in a major
revamping of the US tournament schedule.


Reigning British Open and PGA Championship winner Woods will seek
his third major in a row and the 13th of his career in two weeks
at the Masters, the first major championship of the year, at
famed Augusta National Golf Club.


Woods opened with a pair of birdies, then began the back nine
with three birdies in a row and cemented his perch atop the
leaderboard with another at the penultimate hole.


South Africa's Ernie Els fired his second 70 to stand on 140 with
compatriot Trevor Immelman, Denmark's Thomas Bjorn, Sweden's
Henrik Stenson, Australian Aaron Baddeley and Americans Charles
Howell and Zach Johnson.


Spain's Sergio Garcia was in a group on 141 that also included
Britain's Ian Poulter, American Tom Pernice and Australians
Robert Allenby and Geoff Ogilvy.


Fiji's Vijay Singh, who won last week at Bay Hill, was on 142
with Sweden's Niclas Fasth, Argentina's Angel Cabrera and
Americans Brett Wetterich and Stewart Cink.

