

A Canadian pet food manufacturer said Friday it would compensate
US and Canadian owners of animals that died or became ill from
ingesting its tainted products.


"In regard to the issue of compensation, to the extent that we
identify that the cause of any expenses incurred are related to
the food, Menu will take responsibility for that," said Paul
Henderson, president of Menu Foods.


But he denied negligence by the Toronto-based company. "We don't
believe ... that our quality was lax."


Menu Foods last week issued a massive recall of 60 million cans
and pouches of food made in the United States, and sold in 95
different brands, warning they could cause serious kidney
problems.


The New York state laboratory working with scientists from
Cornell University identified Friday a toxin used as rodent
poison in some countries in samples of the product, the New York
state agriculture commissioner said.


The toxin, called aminopterin, can cause cancers and birth
defects in humans and kidney damage in cats and dogs.


"How did this substance get in to our products? At this stage, we
don't know," Henderson told reporters.


He identified two manufacturing plants in Kansas and New Jersey
linked to the spoiled pet foods, and said a review of its
operations and testing of the recalled foods is underway.


"At this point, we have no reason to suspect the matter goes
beyond the recalled product," he said.


"The probability of tampering is considered remote."


Several people have filed suit in Canadian and US courts
following the deaths of their pets, including that of a cat
called Phoenix in Chicago and another called Samoya in the
northwestern state of Oregon.


"Our hearts and sympathies go out," Henderson told reporters.


"A pet is an important part of every family ... We are heartfelt
and heart stricken by the fact that anybody has suffered anything
or experienced any loss as a result of these events," he said.

