

Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad will not go to New York for
Saturday's UN Security Council meeting on Tehran's nuclear
programme because the United States was late in issuing him a
visa, an official said on Friday.


"President Ahmadinejad's trip has been made impossible because of
the lateness in supplying a visa by the United States," the
official told AFP under condition of anonymity.


"Because of this, it is not possible to get the visa to Tehran on
time, and the president's trip has therefore become virtually
impossible," he added.


"The United States deliberately issued the visas late to prevent
the president from going, and they are responsible. Also the
visas for the team members who would have accompanied him were
not issued, which makes the trip impossible," the official said.


Ahmadinejad had said he wanted to attend the Security Council
meeting at which a vote is expected on a new resolution
strengthening UN sanctions against Iranr.


The new draft, which toughens sanctions imposed in December in
response to Tehran's continued refusal to halt sensitive nuclear
work, was presented last week to the council's 10 non-permanent
members for their comments.


The sanctions package is contained in the draft by the council's
five veto- wielding members -- Britain, China, France, Russia and
the United States -- plus Germany.


The Security Council is expected to vote on Saturday on the
resolution over Iran's continued refusal to suspend uranium
enrichment -- the process that makes nuclear fuel but that in
highly extended form can also make atomic weapons.

