

Shares in Eurotunnel, operator of the Channel Tunnel linking
France and Britain, will resume trading on Euronext's Eurolist on
Tuesday after a 10-month suspension, Euronext said Friday.


Trading was suspended on the London Stock Exchange and Euronext
Paris in May 2006 as the company struggled with financial
difficulties and an overall 9.0 -billion-euro (12-billion-dollar)
debt burden.


The share at the time was worth 0.44 euros in Paris and 25 pence
in London.


Eurotunnel said in May 2006 it was unable to file its 2005
financial accounts within the time specified by London stock
market regulations. It also said it would not be able to state it
was a viable company until restructuring plans had been agreed.


In November, holders of the company's 6.3 billion euros in bank
debt as well as its suppliers voted in favour of a safeguard plan
for Eurotunnel, which was approved by the Paris Commercial Court
in January.


On March 7 chairman Jacques Gounon told journalists that trading
in the company's shares would likely to resume in 10-15 days
after Eurotunnel reported that it had stemmed losses last year
following a catastrophic 12 months in 2005.


The group said it made a loss of 204 million euros (268 million
dollars) in 2006 compared with a loss of 2.808 billion euros in
2005.


It said operating profit had increased by 42 percent to 326
million euros in 2006 compared with 230 million euros in 2005.


Publication of the results was an important step in the
implementation of  the safeguard plan, under which company debt
has been cut in half and management is to offer shareholders new
shares in a company called Groupe Eurotunnel (GET SA), which will
replace the existing Eurotunnel company.


But the swap can only be put into effect once Eurotunnel shares
begin to trade again on the stock market.

