

The US State Department is dispatching an official to the
Philippines to look into charges that security forces are behind
a spate of extrajudicial killings, the foreign department said
Saturday.


US deputy assistant secretary of state for East Asia and Pacific
affairs Eric John will arrive sometime in April, Foreign Affairs
Secretary Alberto Romulo was quoted as saying.


The move comes after both a US Senate panel and a UN rapporteur
in recent months linked Philippine security forces to many of the
killings of leftists.


The Inter-Parliamentary Union is also sending a three-member
fact-finding team to the Philippines in April to look into the
murders.


"He (John) has requested to visit the Philippines so he would
know more about what we're doing and he wants to look at our side
because of what was projected there is the propaganda so he wants
get at the facts and figures," said Romulo.


"We'll be happy to talk to him and we really welcome him because
we want to tell him what's happening, including the evidence and
witnesses that we have," he added.


Human rights groups have charged that over 800 people have been
killed since 2001 during the administration of President Gloria
Arroyo.


A commission created by Arroyo has also implicated security
forces in the murders.


However the Philippine military has denied it is behind the
killings and charged that communist insurgents may have carried
out some of the murders as part of an internal purge.


They have also said that some of the alleged victims listed by
the human rights groups have turned out alive.


United Nations special rapporteur Philip Alston last month said
the military was linked to most of the killings and was "in
almost total denial" over the deaths.


Earlier this month, deputy assistant secretary Eric John told the
US Senate panel that "we are encouraged by the steps that the
Philippine government has taken to date, but we will continue to
make clear that more progress is essential."

