

Polish Defence Minister Aleksander Szczyglo insisted Friday that
Poland would only host a defensive missile system under a
bilateral agreement with the United States, not as a NATO
project.


"If Poland accepts the American proposal, it will be in the
framework of bilateral relations," Szczyglo said on TVN24 news
television station.


"The proposal (to house missiles) was put to us by the United
States, not NATO."


US Assistant Secretary of State for European Affairs, Daniel
Fried, was in Poland this week to sound out government and
opposition leaders on Washington's plans to base 10 unarmed
Interceptor missiles in Poland and a radar in the Czech Republic,
to thwart potential attacks, from Iran in particular.


Parts of the shield are already in place in the United States,
Britain and Greenland, and the plan is to have the system fully
operational by 2011-2012.


Last year NATO completed a feasibility study which concluded that
Europe does face the threat of missile attack and that it is
technically possible to build a defence system, but no action has
been taken on it.


Germany has expressed concern about Washington's plans to base
more elements of its missile defence shield in Europe, saying it
could be divisive and spark a new arms race on the continent.


"We have repeatedly warned against going it alone because we are
trying to make it clear that we should strive to keep Europe
together on this issue," government spokesman Ulrich Wilhelm told
a press briefing earlier this week.


"This should be discussed carefully and calmly within NATO," he
added.


Russia, meanwhile, has said Washington's plan were disrespectful
to the United States' EU and NATO partners.


The Kremlin has also expressed concern that the missile shield,
based in its backyard, could target Russia.

