

European stock markets ended the week in positive territory
Friday, bolstered by better-than-expected US data and a strong
showing in the oil sector.


The London FTSE 100 index gained 0.34 percent to close at
6,339.40 points while in Paris the CAC 40 rose 0.65 percent to
5,634.75. In Frankfurt the Dax added 0.62 percent to finish at
6,899.06.


The Euro Stoxx 50 index of leading eurozone shares advanced 0.52
percent to finish at 4,191.58.


On the currency market the dollar firmed against the euro on
stronger-than- expected figures on US home sales that eased
concerns about the health of the country's housing market.


The single European currency in late trade was at 1.3295 dollars
after 1.3328 late Thursday in New York.


Wall Street shares traded modestly higher at midday, reversing
early losses after the report on US home sales.


At 1610 GMT, the Dow Jones Industrial Average traded up 0.27
percent at 12,494.79.


The Nasdaq composite edged up 0.08 percent to 2,453.75.


Wall Street had a generally positive reaction to the latest news
on the housing front, which has been the weakest sector of the US
economy.


The National Association of Realtors reported US home sales rose
3.9 percent in February as the struggling real estate market
showed some signs of a rebound.


The annualized pace of 6.69 million was well ahead of market
expectations of a pace of 6.30 million. But median home prices
fell.


"The better-than-expected report provides some hope that a bottom
is close in the US housing correction -- at least on the sales
front," said Sal Guatieri, economist at BMO Capital Markets.


"That said, the report is just one in a sea of red housing
indicators of late, and home prices are likely to ease further as
the correction unfolds."


In London oil issues were well supported as crude prices surged
above 63 dollars a barrel on news that 15 British sailors had
been captured by Iranian forces while operating in Iraqi
territorial waters.


BP rose 2.46 percent to 541.50 pence while Royal Dutch Shell
gained 1.71 percent to 1,670 pence.


But rising oil prices dampened interest in British Airways, which
fell 1.52 percent to 518 pence.


In Paris oil giant Total added 1.37 percent to 51.70 euros a day
after its chief executive, Christophe de Margerie, was placed
under judicial investigation in connection with a probe into
alleged corruption surrounding an Iranian gas deal.


Electricity utility EDF also benefited from rising oil prices,
moving up 2.05 percent to 61.37 euros.


Aerospace group and Airbus parent EADS jumped 2.57 percent to
22.76 euros on closer ties between Airbus and the Russian
aeronautics industry.


In Frankfurt automaker Volkswagen surged 6.90 percent to close at
117.70 euros on speculation that Porsche, its principal
shareholder, could be preparing a public stock offering.


Elsewhere in Europe there were gains of 0.38 percent in Madrid,
0.17 percent in Zurich, 2.65 percent in Milan, 0.68 percent in
Brussels and 0.95 percent in Amsterdam.


In Asia on Friday, Tokyo's benchmark Nikkei-225 index of leading
shares gained 0.35 percent to end the week at 17,480.61 points.


Hong Kong's key Hang Seng Index closed flat at 19,692.64 points.

