

The brand name of "Proton", Malaysia's ailing national carmaker,
will not be wiped out amid negotiations on a possible merger with
foreign partners, Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi said.


"We cannot decide to forget the name Proton and to allow it to
disappear," state Bernama news agency quoted Abdullah as saying
during an interview with CNBC television late Friday.


"Proton is a national car. Proton is a brand," Abdullah stressed.
He said a good foreign partner will help Proton develop in terms
of models, engines and technology, Bernama reported.


Abdullah said while the government wants to see Proton become
more competitive with a partner, it will insist on Proton
maintaining its own brand name.


He said Proton is currently only in talks with Volkswagen but
those if negotiations failed, Proton could begin talks with US
auto giant General Motors, Bernama reported.


Malaysian officials last week vowed to meet a deadline at the end
of March to choose a strategic partner for Proton but said they
were still mulling both local and foreign players.


The Malaysian government owns 59 percent of Proton, including a
43 percent stake held by its investment arm, Khazanah Nasional.


The government is under intense pressure to find a partner for
loss-making Proton, which has seen a sharp decline in sales due
to increased competition from local and imported cars.


Volkswagen, General Motors and three Malaysian automotive firms
have expressed interest in taking a stake in the company.


Proton's market share has fallen sharply after the gradual
removal of duties which has made imports more affordable while a
persistent reputation for poor quality and unimaginative models
besieged the carmaker.


Analysts say a foreign partner is vital to keeping Proton afloat
but the government has been reluctant to cede control of the
national company to foreign hands.

