

Frenchman Florent Serra eliminated US eighth seed James Blake 7-6
(10/8), 2-6, 6-3 here Friday to reach the third round of a 6.9
million-dollar WTA and ATP Masters Series event.


Serra, ranked 64th in the world, avenged an Indian Wells loss to
Blake in exactly two hours and will next face the winner of a
later match between Spain's Feliciano Lopez and Russian Marat
Safin.


Belgian second seed Justine Henin advanced to the third round on
the women's side while Australian Lleyton Hewitt withdrew because
of a back injury.


Henin, fighting off a cold, eliminated American Vania King 6-4,
6-1 to book a third-round date with France's Virginie Razzano,
who eliminated Germany's Martina Muller 6-4, 7-6 (7/2) in another
second-round encounter.


"I wasn't at my best, far from that," Henin said. "It was tough,
pretty windy out there. I needed a little bit of time to get used
to the conditions. Second set was much better, but I need to
improve. I need some matches."


Henin said this is not one of her favorite events.


"I've never played very well here in the past, but the past is
the past," she said. "Really no explanation about that. I hope I
can have a better tournament this year. I hope that one day I
will play well here in Miami."


The new world number one tries not to ponder her top ranking.


"I don't think too much about that. I don't think it does change
anything," she said. "When you're on the court the ranking
doesn't mean anything. It's only on the paper. On the court we
have to prove we're playing good tennis."


Hewitt was replaced by US lucky loser Robert Kendrick, who
defeated Dutchman Raemon Sluiter 6-4, 6-4.


Back problems hindered the Aussie star at Indian Wells after he
won his 26th career title at Las Vegas earlier this month.


"My back hasn't come up as well as I would have liked from last
week, which is frustrating for me," Hewitt said. "Not a whole
heap I can do about it at the moment, but I don't want to go out
there and play in pain. It's frustrating.


"I'm not going to go out and risk further injury. It's the last
thing I need at the moment."


Hewitt's departure eases the path for Scottish teen Andy Murray,
the 12th seed who could have faced the Aussie in the third round.


The British star still has Chilean fifth seed Fernando Gonzalez
and US third seed Andy Roddick in his quarter of the draw.


Also reaching the third round on the women's side was China's Li
Na, who ousted Austrian Tamira Paszek 6-2, 6-0. She will next
face the winner between Slovenia's Katarina Srebotnik and
Russia's Alina Jidkova.

