

The US government Friday ruled out securing a free-trade
agreement with Malaysia before President George W. Bush loses his
"fast-track" trade authority in three months.


"We made clear to the Malaysian government the requirements of
our Trade Promotion Authority and that, at this point, submission
of a US-Malaysia FTA under the current TPA statute is not
possible," Steve Norton, spokesman for US Trade Representative
Susan Schwab, said in a statement.


Bush loses his TPA power, which allows deals to be fast-tracked
through the Democratic-led Congress, at the end of June. That
gives US negotiators up to March 31 to present a deal for a
mandatory 90-day congressional review.


Despite the failure to meet the deadline, Norton said the United
States and its 10th largest trading partner had agreed to
continue talks. A Malaysian team is scheduled to come to the
United States in mid-April for consultations.


"We look forward to concluding a high-quality, comprehensive FTA,
and obtaining legislative approval of such an agreement," the
spokesman said.


The two sides launched their talks about a year ago and Norton
said "significant progress has been made toward conclusion of
such an agreement, but a number of important issues remain
outstanding."


Among sore points for US negotiators are Malaysia's positive
discrimination policies for its majority-ethnic Malay community.
They give preferential treatment to Malay-run companies in the
award of government contracts.


After the last round of talks, Malaysian officials informed
Washington that they needed time to seek a political consensus
within their cabinet on how to proceed on such issues.


"Resolution of that process is a necessary step before the
negotiations can continue," Norton said.


"As we have stated repeatedly, however, substance, not timing, is
the determinative factor that will guide our participation in
these negotiations."

