

US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said she hoped to speed up
reconciliation between Israel and its Arab neighbors as she
prepared to leave Friday on a new tour of the Middle East.


In order to find "a solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict,
you need the energy and the help of moving forward on the Arab-
Israel side, not at the end of the process, but earlier on the
process," she said.


"It's one thing to say 'when there is a Palestinian state, we
will be ready for Arab-Israeli reconciliation,'" she said.


But all parties also needed to determined "what can early stages
of Arab-Israeli reconciliation do to help a Palestinian state,"
she said.


Rice is to start her tour in Egypt, where she plans to meet the
leaders of Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Jordan and the United Arab
Emirates, ahead of a key Arab League summit in Riyadh on
Wednesday and Thursday.


She said she hoped an Arab League peace plan "would be offered
again and offered in a way that suggests that there might be
active follow-up to the initiative."


Under a Saudi peace initiative adopted at an Arab summit in
Beirut in 2002, the Arab world would agree to normalize ties with
Israel in exchange for its withdrawal from all occupied Arab
land.


"It would be a very good thing if at some point, the Arab
initiative provided a basis for discussion rather than just
stated it," Rice said.


"It's almost at this point more important, given the upcoming
Riyadh summit, to have the discussions with the Arabs about re-
launching the Arab initiative, relaunching it in a way that
leaves open the possibility of active diplomacy.


"It will take a lot of discussions."

