

Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas said on Friday that Israel had
proposed a reciprocal truce to halt Israeli-Palestinian violence.


"The contemplated reciprocal truce is an Israel project, a
project presented to us by the Israeli government with a view to
establishing a reciprocal and simultaneous truce," Abbas said in
an interview on Israeli television.


"We are now working on this basis," he added, saying it would be
beneficial to both sides and rejecting suggestions by some in
Israel that Palestinian militants would use it as a chance to
rearm.


"If Israel had not considered it useful it would not have
proposed it," Abbas said.


He also insisted that any truce must be mutual, pointing out that
two unilateral ceasefires announced by the Palestinians had not
held.


The news comes a week after Abbas's Fatah party and the Hamas
party of prime minister Ismail Haniya formed a national unity
government, which was aimed at bringing an end to factional
fighting among Palestinians and to a diplomatic boycott and aid
freeze.


In a speech following his investiture, Haniya said his government
would seek to expand a truce with Israel, insisting that it be
"total and reciprocal."


Under a truce agreed last November 26, Israel pulled its troops
out of the Gaza Strip and committed itself not to launch any
attacks in exchange for the Palestinians putting a halt to
homemade rockets being fired at the Jewish state.


Since then, however, more than 100 rockets have been fired into
southern Israel from Gaza.

