

Wall Street shares ended modestly higher Friday after a stronger-
than-expected report on US home sales eased fears of economic
weakness ahead, offsetting the impact of a jump in oil prices.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed up 19.87 points (0.16
percent) at 12,481.01.


The Nasdaq composite added 4.44 points (0.18 percent) to 2,456.18
while the broad-market Standard and Poor's 500 rose 1.57 points
(0.11 percent) to 1,436.11.


Investors had a positive reaction to the latest news on the
housing front, which has been the weakest sector of the US
economy.


The National Association of Realtors reported US home sales rose
3.9 percent in February as the struggling real estate market
showed some signs of a rebound.


The annualized pace of 6.69 million was well ahead of market
expectations of a pace of 6.30 million. But median home prices
fell.


"The better-than-expected report provides some hope that a bottom
is close in the US housing correction -- at least on the sales
front," said Sal Guatieri, economist at BMO Capital Markets.


"That said, the report is just one in a sea of red housing
indicators of late, and home prices are likely to ease further as
the correction unfolds."


The positive economic news was partly offset by a jump in oil
prices to their highest level of the year. New York crude futures
rose 59 cents to close at 62.28 dollars a barrel after hitting
62.65 dollars, the highest since December 22.


Some analysts said the stock market appears overbought after the
strong gains from earlier this week, fueled by a market-friendly
message from the Federal Reserve.


"The stock market looks a little extended and could be ripe for a
very small pullback," said Fred Dickson at DA Davidson.


"We are entering earnings warning season. With the (Fed) sending
a message that current economic growth is mixed, some portfolio
managers may show some restraint on the buy-side until we get
well into earnings season."


Among stocks in focus, Palm rallied 37 cents or 2.1 percent to
18.10 dollars after the maker of smartphones and similar devices
posted better-than-expected earnings, even though it declined to
comment on speculation about a takeover deal.


Also on the tech front, 3Com added eight cents to 3.87 as the
network equipment group reported a narrower-than-expected loss.


Sporting goods maker Nike added 45 cents to 109.05  after the
group reported an eight percent rise in profits.


Citigroup fell 12 cents to 51.72 after a report that the US
banking giant might be mulling a bid for Dutch-based ABN Amro.


General Electric edged up a penny to 35.82 after the US
conglomerate offered 1.1 billion dollars for the credit arm of
Japan's Sanyo Electric.


Bonds swung lower, with the yield on the 10-year US Treasury bond
rising to 4.613 percent from 4.589 percent Thursday and that on
the 30-year bond at 4.799 percent from 4.782 percent. Bond yields
and prices move in opposite directions.

