

African campaign groups on Friday condemned Gambian President
Yahya Jammeh's "miracle" treatment for HIV/AIDS, saying it had no
scientific basis and that giving it to patients violated their
rights.


Members of the African Community Platform on HIV/AIDS said they
were "greatly concerned" by the remedy, which is based on
medicinal plants and a Koranic verse, and according to Jammeh can
cure the disease within days.


The president announced his discovery in January, and by the end
of the month ten HIV-positive patients had enrolled to receive
the treatment, a statement from the umbrella organisation said.


All participants were ordered to give up their antiretroviral
drugs, it noted.


The umbrella group warned the treatment "does not respect
scientific or ethnical norms and infringes on the patients' human
rights" and said they were "greatly concerned by this treatment
and its consequences."


It called on Jemmah to openly discuss the issue and urged the
Gambian authorities to allow the treatment to be studied by
international experts "to put to an end the confusion surrounding
it."


In February, UN envoy Fadzai Gwaradzimba was expelled from Gambia
after expressing doubts over Jammeh's miracle cure, suggesting it
could lead to irresponsible sexual behaviour.


The African Community Platform is made up of the African Council
of AIDS Service Organisations (Africaso), the Society for Women
Against Aids in Africa (SWAA) and the African Network for People
Living with HIV/AIDS (NAP).


Africaso was set up in 1991 to fight the spread of the disease
across Africa, according to the statement.


The Swaa, which was set up in 1988, aims to protect women in
particular from it and the NAP, created in 1993 promotes the
rights of all those infected.

