

The UN Security Council on Friday unanimously extended the
mandate of the UN assistance mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA) by a
year and hailed its expanded presence in the provinces.


The 15-member body endorsed a resolution that also stressed
UNAMA's role in promoting "a more coherent international
engagement" in support of Afghanistan, which is facing mounting
insecurity due to a resurgent Taliban-led insurgency.


The Council extended the mission's mandate through March 23,
2008, and welcomed UNAMA's "expanded presence in the provinces,
through regional and provincial offices, which support efforts to
coordinate and implement the country's economic reconstruction
blueprint."


The resolution also urged Afghan parties and groups to engage
constructively in an inclusive political dialogue and welcomed
the successful conclusion of the disarmament, demobilization and
reintegration process as well as the launch of the program of
disbandment of illegal armed groups.


It stressed the importance of meeting the blueprint's benchmarks
and timelines for progress on issues of "security, governance and
development as well as the cross-cutting issue of counter-
narcotics."


Earlier this month, the United Nations warned that, in a new blow
to eradication efforts, Afghanistan's opium crop was likely to
increase again this year after a record 50 percent jump in 2006.


A United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime report also pointed
out clear links between the spiralling Taliban insurgency and the
drugs trade in Afghanistan, which accounts for 90 percent of the
world's heroin.


UN officials also say that insecurity in Afghanistan is
restricting the delivery of assistance to needy people and
undermining successes in building the post- Taliban country.

