

Regional elections in Nigeria were marred by fraud, intimidation
and violence which could set a pattern for this weekend's
presidential vote, US-based Human Rights Watch (HRW) said
Tuesday.


"In several key states, the Nigerian government failed completely
in its obligation to conduct a free and fair election," said
HRW's Africa director, Peter Takirambudde, after Saturday's local
polls.


"Unless the government dramatically changes course, next
weekend's presidential elections will be undermined by the same
patterns of violence and fraud we saw last Saturday."


The polls to elect provincial governors and legislatures were
marked by widespread violence in which at least 21 people died.
Curfews were imposed on at least three restive states to quell
potential unrest.


The independent HRW said the results in at least two states,
Rivers and Anambra, should be cancelled and the polls re-run.


It said HRW monitors in those states saw open rigging of the
electoral process that deprived voters of the opportunity to cast
their ballots in many areas.


"Voting failed to take place in many areas where Nigeria's
Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) later reported
voter turnout in excess of 90 percent," it said.


The group said in several areas of Rivers state, local observers
and foreign journalists watched ballot boxes being stuffed with
ballots marked in favour of the ruling People's Democratic Party
(PDP) in full view of the public.


"Nigeria's regional and international partners should press the
Nigerian government to make all necessary changes to hold a free
and fair presidential election on April 21," it said.


The United States and European Union on Monday called on Nigeria
to curb violence and take action to prevent vote-rigging in the
presidential election.

