

African governments must urgently look at ways to adapt to
effects of rising temperatures on the continent most vulnerable
to climate change, authors of a United Nations report said
Tuesday.


As global temperatures rise due to greenhouse gasses that have
already gathered in the atmosphere, sub-Saharan Africa will have
to deal with an unavoidable one degree temperature increase.


"At least 0.6 degrees (centigrade) of global warming appears
unavoidable given how much greenhouse gas has accumulated in the
atmosphere," said Guy Midgley, a chief scientist of South
Africa's National Biodiversity Institute.


"The unavoidable regional warming is closer to one degree.
Adaptation is going to be necessary," he said, during a regional
briefing on the landmark Intergovernmental Panel of Climate
Change's fourth assessment report.


This could see the continent, whose marginal resources are
already stretched, suffering more droughts, floods and less food
as agriculture is affected by the rising temperatures.


Another of the report's authors, Pauline Dube, said a reduction
in water sources represented one of the most pressing threats to
countries in the region.


"South Africa and Botswana experience water stress. The city of
Gabarone is severely handicapped and often construction has to
stop. The city has to recycle water," said Dube, a senior
lecturer in the University of Botswana's environmental science
department.


The 1,500-page report, which has been developed over five years,
was presented as a summary for policymakers, who have the power
to find ways to adjust to the effects of climate change.

