

One of the three suicide bombs that killed 30 people in Algiers
last week might have been set off remotely, Algerian Interior
Minister Noureddine Zerhouni said in remarks reported on Tuesday.


Zerhouni said that evidence of the remote control device had been
discovered in one of the three cars used in the explosions which
targeted the prime minister's office in Algiers and two other
locations in the capital.


"With this discovery, one plausible hypothesis is that the bombs
were not detonated by the terrorist car drivers but by someone
else not far from the disaster," Zerhouni said in comments
reported in Tuesday's press.


The minister did not say in which vehicle evidence of the device
was found.


More than 220 people were also injured in the blasts, according
to the latest official toll. The attacks on April 11 were claimed
by Al-Qaeda's branch in North Africa.


Zerhouni said investigations so far had shown the vehicles used
in the explosions had come from abroad and that the perpetrators
had been "manipulated".


"I think they were sent on a mission and then blown up so as not
to leave any traces," the minister said, adding that the attacks
"proved that terrorism was diminishing".


"These desperate terrorists resorted to suicide attacks for
spectacular effect to prove that they're still around," Zehouni
said. "Terrorism is weakening because sowing death like they did
last week shows that they are desperate."


In the 1990s, Algeria was torn apart by violence as a result of a
vicious civil conflit between Islamic militants and the military.
The violence began after authorities annulled an election won by
an Islamist group.


Violence in Algeria has greatly decreased in recent years, though
the recent attacks have raised the prospect of a return to the
bloody days in the 1990s.

