

Hong Kong share prices closed firmer Tuesday after a see-saw
trading session as gains in heavyweights HSBC and China Mobile
offset profit-taking pressure after Monday's strong gains,
dealers said.


They said trading was cautious ahead of key economic data in the
US, including March consumer inflation and new residential
construction figures.


The Hang Seng Index closed up 31.08 points or 0.15 percent at
20,788.61, off a low of 20,635.63 and a high of 20,816.11.
Turnover was 63.21 billion Hong Kong dollars (8.1 billion US).


"Follow-through interest in HSBC and China Mobile helped offset
falls in other counters amid consolidation in the broader
market," said Kenny Tang, associate director at Tung Tai
Securities, noting that "profit-taking capped the upside for many
stocks."


"I believe the focus still is on China-related counters. The
strong performance of the mainland markets amid hopes over yuan
appreciation is providing continued support to China Mobile and
other H shares," he said.


China Mobile added 0.50 to 75.70, after surging 5.7 percent
Monday on expectations that it will report strong subscriber
numbers for March.


HSBC was up 0.50 at 143.40, tracking gains in its ADRs after news
that Singularis Holdings, an investment firm controlled by Saudi
investor Maan Abdulwahed Al-Sanea, has built up a 3.1 percent
stake in the global banking giant.


China Construction Bank was up 0.13 at 4.84, Bank of
Communications up 0.07 at 8.72 and Bank of China was up 0.02 at
4.04.


China Merchants Bank gained 0.58 at 19.68 after announcing 81.22
percent rise in 2006 net profit to 6.79 billion yuan (871 million
US).


Among local banks, Hang Seng Bank was up 0.10 at 113.10 and BOC
Hong Kong rose 0.08 at 19.46.


Properties were mixed, with Cheung Kong up 0.40 at 103.0 and Sun
Hung Kai Properties down 0.50 at 93.

