

Egyptian authorities said on Tuesday they had smashed a spy ring
working for Israel which included an Egyptian engineer with
Cairo's atomic energy commission, an Irishman and a Japanese
national.


The Egyptian had been arrested and had confessed, while the two
other suspects, including one named as Shiro Aizo, were being
hunted, state prosecutor Abdel Meduid Mahmud told reporters.


He said the Egyptian, Mohammed Sayyed Saber, was accused of
supplying information to the Israeli secret service Mossad on
"the different activities" of Egypt's atomic energy body.


Last September, Egypt announced it was resuming its civilian
nuclear programme after a freeze of 20 years and said it planned
to build at least one nuclear power plant by the year 2020.


Israel, which vehemently opposes Iran's nuclear programme despite
Tehran saying it is for peaceful use, is believed to be the only
nuclear-armed power in the Middle East with an estimated 200
warheads.


The Egyptian was questioned at Cairo airport as he returned from
Hong Kong, said the prosecutor, adding that the Irishman was not
detained and had fled.


Saber, with his two alleged accomplices being tried in absentia,
would face Egypt's high security court, the state prosecutor
said.


Neither the Irish nor Japanese embassies in Cairo could
immediately confirm the reports.


Israel's embassy spokesman Benny Sharoni said "all that we know
about this matter comes from the media. Up to the present, we
have no official Egyptian information on this subject."


The state security court is already holding one trial for alleged
spying for Israel, with one Egyptian in the dock and other
suspects again being tried in their absence.


Egypt and Israel signed a peace treaty in 1979.

