

The Taliban are waiting for Afghan authorities to contact them
over two French aid workers and eight Afghans whom they kidnapped
this month, a militant spokesman said Tuesday.


The Islamists have been holding two French nationals and three of
their Afghan colleagues since seizing them in the southwestern
province of Nimroz on April 3. Five Afghan medics snatched late
March are also being held.


A videotape showing the French man and woman was shown on
Canadian television at the weekend. Paris says it has not
received any demands from the kidnappers.


"We're waiting for the government to contact us over the French
nationals and Afghan doctors," Taliban spokesman Yousuf Ahmadi
told AFP from an unknown location by telephone.


"So far no one has contacted us about this," said Ahmadi, who
often calls media to claim attacks on behalf of the insurgents,
including a blast which killed five UN workers in Kandahar
earlier Tuesday.


President Hamid Karzai's spokesman Karim Rahimi told a press
conference Tuesday that authorities were working "very seriously"
to secure the release of the hostages, adding that he could not
give details for security reasons.


French President Jacques Chirac called Karzai last week to demand
his support for efforts to free the French workers of Terre
d'Enfance (A World for Our Children).


However the Afghan leader has said that the government will not
make any more hostage deals with the Taliban following the
controversial release of five rebels in exchange for a kidnapped
Italian last month.


An Afghan translator and driver who were seized with Italian
journalist Daniele Mastrogiacomo in early March were both
beheaded after the government refused to negotiate for their
lives, eliciting howls of protest.


Afghan foreign Minister Rangeen Dadfar Spanta said on Sunday that
kidnapping would become an "industry" for the rebels if more
deals are made.

