

Security is being stepped up in India's western state of Gujarat
following the deaths of around a dozen rare Asiatic lions in
recent weeks, a senior wildlife official said Tuesday.


More than 10 Asiatic lions have been reported killed by poachers
or drowned after falling into wells over the past two months in
Gir National Park -- the world's only natural habitat of the rare
cats.


The 1,400 square kilometre (560 square mile) Gir sanctuary is
home to 359 lions, according to the most recent census, conducted
in 2005.


"The process to hire up to 600 people who will act as informers
has already started," a senior government official, who did not
wish to be named, told AFP from the capital of Gujarat,
Gandhinagar.


Forest officials will be given 100 motorcycles and fencing will
be erected around wells to prevent the endangered animals from
falling in, the official said.


Earlier this month, the state government announced additional
funding of 400 million rupees (9.5 million dollars) for
conservation efforts to protect the lions.


A panel of wildlife experts will also study how the lions died
and recommend measures to end the killings, the government said
last week.


"There has been deep thought over poaching incidents. The
government is working in a very rigorous manner," the official
said.


A huge shortage of management and technological resources is
hampering conservation efforts, the official added.


Some 30 suspects have been detained or arrested since the first
poaching incident came to light. Police recovered claws and axes
from some of the suspects.


The number of Asiatic lions plummeted from around 1,000 a century
ago to just 20 in 1913 but the creation of the Gir sanctuary
after India's independence from British colonial rule in 1947
helped revive the population.


The Asiatic lion became the symbol for the modern Republic of
India.

