

A captured militant from the Jemaah Islamiyah extremist group
sent explosives to Indonesia's religiously divided Poso to be
used in bombing attacks, a report said Tuesday.


Abu Isa alias Qomari Sutarjo said he sent 120 kilograms (264
pounds) of TNT to Poso, on Sulawesi island, through an
intermediary before his capture by anti- terror police last
month.


"It (the explosive) was planned to be used in Poso," Abu was
quoted as saying from his jail cell by the Media Indonesia
newspaper.


The comments are certain to intensify concerns that the Al-Qaeda
linked JI group is fuelling unrest in the Poso area, where
Muslims and Christians live in roughly equal numbers. JI has been
blamed for other deadly attacks in Indonesia.


Violence flared in Poso town and the surrounding district in 2000
and 2001, pitting Muslims against Christians and leading to about
1,000 deaths. Intermittent violence and tension have continued
since.


Poso was thrown into the international spotlight in 2005 when
Islamic militants beheaded three teenage Christian schoolgirls, a
crime that drew wide condemnation.


Two home-made bombs exploded last Sunday in Poso, but caused no
casualties.


South Sulawesi police chief Badrodin Haiti said the explosives
were home-made bombs using PVC casing and containing metal
shards.


Abu was captured with six other militants in raids in Yogyakarta.
The March arrests led to the discovery of hidden arsenals of
guns, ammunition and explosives.

