

The European Union welcomed Tuesday a reform action plan unveiled
by Turkey aimed at bringing the country into line with norms
needed to join the bloc.


"This is, of course, very much welcomed by the European
Commission ... and this is what is actually expected from any
candidate country," a spokeswoman on enlargement issues told
reporters.


She said however that it was too early for the EU's executive
body to comment on the content of the plan -- essentially a
programme of technical reforms and a timetable for Turkey to
achieve them by 2013.


The spokeswoman also noted that the speed at which Turkey
undertakes reform would dictate how soon it joins Europe's rich
club.


Turkey's EU membership talks, which began in October 2005 and
have been plagued with difficulties, are expected to last at
least a decade and Ankara has been given no guarantee that it
will even be allowed in at the end.


Many member nations are wary of inviting in a huge, relatively
poor and mainly- Muslim state which would, under EU rules, have
voting rights similar to major powers like Britain or Italy.


Candidates for membership are required to adopt norms in 35
policy areas. Owing to a trade dispute with EU member Cyprus,
which Ankara refuses to recognise, Turkey is currently allowed to
open chapters but not to close them.


Ending a long hiatus in the talks, the EU last month began
negotiations with Turkey on "enterprise and industry policy,"
only the second chapter opened.


Turkish Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul in Ankara earlier Tuesday
unveiled a reform programme outlining a timetable for completing
legislative amendments and other legal regulations by 2013.


The aim is to bring Turkey in line with EU standards in areas
ranging from transport and food safety to customs, competition
policies and the environment.

