

Iraq's interior ministry on Tuesday firmly denied a claim by an
Al-Qaeda-led militant group that it had kidnapped and killed 20
Iraqi policemen.


"The 'Islamic State of Iraq' is claiming it kidnapped a number of
police. We checked the report and we found out it was untrue. It
is a misleading report," said Brigadier General Abdel Karim
Khalaf.


Khalaf, director of the interior ministry's national command
centre, said: "It is funny that they are speaking about
kidnapping... Our police reports say no policemen are missing."


Separately, defence ministry spokesman Mohammed al-Askari said no
Iraqi soldiers were missing.


Earlier, the Islamic State of Iraq -- an alliance of Sunni groups
headed by Al- Qaeda -- said in an Internet message that it had
executed 20 Iraqi policemen kidnapped last week north of Baghdad.


The group promised to release a video to prove their claim.


On March 4, the militants did release a video of a previous
massacre in which they gunned down at least 18 kidnapped police,
in an incident that was confirmed by the Iraqi authorities.


This week's message said the alleged new batch of captives had
been killed after Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki's government
refused a demand that all Sunni women held by the interior
ministry be released.


Iraq's interior ministry forces are dominated by officers from
the country's Shiite majority, and are often accused of abuses by
Sunnis.


The group also demanded to be allowed to punish officers accused
of raping a Sunni woman two months ago at the start of a security
operation in the capital and those involved in a massacre in the
northern town of Tal Afar.

