

British Prime Minister Tony Blair lamented Tuesday the lack of a
reasonable dialogue with Iran, reiterating London's readiness for
a "different relationship" despite Tehran's hardline stance.


His comments came as Iran said it was working "continuously" to
expand its nuclear programme at an ultra-sensitive facility, in
defiance of United Nations calls on Tehran to stop its
controversial atomic activities.


"We have wanted Iran to be in compliance with its international
obligations," Blair said in London at his monthly press
conference.


"But we've said at the time, if Iran wants a different
relationship, we stand ready to have one."


"What we want in the end is to make sure that the whole of that
region is more stable and more peaceful ... but we need to have
some echo back from the Iranian government."


He paid tribute to the Iranian people, who he described as young,
dynamic and entrepreneurial, with a strong interest in travel and
new technology.


"It's a great shame if we can't have a better and more reasonable
dialogue with the government. We stand ready to have that
dialogue if they want it," he added.


In Tehran on Tuesday, the head of Iran's atomic energy agency
Gholam Reza Aghazadeh said that Tehran was employing "maximum
effort" to install centrifuges at a plant in Natanz, central
Iran.


Iran has said it ultimately wants to install 50,000 uranium
enriching centrifuges at the plant although its medium-term goal
was to put in place 3,000 units.


The UN Security Council has already imposed two sets of sanctions
on Iran over its refusal to suspend uranium enrichment, and the
Islamic republic faces further punitive measures if it does not
comply.


The United States has refused to rule out the option of military
action against Iran should sanctions fail to work. Iran insists
that its nuclear programme is peaceful.

