

The United States Tuesday advised its citizens not to use
Indonesian airlines after a spate of recent accidents.


American aviation authorities have revised down Indonesia's
airline safety category, the US embassy here said.


"On April 16, 2007, the US Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)
announced that it has revised Indonesia's safety oversight
category from Category 1 to Category 2," said the statement
posted on the embassy's website.


"Whenever possible, Americans travelling to and from Indonesia
should fly directly to their destinations on international
carriers from countries whose civil aviation authorities meet
international aviation safety standards," it said.


Indonesia has been hit by a string of deadly transport accidents
including plane crashes, raising doubts about the enforcement of
safety standards.


A Garuda jet burst into flames and shot off the runway in the
city of Yogyakarta last month, killing 21 people.


On New Year's Day an Adam Air Boeing 737-400 carrying 102 people
disappeared from the skies, with only small pieces of the plane
found since.


Indonesia is also subject to a litany of minor plane accidents.
Last week a Garuda plane landed with a burst tyre and in
February, an Adam Air craft bent almost double on landing. No one
was hurt in those incidents.


Tuesday's statement said the FAA based its safety downgrade on a
controversial audit from the Indonesian civil aviation agency
which revealed that none of the nation's 54 airlines had met
minimum safety standards.


Last month's audit from the Indonesian Directorate General of
Civil Aviation also issued a warning to several airlines to
comply with safety standards in three months or face closure.


Indonesia, an archipelago nation of more than 17,000 islands,
relies largely on air transportation.


Deregulation of the industry in 1997 gave rise to a rapid growth
in air travel, triggering price wars and, experts say,
compromising safety standards in the drive for profit.

