

America's Cup challengers took to the water here Tuesday hopeful
of getting on with the business of racing after light winds
forced the cancellation of Monday's opening round of the Louis
Vuitton Cup.


While the forecast of clear blue skies and winds ranging between
six to 10 knots was the same, organisers of the yachting
extravaganza expressed optimism that the so-called 'Battle of
Valencia' would get underway at the second attempt.


"Unfortunately, the weather forecast is for similar conditions to
yesterday," a spokesman for the organising committee said.


"But there is some cause for optimism. On Monday, the Race
Committee nearly started racing in the middle of the afternoon,
so just a slight improvement compared to yesterday will allow
racing to proceed."


Weather permitting Team New Zealand, one of the favourites to win
the Louis Vuitton and go on to challenge Swiss defender Alinghi
in June, will come up against Italy's +39 Challenge.


BMW Oracle, the other leading contender to win this two month
long America's Cup qualifying competition, has a date with Team
Shosholoza, the South African entry making her Cup debut.


The other two countries dipping their toes in the America's Cup
water for the first time are China, whose Son of Dragon has a
date with Sweden's Victory Challenge, and United Internet Team
Germany who open the day's action against former finalists Luna
Rossa of Italy.


The Louis Vuitton features two round robin stages with the top
four teams going on to the May 14-25 semi-finals with the final
scheduled to run over a fortnight from June 1.


The 32nd America's Cup, which is being staged in Europe for the
first time since the inaugural edition off the Isle of Wight in
1851, starts on June 23.

