

US Secretary of Defence Robert Gates on Tuesday downplayed the
exit of radical Shiite cleric Moqtada al-Sadr's anti-American
faction from Iraq's coalition government.


Sadr pulled his six ministers out of the coalition supporting
Prime Minister Nuri Al-Maliki on Monday, demanding a rapid
withdrawal of US troops from Iraq.


"There is an opportunity to turn what seems like a negative into
a positive," said Gates, speaking after a meeting with Jordan's
King Abdullah II.


"Anything that can be done to further reconciliation, including
broadening the representation" of the government is positive," he
said.


Gates said that the impact of Sadr's departure "will depend on
who is selected" to replace his ministers, but said he did not
believe that the cleric and his followers were "walking away"
from the political process.


Gates, a former head of the CIA, said that during his days as a
spymaster unknown information was often divided into two
categories: secrets and mysteries.


"His motives right now are a mystery," said Gates, referring to
Sadr.


The Shiite hardliner -- unseen in public since October -- was
angered when massive street protests last week failed to persuade
the Maliki goverment to set a timeline for US forces to go home.


Sadr's bloc is the largest single political group in Maliki's
fragmenting coalition, but the prime minister will be able to
cling to power if he keeps the support of smaller Shiite and
Kurdish groups.


Maliki welcomed Sadr's exit, saying it will help speed up his
much-awaited cabinet reshuffle that would bring in "efficient
ministers."


In Washington, White House spokeswoman Dana Perino on Monday also
downplayed the move. "Coalitions in those types of parliamentary
democracies can come and go," she said.

