

Non-governmental organisations operating in Zimbabwe sought
explanations Tuesday over a cabinet minister's statements that
the government had cancelled licences for all NGOs.


"According to reports, the minister of information (Sikhanyiso
Ndlovu) said all NGO licences had been revoked and we are seeking
clarity on the issue from the relevant minister," Bob Muchabaiwa,
spokesman for the National Association of Non-governmental
Organisations (NANGO) told AFP.


"We fear as NANGO these reports could raise alarm so we are in
the process of seeking an explanation."


The state broadcaster Zimbabwe Television reported that
government had revoked the licences of NGOs in a crackdown on
groups accused of planning to oust veteran President Robert
Mugabe.


The cancellation was to allow the state to "screen out agents of
imperialism from genuine organisations working to uplift the
well-being of the poor."


The Zimbabwean authorities have in the past accused western
powers of using NGOs and aid agencies to channel funds to the
country's main opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC).


Tuesday's edition of the state-controlled Herald newspaper quoted
ruling Zimbabwe African National Union - Patriotic Front (ZANU-
PF) chairman John Nkomo castigating NGOs for fomenting political
instability in the country.


"They are creating an unAfrican culture, giving money to people
to remove their leaders," Nkomo told a party meeting in the
southern district of Insiza, the newspaper reported.


"They are front's for regime change who have no real purpose or
reason to be in the country."


Mugabe often castigates MDC leaders as stooges of the west and
accuses British Prime Minister Tony Blair of harbouring plans to
recolonise Zimbabwe, using the MDC as a front.


To keep an eye on the operations of NGOs, the authorities drafted
a bill allowing the state to demand records of finances and
operations of NGOs.

