

One of the three suicide bombs that killed 30 people in Algiers
last week might have been set off remotely, Algerian Interior
Minister Noureddine Zerhouni said in remarks reported on Tuesday.


Zerhouni said that evidence of the remote control device had been
discovered in one of the three cars used in the explosions which
targeted the prime minister's office in Algiers and two other
locations in the capital.


"With this discovery, one plausible hypothesis is that the bombs
were not detonated by the terrorist car drivers but by someone
else not far from the disaster," Zerhouni said in comments
reported in Tuesday's press.


The minister did not say in which vehicle evidence of the device
was found.


More than 220 people were also injured in the blasts, according
to the latest official toll. The attacks on April 11 were claimed
by Al-Qaeda's branch in North Africa.


Zerhouni was quoted in the Jour d'Algerie daily as saying that so
far investigations had shown the vehicles used in the explosions
had come from abroad and that the perpetrators had been
"manipulated".


However, an interior ministry statement released on Tuesday said
that all three cars were registered in Algeria and that all three
suicide bombers were Algerian.


"These desperate terrorists resorted to suicide attacks for
spectacular effect to prove that they're still around," Zehouni
said. "Terrorism is weakening because sowing death like they did
last week shows that they are desperate."


In the 1990s, Algeria was torn apart by violence as a result of a
vicious conflict between Islamic militants and the military. The
violence began after authorities annulled an election won by an
Islamist group.


Violence in Algeria has greatly decreased in recent years, though
the latest attacks have raised fears of a return to the bloody
clashes of the 1990s.

