

French presidential candidate Nicolas Sarkozy met with Egyptian
President Hosni Mubarak on Tuesday and pledged to ensure
continuity in France's Middle East policy if elected.


"There will be continuity in this policy, which is a balanced
policy," Sarkozy, the candidate of the governing party, said
following the 40-minute meeting in Paris.


"I told President Mubarak that if I am elected president of the
Republic, I would like to have the same relationship of trust
that he enjoyed with President Chirac," said Sarkozy.


Sarkozy, the former interior minister, is slightly ahead of
Socialist rival Segolene Royal in the polls for the first round
of voting on Sunday and is expected to win a spot in the runoff
on May 6.


While he is seen as a stronger supporter of Israel than President
Jacques Chirac, who has been a longtime advocate of an
independent state of Palestine, Sarkozy said he wanted "a
relationship of trust" with Arab governments, if elected.


"I would guarantee the security of Israel but I also want a
homeland for the Palestinians, a state for the Palestinians. I
want independence for Lebanon and I want to have relations of
trust with the various Arab governments," he said.


Sarkozy praised Mubarak, describing him as a "man of great
experience and of very great wisdom" and said it was "an honour"
for him to "meet with one of the great Arab leaders".


Egypt's top-selling state-owned daily Al-Ahram had reported that
Mubarak had planned to meet with Sarkozy, Royal and centrist
Francois Bayrou who are the frontrunners in the election.


But in the end, Mubarak held one meeting with Sarkozy at the
official guest residence for visiting heads of state.

