

Somalia's parliament said on Tuesday it has sacked 31 of its
members, most of whom are out of the country, for failing to
participate in its activities.


The parliamentary information committee said the lawmakers, who
include former speaker Sharif Hassan Sheikh Aden, had been absent
for the last six months without permission.


"We have sacked 31 members of parliament, including the former
speaker and some other members who have ignored a call to return
to parliament," said committee chairman Awad Ahmed Asharo.


Aden was dismissed in January for launching unauthorised
negotiations with the government's Islamist rivals.


Asharo said the absent lawmakers were given a one-month deadline
on March 14 to return to Somalia and rejoin the national
assembly, but ignored it.


Several of the sacked MPs are currently in Eritrea and have vowed
not to return until Ethiopian troops deployed to bolster the
government are withdrawn.


Eritrea, which has repeatedly called for the pullout of Ethiopian
forces, is also hosting Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed, head of the
executive arm of the Union of Islamic Courts.


Ethiopia deployed its forces to Somalia late last year and helped
the interim government oust the Islamist movement from the
country's southern and central region.


It has accused its arch-foe Eritrea of backing the Islamists,
remnants of whom are still waging attacks in Somalia, but Asmara
has denied the claims.


Analysts have expressed fears that Ethiopia and Eritrea, still at
odds over their unresolved 1998-2000 border conflict, may fight a
proxy war in Somalia.


Somalia's 275-member parliament formed in neighbouring Kenya in
2004 and has since been based in the backwater town of Baidoa,
about 250 kilometers (155 miles) northwest of the capital
Mogadishu.


The assembly draws its representation from Somalia's four major
clans of Darod, Digil-Mirifle, Dir and Hawiye. Each clan has 61
members while a mixture of minority clans account for the
remaining 31 seats.

