

Following a shooting rampage at a US university that killed 32
people, here is a list of the worst random killing incidents over
the past 40 years, not counting wars and civil unrest:


- April 1982: A disgruntled police officer in a rural region of
South Korea uses grenades and a rifle to kill a total of 57
people in several villages, and then blows himself up.


- April 1996: A young Australian man with psychiatric problems
shoots dead 35 people at a tourist site in Port Arthur, Tasmania.


- April 2007: A gunman kills a total of 32 people and then
himself at a university campus in the US state of Virginia.


- December 1986: A Vietnam veteran in the Colombian capital
Bogota kills 29 people before being shot dead by police.


- October 1991: In Killeen, Texas, a man shoots dead 22 people in
a restaurant before shooting himself.


- July 1984: A gunman massacres 21 people in a fast-food
restaurant in southern California, before being shot dead by
police.


- March 1996: A mentally-ill man enters an infant school in the
Scottish town of Dunblane and shoots dead 16 children and their
teacher before turning his gun on himself.


- April 2002: A 19 year-old boy in Erfurt, eastern Germany, kills
17 people at a school, and then commits suicide.


- August 1987: A man armed with an assault rifle kills 16
passers-by at random in Hungerford, England, before shooting
himself.


- April 1994: In Gujarat, India, a man douses a group of wedding
guests in petrol and sets them alight, killing 16, before
committing suicide.


- May 1997 - Angered at accusations of homosexuality, a former
soldier in northeastern Brazil kills 15 people, before being shot
dead by police.


- August 1966: A mentally unstable man kills his mother and wife
and then ascends a clock tower at his faculty in Austin, Texas,
shooting dead a further 12 people before being killed by police.


- August 1986: A worker angered at being sacked from a post
office in the US state of Oklahoma kills 14 people.


- December 1989: In Montreal, Canada, a woman-hating gunman kills
14 young women and then himself.


- November 1990: A gunman shoots 13 people dead in a small New
Zealand town, before being shot dead by police.


- April 1999: Two heavily armed teenage boys burst into their
school, Colombine High in Colorado, and kill 12 fellow-pupils and
a teacher before killing themselves.

