

Netherlands-based oil marketing company the Vitol Group has
increased its stake in Latvian oil transport company Ventspils
Nafta to just over 43 percent, the company said in a statement
Tuesday.


It said the deal had been done through its Cyprus-registered
subsidiary Euromin.


In a notice posted on the website of the Riga stock exchange it
said it had "increased its shareholding and voting rights in
Ventspils Nafta..., to 44,990,780 capital and voting shares, or
43.06 percent".


Vitol bought its initial 34.75 percent stake in Ventspils Nafta
in October last year, when the Latvian state privatised the
company, whose core business is the shipment of crude oil and
petroleum products, and pipeline transport.


Latvian officials have expressed the hope that Vitol would reopen
the Ventspils Nafta's LatRosTrans pipeline, which ceased
operations in January 2003 after the Russian state-controlled
group Transneft decided to transport petroleum products mainly by
rail.


The shutdown of the pipeline resulted in big losses for Ventspils
Nafta.


But Ventspils Nafta's press officer, Gunda Glarpa, cited reports
in the Latvian press, saying reopening the pipeline was not a
priority for Vitol.


Instead, the Dutch group planned to concentrate on expanding
terminal operations, she told AFP, citing press reports.


Last month, Vitol signed an agreement with Ventspils Nafta to
purchase 49 percent of shares in the Ventspils Nafta Terminals
subsidiary.


Vitol describes its core business as "physical oil marketing with
worldwide coverage".

