

European stock markets fell on Tuesday when the spectre of
inflation and an interest rate rise in Britain drove investors to
take profits from bumper gains on Monday, dealers said.


On Tuesday, investors took flight after it emerged that British
annual inflation raced to 3.1 percent in March, intensifying
speculation that interest rates would rise from 5.25 percent to
5.50 percent in Britain next month.


Rising interest rates weigh heavily on the stock market because
they increase loan repayments, thereby weighing on companies'
costs and biting into profits. They also reduce disposable income
available to consumers for the purchase of goods and services.


Wall Street investors were awaiting the March consumer price
index for the latest reading on US inflation. Some analysts see
prospects for a reduction of US interest rates because US
inflation is tame.


But this could reduce further the attractiveness of the dollar. A
further fall of the dollar would potentially undermine European
exporters.


European equities had sparkled on Monday, with London's FTSE 100
shares index hitting the highest close since September 2000 as
investors spied a potential bidding war for Dutch bank ABN Amro.


"We're perhaps seeing an element of profit taking (on Tuesday)
following the strong gains we saw yesterday," said Robert Parkes,
an equity strategist at HSBC.


In early afternoon trading in Europe, the FTSE 100 index sank
0.65 percent to 6,474.10 points, Frankfurt's DAX 30 shed 0.34
percent to 7,313.17 points and in Paris the CAC 40 dropped 0.55
percent to 5,829.92.


The DJ Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone blue chip shares shed 0.41
percent to 4,361.41 points.


The euro stood at 1.3539 dollars. The pound meanwhile soared as
high as 2.0035 dollars, last seen in September 1992.


Wall Street had leapt higher on Monday after banking powerhouse
Citigroup said its profits topped five billion dollars and an
investor group agreed to buy the Sallie Mae student loan giant
for 25 billion dollars.


Japanese share prices were hit by profit-taking on Tuesday
despite Wall Street's strong performance overnight as investors
turned cautious ahead of upcoming company results, dealers said.


In London, shares in Hammerson tumbled 2.84 percent to 1,607
pence after the European property company's stock received a
broker downgrade from Citigroup to 'hold' from 'buy.'


However, Tesco bucked the market and saw its share price rise
1.70 percent to 463.5 pence after posting record 2006 profits.


In Frankfurt, shares in Henkel, the German maker of household
chemicals and cosmetics, dived 2.48 percent to 112.10 euros.


That was despite the group repeating its growth targets for 2007
and 2008 at the company's annual general meeting in Duesseldorf.


In Paris, Danone shares slumped 2.23 percent to 119.42 euros
after broker ABN Amro to cut its price target on the French food
giant to 125 euros from 140 euros and reduce its sales growth
estimates for 2007 and 2008.


In US deals on Monday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average closed up
a hefty 0.86 percent at 12,720.46 points.


The Nasdaq composite rose a strong 1.06 percent to 2,518.33
points and the Standard and Poor's 500 broad-market index
advanced a significant 1.08 percent to 1,468.47.


In Asian trading on Tuesday, Tokyo's benchmark Nikkei-225 index
of leading shares fell 0.57 percent to 17,527.45 points.


Hong Kong's key Hang Seng Index closed up 0.15 percent at
20,788.61 points after a see-saw trading session.

