

Juan Pablo Angel was handed a footballing green card for the
United States on Tuesday when Aston Villa boss Martin O'Neill
confirmed that he would let the Colombian striker leave for Major
League Soccer (MLS).


Angel is reportedly on the verge of agreeing a two-year contract
with MLS outfit New York Red Bulls which would end a six-year
stay at Villa.


The 31-year-old striker was the club's record signing when he
joined for 9.5 million pounds from Argentina's River Plate in
2001.


But he has not been a first-team regular since O'Neill took over
as manager last summer and Villa have since invested heavily in
Norwegian striker John Carew and former Watford forward Ashley
Young.


"Juan has a year left on his contract here and obviously we're
trying to re- structure," O'Neill admitted.


"There are two transfer windows over in America and I wouldn't
stand in his way if he has the chance to extend his career.


"A few weeks ago I wouldn't have considered it. We still needed
points and John Carew was out injured. But John is on his way
back and Luke Moore is also back.


"Juan has been really excellent since I came here to the football
club in terms of being a real professional and I genuinely have
nothing but praise for him.


"In the latter stages, perhaps he hasn't played the number of
games he would hope to but I thought earlier in the season he was
excellent for us, led the line and did great.


"He lost his place in the side just after Christmas, but ever
since then, his attitude has been great.


"Maybe now he feels the upper echelons of the Premiership might
be eluding him, but there could be a great chance to start a new
life in America."


Angel has had an up and down career at Villa with his best season
in 2003-2004 when he notched 23 goals.


He has netted seven times this season but has gradually slipped
down the pecking order after a bright start to the current
campaign as the sole striker in a 4-5-1 formation.

