

General Motors is to axe 1,400 jobs at its factory in Antwerp,
Belgium, as part of a shake-up of production for the next
generation of the group's Astra model from 2010, GM Europe said
on Tuesday.


According to a statement released here, GM Europe said that it
planned to discontinue production of its compact Astra model in
Antwerp after 2010.


The the new generation of Astra models would be built at four
European sites -- Bochum in Germany, Ellesmere Port in Britain,
Trollhattan in Sweden and Gliwice in Poland.


"It is not planned to continue production of GM Europe's compact
class in Antwerp beyond 2010," the statement said.


"There is no talk of closing the plant, but improvements are
nevertheless necessary."


Independent of what GM Europe decides to build in Antwerp, "we
plan to adjust production there to normal demand development and
to reduce it," the statement said.


Management would negotiate with the workforce and employee
representatives "about employment in the plant where lower
production volumes will mean that 1,400 few employees are
needed," it said.


GM Europe currently employs 4,500 people at its site in Antwerp.


"I know that the announcement is very difficult for our employees
in Antwerp," said GM Europe chief Carl-Peter Forster.


"We will make every effort to find a socially acceptable way of
implementing the job cuts," he said.


The statement came after management and workers' representatives
met in Brussels new talks about possible cost cutting measures at
the US car giant's European subsidiaries.


GM opened talks in March on a new cost-cutting programme at its
European marques Saab, Vauxhall and Opel, with overcapacity
reportedly set to rise sharply in the coming years.

