

Italian Prime Minister Romano Prodi called  Tuesday for Europe
and Japan to coordinate aid to Africa in the face of China's
increasingly visible presence in the continent.


"With regards to Africa, Europe and Japan should align in their
communication and become closer," Prodi told students at the
University of Tokyo, speaking through an interpreter.


"If we look at numbers, Europe and Japan together present a great
deal more aid to Africa than China," said Prodi, the former head
of the European Commission. "But when I talk to African leaders,
they only talk about China."


China has become a growing investor and donor in Africa, although
it has come under criticism in the West for supporting nations
such as Sudan despite the mass killings in the Darfur region.


Prodi also called on European nations to focus on their relations
with Asia.


"I think it is very important to direct the European Union's
politics towards Asia. This is Asia's century... and Asia's
revival will give support to the Mediterranean region," Prodi
said.


Prodi met Monday with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and
agreed to put African development and global warming high on the
agenda in upcoming summits of the Group of Eight industrialised
nations.


China responded that it wanted all sides to cooperate on aid for
Africa.


"We believe if other countries of the world want to collaborate
on helping Africa, this is a good thing. No one side can exclude
the other," foreign ministry spokesman Liu Jianchao said in
Beijing.


"When China engages in economic, trade and cultural cooperation,
it will not exclude any other side. We welcome any other
countries, especially developing countries, to give a hand to
Africa so that Africa can develop like other countries," he said.


Many observers view Beijing's overtures to Africa as motivated
mainly by China's desperate need for oil and other resources to
fuel its booming economy.

