

Sterling climbed above 2.00 dollars for the first time for 14
years on Tuesday on expectations that British interest rates will
rise to tame surging inflation here, dealers said.


The British pound struck 2.0035 dollars in European trading, the
highest level since September 1992.


This came after data showed that British annual inflation had
surged to 3.1 percent in March, the highest level since 1997 and
in breach of a government-set ceiling of 3.0 percent.


Global Insight analyst Howard Archer commented: "We believe that
sterling could well remain above 2.00 dollars for an extended
period.


"In the near term, the pound is likely to be supported by
expectations that UK interest rates will not only rise from 5.25
percent to 5.50 percent in May, but could also rise further
thereafter."


An increase in interest rates tends to attract foreign short-term
deposits, thereby increasing demand for the domestic currency and
increasing its value on the foreign exchange market. In the
United States, the key rate is 5.25 percent and in the eurozone
it is 3.75 percent. In Japan, it is 0.5 percent.


Sterling's all-time high against the dollar was 2.4546 dollars in
1980.


The euro stood at 1.3544 dollars in midday European trading,
compared with 1.3535 dollars late on Monday in New York.


The dollar fell to 119.25 yen, from 119.72 yen on Monday.


Archer said: "While there is no denying that the pound is strong
overall, it is also significant that the dollar is currently
trading at a 27-month low against the euro."


The dollar was meanwhile weak ahead of upcoming US economic
indicators, such as the March consumer price index and housing
starts due out later Tuesday.


Data released on Monday by the US Commerce Department showed US
retail sales hitting a three-month high in March, rising by 0.7
percent, better than the 0.4 percent gain economists had been
expecting.


However, momentum for the dollar was limited by the Empire survey
on manufacturing activity in the New York region which showed
only a small rise after a sharp drop the previous month, dealers
said.


The euro also remained strong against the dollar after data
showed that investor confidence in Germany rose to the highest
level for 10 months in April as growth of the eurozone's biggest
economy continues to gather momentum.


The ZEW economic research institute's economic expectations
index, based on a poll of 320 analysts and institutional
investors, rose by 10.7 points to plus 16.5 points in April, its
highest level since June 2006, ZEW said in a statement.


The increase also beat expectations: analysts had been pencilling
in a more modest rise to plus 10.0 points this month.


The euro was changing hands at 1.3544 dollars, against 1.3535
dollars late


on Monday, 161.44 yen (162.05), 0.6774 pounds (0.6801) and 1.6409
Swiss francs (1.6432).


The dollar stood at 119.25 yen (119.72) and 1.2121 Swiss francs
(1.2141).


The pound was being traded at 1.9984 dollars (1.9900).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold advanced to
687.45 dollars per ounce, from 686.50 dollars late on Monday.

