

The 13 countries sharing the euro improved their trade balance
with the rest of the world in February despite the currency's
growing strength, official EU data showed on Tuesday.


The eurozone had a trade deficit of 1.7 billion euros in February
(2.3 billion dollars), the European Union's Eurostat data agency
said in a first estimate.


The deficit marked an improvement from January when the eurozone
showed a shortfall of 7.0 billion euros and from February 2006
when the single currency club recorded a deficit of 3.3 billion
euros.


"Although the eurozone trade balance remained in deficit in
February, the data are actually pretty encouraging," said Global
Insight economist Howard Archer. "Eurozone exports held up well,
despite the firm euro."


Exports rose 10 percent in February over 12 months to 115.7
billion euros, growing faster than imports, which were up 8.0
percent to 117.4 billion euros.


Adjusted for seasonal variations, the data showed that the
eurozone had a deficit of 200 million euros, down from a surplus
of 1.8 billion euros in January.


With the eurozone growth increasingly outpacing major partners in
the developed world and interest rates rising in the bloc, the
euro has gradually gathered strength against other major
currencies.


As a result, the shared European currency has risen to two-year
highs against the dollar and hit record levels against the
Japanese yen and Swiss franc, fuelling fears among some of the
bloc's exporters that their products will become too expensive on
international markets.


"It remains to be seen how well eurozone exporters can cope with
the euro recently firming to a 27-month high above 1.35 dollar,"
Archer said.


The 27-nation European Union recorded a trade deficit of 17.6
billion euros in February, down sharply from 26.2 billion euros
in January but up from the 16.1 billion euros recorded in
February 2006.

