

Iran will next week launch an annual summer crackdown on women,
as well as men, whose dress is deemed to be out of line with its
Islamic laws, the media reported on Tuesday.


The deputy head of Tehran's police Hossein Sadjedi-Nia warned
that women "dressed up like models" with overly short mantos
(coats), tight outergarments and inadequate headscarves would
face being apprehended in the crackdown.


"The police forces are going to act against women who dress up
like models in town. This drive is no different from the
campaigns of previous years," he said.


"The arrested women will be taken to four centres. They will have
to give a written engagement not to repeat the offence and can
then leave when their family brings the appropriate clothing," he
explained.


The police chief said that the drive, which starts on Saturday,
will also target men "who wear clothes with offensive slogans and
chains with certain insignia."


Women in Iran are by law obliged to cover their head with hijab
(Islamic head covering) and a full length overcoat that covers
all bodily contours. Visiting foreigners and religious minorities
are not exempted.


Each year, as Iran's hot summer begins, the authorities announce
a crackdown on loose dressing as hem lines become shorter and
more skin is revealed.


However in recent years many Iranian women, especially in the
capital Tehran, have sought to test the boundaries by pushing
their headscarves back to reveal more hair as well as wearing
shorter and tighter mantos.


When the conservative Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was elected president
in June 2005 there were expectations that the authorities would
clamp down firmly on women's dress in public.


However there has been no sign of dress sense changing and the
government has repeatedly said it wants to encourage people to
dress better through encouragement rather than coercion.

