

Nobel Peace Prize winner Desmond Tutu is to visit Taiwan in a
trip politicians said may help the country solve ethnic issues
facing the island in the process of democratisation.


Tutu, who is due to arrive in Taipei Wednesday on an eight-day
visit, will meet with President Chen Shui-bian and Vice President
Annette Lu, foreign ministry spokesman David Wang said.


Legislator Hsiao Bi-khim, from the ruling independence-leaning
Democratic Progressive Party (DPP), compared Taiwan with South
Africa in their long- standing struggles against authoritarian
rule.


"Both Taiwan and South Africa came under authoritarian rule. Now
both of them have become full democracies," Hsiao said.


"What we may learn from them is how they have solved their racial
and related problems in a peaceful way."


Tutu will give public speeches and meet with Taiwan's former
political dissidents during the trip sponsored by the Taiwan
Foundation for Democracy, a body funded by the foreign ministry.


Tutu, who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1984, was Cape Town
archbishop from 1986-1996 and headed South Africa's now famous
Truth and Reconciliation Commission.


Taiwan became a full-blown democracy in 2000, when the DPP's Chen
Shui-bian was elected the president, ending the Kuomintang's
(KMT) 51-year grip. Chen was re- elected in 2004.


The DPP claims that a number of problems including human rights
abuses committed under the authoritarian rule of the former KMT
government remain unsolved.


Among the issues is the role of former KMT leader Chiang Kai-shek
in a riot on the island 60 years ago, during which thousands of
islanders were believed to have been slaughtered by KMT troops
called in from the mainland.


The KMT says the DPP is trying to foment hatred between islanders
and mainlanders who fled to the island with the KMT at the end of
a civil war in 1949.

