

Following are figures excerpted from a new overview of the global
AIDS pandemic by the World Health Organisation (WHO), UNAIDS and
Unicef (+).


-- Of the roughly 39.5 million people living with HIV or AIDS at
the end of last year, around 7.1 million people in low- and
middle-income countries are badly infected and need anti-
retroviral drugs.


-- As of December 2006, about 2.015 million of these 7.1 million
had access to the drugs, a coverage of 28 percent. In December
2005, the tally was 1.3 million.


-- The biggest improvement is in sub-Saharan Africa, where
coverage is now 28 percent of the 4.8 million of those in need,
compared to just two percent in 2003.


-- Coverage in other regions: North Africa and Middle East six
percent; Eastern Europe and Central Asia 15 percent; South, East
and Southeast Asia 19 percent; Latin America and Caribbean 72
percent.


-- Only 11 percent of HIV-positive pregnant women in poor
countries are getting access to simple, cheap drugs that would
prevent them from passing the disease to their baby.


-- The number of needy, infected children receiving treatment
rose by 50 percent last year, but the vast majority are still
without access to these drugs. In December 2006, only 115,500, or
15 percent, out of the 780,000 children estimated to be in need
of HIV treatment were receiving it.


--- The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and
President George W. Bush's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief
(PEPFAR) are supporting 1.265 million patients on treatment.


-- Prices of most first-line drugs in poorer countries continued
to fall last year but the prices of second-line drugs remain
"unaffordably high" in these places.


(+) "Towards Universal Access: Scaling Up Priority HIV/AIDS
Interventions in the Health Sector"

