

Ugandan police fired live bullets, tear gas canisters and beat
people on the streets of Kampala on Tuesday as opposition leaders
attempted to hold a press briefing, eyewitnesses said.


The trouble began when police hurled tear gas canisters at
opposition leaders heading to a press briefing to demand the
release of people arrested in a land protest last week.


Police allowed the event to proceed but as the opposition leaders
left the capital's Roman Catholic Church compound they were met
again with more tear gas and pepper spray, sparking a commotion
in the street, an AFP correpondent reported.


A group of armed men in civilian clothes then rushed from the
nearby Central Police Station and started clobbering civilians in
the streets that had already been barricaded by police.


It was not clear if there were any casualties, nor why the police
acted in the way they did.


The leaders of the Forum for Democratic Change, Democratic Party,
Conservative Party and the Justice Forum had called the press
conference to demand the release of 27 people, including two
opposition leader, from police custody.


They were detained on suspicion of taking part in last week's
protest against government plans to cut down a swathe of the
Mabira Forest Reserve east of Kampala to pave the way for an
Indian-owned firm to plant sugarcane.


Three people were killed in last Thursday's protests, including
an asian man stoned to death and two Ugandans shot by private
guards.


"We demand the immediate release of the innocent opposition
leaders, business leaders and environmental crusade leaders," the
parties said in a joint statement.


"Failure to respond to this call shall leave us with no option
but enjoin the masses into a civil action," it added.


Ugandan activists have vowed to oppose the planned clearance of
around 7,000 of the 30,000 hectares (75,000 acres) Mabira Forest
Reserve.

