

After a successful stint in Malaysia, two dogs trained to sniff
out pirated DVDs and CDs have started work in the Philippines,
officials said Tuesday.


Anti-piracy canines Lucky and Flo were dispatched to at least two
shopping malls in the capital on Tuesday to sniff out pirated
DVDs and CDs hidden in cartons and under stacks of clothing to
evade the raiding teams.


The black Labradors accompanied teams of the government's Optical
Media Board (OMB) in the raids.


Officers of the OMB would first seize the pirated discs on public
display and then the dogs were sent out to locate the discs that
had been secreted away.


It was not immediately clear how many discs the two dogs had
located in raids which have been ongoing since they arrived at
the weekend.


The Labradors, from Northern Ireland, are said to be the only
ones in the world trained to detect polycarbonate and chemicals
used in optical discs.


They were initially brought to Malaysia in February for a one-
month trial by the US-based Motion Picture Association, which
investigates piracy for major movie companies.


Neil Gane, senior director of the Motion Picture Association,
said the dogs were brought to the Philippines to show off their
capabilities so that local authorities might consider "setting up
their own canine units."


He declined to say how long the dogs would be in the country or
where they would be going although they are due to eventually
return to Malaysia.


Malaysian piracy syndicates have reportedly put a bounty on the
heads of the dogs due to their success in helping authorities
locate hidden pirated discs.


The head of the Optical Media Board, Edu Manzano, has said the
Philippines should consider setting up its own canine unit.

