

Japan's envoy to North Korean nuclear disarmament talks on Monday
welcomed the latest breakthrough on Monday but warned that past
abductions of Japanese citizens remained an obstacle.


Tokyo has vowed not to fund the economic assistance promised to
North Korea in the six-party forum for dismantling its nuclear
programmes until Pyongyang comes clean on the abductions.


Japanese negotiator Kenichiro Sasae said Monday no headway had
been made in that dispute.


"The kidnapping issue is an important aspect of the (six-party
talks). Unfortunately, there has been little progress," he said.


North Korea has acknowledged kidnapping 13 Japanese in the 1970s
and 1980s to train its spies.


It returned five victims and their families, and says the rest
are dead, but Japan maintains that the other abductees are alive
and that more Japanese nationals were snatched than the secretive
Stalinist state has admitted.


The stalemate over the issue stood in contrast to an agreement
the United States said Monday it had reached with Pyongyang over
financial sanctions that had frozen about 25 million dollars of
North Korean money in a Macau bank.


The United States said it had agreed to free the funds, one of
North Korea's key demands before beginning the process of
disarming.


Sasae welcomed the deal but emphasised Monday that the talks
should focus on the overall goal of halting North Korea's nuclear
programmes.


"We must work by holding a... long-term view, and not be caught
up in day-to-day movements," Sasae said.


Under the six-nation deal, North Korea would receive one million
tonnes of fuel oil or equivalent energy aid if it permanently
scrapped its nuclear weapons programme.


In the absence of Japan, South Korea has said it will provide the
first 50,000 tonnes of fuel oil that would come in the first
stage of the disarmament process.

