

England midfielder Frank Lampard insisted Monday that he has no
intention of leaving the Premiership champions.


The 28-year-old has been linked with a move away from Stamford
Bridge in recent weeks, amid suggestions he could be set for a
summer transfer to Spain.


But the former West Ham player has claimed he will stay with
Chelsea for the remainder of his career.


"I want to stay at Chelsea," he told The Sun. "I have never
wanted to leave the club and I don't intend to. I have everything
I want in life where I am right now.


"For the past six years my life has been my family and Chelsea
football club. Some players can say that and it sounds cliched or
fake.


"I can say it because it is absolutely true. I am very proud I
play for Chelsea and of what I have achieved as part of the
team."


"I value my relationship with the supporters very highly and they
have become part of my football family.


"I know when I am older and have finished my career I will sit
among the fans and support Chelsea with them."


But Lampard revealed that he was unhappy when talks over a new
contract at the west London club were delayed.


"I wondered what was going on and since then there have been a
couple of meetings with Steve (Kutner, Lampard's agent). So far,
though, Chelsea have actually yet to make a proper offer on a new
deal.


"I am not worried about the situation but it's frustrating when
everyone else is talking about my future."


Lampard also insists he has no intention of invoking a FIFA rule
which would allegedly allow him to buy his way out of his Chelsea
deal for around eight million pounds (15.5 million dollars).


"As far as the FIFA rule is concerned of course I am aware of
it," he said.


"I read about it every day in the papers!


"The fact is that it's not relevant. I have two years left on my
contract and I want to stay and sign a new one."

