

The dollar was mixed in Asian trade Monday as markets digested a
Chinese interest rate rise and kept a close watch on global stock
markets after recent turbulence, dealers said.


The dollar was up to 117.21 yen in Tokyo afternoon trade from
116.72 late Friday in New York.


The euro rose to 1.3308 dollars from 1.3307 and to 155.93 yen
after 155.37.


The dollar wobbled after the Chinese central bank announced a
tightening of monetary policy over the weekend but the currency
soon stabilised.


"Players put in dollar-selling orders early Monday amid
speculation that China's rate hike might affect Asian stock
markets," said Yosuke Hosokawa, head of forex at Chuo Mitsui
Trust Bank.


"But selling pressure was subdued after they saw stocks remained
relatively calm," Hosokawa said.


The People's Bank of China (PBOC) announced Saturday that its
one-year borrowing and lending benchmark rates would be raised by
0.27 percentage points as part of efforts to keep the economic
boom in check.


"The rate hike announcement reinforces the PBOC's commitment to
slowing China's growth rate to a more sustainable pace. Both the
Chinese yuan and the yen strengthened post-announcement," said
National Australia Bank currency strategist John Kyriakopoulos.


Dealers were closely watching world stock markets after the
recent turbulence. Tokyo share prices were higher in morning
trade on Monday, bucking a negative lead from Wall Street where
stocks posted modest losses on Friday.


"The market has gradually digested the rough moves of the past
few weeks but it is still too early to say if the scar has been
healed," Hosokawa said.


The market is awaiting another batch of US economic data this
week including housing starts and existing house sales.


The markets do not expect any change in US interest rates but are
looking to the accompanying policy statement for their next lead
and guidance.


Dealers are wary about the risks of a slowdown in the US economy
after news that the number of bad mortgage loans is rising amid
financial troubles for some companies that lent to "sub-prime"
borrowers with patchy credit records.


The euro hit a three-month high of 1.3340 dollars briefly in US
trade on Friday on concerns the US economic momentum could be
losing steam in the face of the housing market downturn.


The US Federal Reserve holds a policy meeting on Tuesday and
Wednesday but is not expected to change its interest rates any
time soon, dealers said.


The Bank of Japan also began a two-day policy board meeting on
Monday but no change is expected after last month's quarter point
hike to 0.5 percent, which was the first increase since July.


The dollar rose to 33.12 Taiwan dollars from 33.06 late Friday,
to 48.81 Philippine pesos from 48.80 and to 9,225 Indonesian
rupiah from 9,216.


It fell to 943.35 South Korean won from 944.90, to 34.72 Thai
baht from 34.91 and to 1.5254 Singapore dollars from 1.5291.

