

Japanese stocks closed up 1.59 percent Monday, ending above the
key 17,000 points level for the first time in almost a week as
investor confidence gradually returns after the recent rout,
dealers said.


They said sentiment was lifted by a strong performance by stock
markets in China where investors shrugged off the central bank's
latest interest rate hike aimed at keeping economic growth under
control.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's benchmark Nikkei-225 index of leading
shares gained 265.40 points to 17,009.55.


The TOPIX index of all issues on the Tokyo Stock Exchange's first
section advanced 17.02 points or 1.01 percent to 1,694.08.


Gainers beat decliners 1,015 to 582, with 134 stocks flat.


Volume dropped to 1.9 billion shares from 2.4 billion on Friday.


Hideo Mizutani, chief strategist at Sieg Securities, said support
had been stronger than expected.


"Although the upside was weighed down around the 17,000-point
level, share prices made strong gains considering the lacklustre
performance of US stock markets," he said.


"Sectors such as autos and high-techs -- which had come under
pressure because of the recent firmness of the yen -- gained,"
Mizutani said.


Investors were awaiting interest rate decisions this week by the
Bank of Japan and the US Federal Reserve although neither is
expected to announce any changes yet.


"The market is not likely to be affected by the Bank of Japan
this week as it is expected to keep its interest rates unchanged
and to repeat roughly what it said last month," said Ichiyoshi
Management fund manager Mitsushige Akino.


Electronics were higher. Advantest climbed 150 yen or 2.9 percent
to 5,370, Tokyo Electron rose 160 yen or 1.9 percent to 8,520 and
Canon was 180 yen or 2.9 percent higher at 6,440.


Auto makers also gained. Nissan Motor climbed 19 yen or 1.5
percent to 1,304 and Toyota Motor advanced 60 yen or 0.8 percent
to 7,670.


Mazda Motor was up eight yen or 1.3 percent at 632, Honda Motor
rose 40 yen or 0.98 percent to 4,130 and Fuji Heavy Industries
firmed 14 yen or 2.3 percent to 634.


On the foreign exchange market, the dollar rose to 117.21 yen in
Tokyo afternoon trade from 116.72 late Friday in New York.


The euro rose to 1.3308 dollars from 1.3307 and to 155.93 yen
after 155.37.

