

Thai officials on Monday confirmed the country's fourth outbreak
of bird flu this year, with the deadly H5N1 virus detected among
chickens in a northeastern province bordering Laos.


Livestock officials said the fresh outbreak was discovered two
weeks ago in domestic chicken raised on a farm in Mukdahan
province, about 640 kilometres (400 miles) northeast of Bangkok.


"The results of the laboratory test confirmed Sunday that it is
the H5N1 virus," a livestock department official said.


"All chicken, turkey and ducks raised on the same farm were
destroyed together with roughly 70 eggs."


A statement by the livestock department said 42 chicken, 39
turkey and three ducks on the farm were slaughtered two weeks
ago, and almost 30 birds were culled on a farm near the infection
site.


Thailand reported its first H5N1 outbreak this year on January
15, with the second case found a week later. The third outbreak
was confirmed early last month in central Angthong province.


The kingdom has not seen any human deaths from avian flu this
year, but neighbouring Laos confirmed its second such death this
year on Friday.


Thailand has been among the countries hardest hit by the deadly
H5N1 strain of the virus, recording 25 human cases, 17 of them
fatal, since the outbreak began here in 2004.


The last bird flu fatality was in August last year, when a 59
-year-old farmer in northeastern Thailand succumbed to the virus.


Thailand was initially criticized for being slow to respond to
bird flu, but now is considered one of the countries best
prepared to battle the disease, with a stockpile of 1.5 million
capsules of the anti-viral drug oseltamvir.


But bird flu badly hurt Thailand's poultry industry, after
countries slapped bans on raw Thai chicken after the 2004
outbreak. Thailand, once the world's largest exporter of poultry,
now only exports cooked chicken.

