

Europe's main stock markets travelled higher in morning trade on
Monday, boosted by news of a planned merger of German tourism
giant TUI and smaller British rival First Choice.


European equities rose also following a recovery across global
markets, which had suffered a rout last week on fears of an
economic meltdown in the United States.


London's FTSE 100 index of leading companies climbed 0.54 percent
to 6,164.00 points, Frankfurt's DAX 30 gained 0.88 percent to
6,637.97 points and in Paris the CAC 40 won 0.66 percent to
5,418.12.


The DJ Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone blue chip shares increased
0.90 percent to 4,020.59 points.


The euro stood at 1.3291 dollars.


German travel giant TUI moved Monday to cement its position as
Europe's leading travel and tourism group by announcing plans to
merge it tourism division with First Choice.


The merger represents further consolidation of the European
tourism industry, with the announcement coming one month after
package holiday specialists Thomas Cook and MyTravel confirmed
they were to carry out their own German-British tie- up.


TUI Travel, meanwhile, would have about 27 million customers per
year and proforma revenues of 12.1 billion pounds (17.6 billion
euros, 23.4 billion dollars), TUI and First Choice said.


In Frankfurt, TUI's share price rocketed 10.2 percent to 18.20
euros.


On London's second-tier FTSE 250 index, First Choice soared 9.68
percent to 311.5 pence.


The banking sector was also in focus after weekend press reports
said British bank Barclays has approached Dutch investment bank
ABN Amro with a merger proposal to create a global banking titan
worth 80 billion pounds.


In Amsterdam, ABN Amro surged 7.29 percent to 29.28 euros, while
Barclays was up 0.59 percent at 686.5 pence in London.


Broker Keefe, Bruyette and Woods said an approach by Barclays "is
realistic", but added that the situation was a long way from a
potential deal.


Barclays said it would release a statement regarding the
speculation before the opening of stock market trade on Tuesday.


Earlier on Monday the Tokyo Stock Exchange's benchmark Nikkei-225
index of leading shares closed up 1.59 percent at 17,009.55
points, ending above the key 17,000 points level for the first
time in almost a week as investor confidence gradually returns
after the recent rout, dealers said.


They said sentiment was lifted by a strong performance by stock
markets in China where investors shrugged off the central bank's
latest interest rate hike aimed at keeping economic growth under
control.


Hong Kong's key Hang Seng Index ended 1.65-percent higher at
19,266.74 points, led by China Mobile and select blue chips on
expectations that they will post strong 2006 results this week,
dealers said.


Wall Street, meanwhile, was expected to open higher later Monday
after the rebound for European and Asian markets.


The major US share indexes ended lower Friday after a stronger-
than-expected snapshot on inflation renewed economic concerns
days before the US Federal Reserve meets to mull US interest
rates.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed down 0.41 percent at
12,110.41 points and the tech-heavy Nasdaq composite dipped 0.25
percent to 2,372.66 points.


The broad-market Standard Poor's 500 lost 0.38 percent to end at
1,386.95.

