

After four years of intensive collaboration, 18 top
mathematicians and computer scientists from the United States and
Europe have successfully mapped E8, one of the largest and most
complicated structures in mathematics, scientists said late
Sunday.


Jeffrey Adams, project leader and mathematics professor at the
University of Maryland said E8 was discovered over a century ago,
in 1887, and until now, no one thought the structure could ever
be understood.


"This groundbreaking achievement is significant both as an
advance in basic knowledge, as well as a major advance in the use
of large scale computing to solve complicated mathematical
problems," Adams said.


He added that the mapping of E8 may well have unforeseen
implications in mathematics and physics which won't be evident
for years to come.


E8 belongs to so-called Lie groups that were invented by a 19th
century Norwegian mathematician, Sophus Lie, to study symmetry.


The theory holds that underlying any symmetrical object, such as
a sphere, is a Lie group.


Balls, cylinders or cones are familiar examples of symmetric
three-dimensional objects.


However, mathematicians study symmetries in higher dimensions. In
fact, E8 itself is 248-dimensional.


The scientists said the magnitude of the E8 calculation invited
comparison with the Human Genome Project.


While the human genome, which contains all the genetic
information of a cell, is less than a gigabyte in size, the
result of the E8 calculation, which contains all the information
about E8, is 60 gigabytes in size, they said.


This is enough to store 45 days of continuous music in
MP3-format. If written out on paper, the answer would cover an
area the size of Manhattan.

