

Bob Woolmer's wife revealed Monday the "incredible stress" that
her husband had been under as coach of Pakistan.


Woolmer, 58, was found unconscious in his hotel room in Jamaica
on Sunday morning and later pronounced dead.


His death came less than 24 hours after Pakistan crashed out of
the World Cup following a shock defeat to Ireland - an experience
Woolmer described as one of the worst of his career.


Speaking to the Daily Mirror, the ex-Warwickshire coach's wife,
Gill, revealed the pressures placed on her husband as coach of
the cricket-mad Pakistan.


"His job coaching there has been incredibly stressful," she said.


No official cause of death has yet been revealed, with Pakistan's
media manager Pervez Mir saying: "We are waiting for medical
reports."


But according to reports Monday, the former England batsman
suffered from diabetes and had recently experienced breathing
difficulties.


Former Kent team-mate and the county's current chairman of
cricket Graham Johnson told BBC Radio Five Live: "Bob left a huge
legacy before he moved on to the international scene. Nothing can
express our words of loss.


"The sad thing is that there was so much more to give."


Johnson believes Woolmer would have relished the chance to coach
England. He added: "I'm sure he would have loved to. But he was
very realistic and probably felt his best opportunity to do that
would have been a few years ago.


"But he would have loved it. He had a huge belief in the ability
of the England team."


Former Pakistan spinner Mushtaq Ahmed revealed Woolmer's
closeness to his squad means his death has hit them hard.


"He was a great man, a great human being and one of the best I
had come across because if his humbleness, he was very close to
the guys, had so much passion about the game.


"The guys are still crying and talking about it."

