

Bulgaria's arms and military equipment production amounted to 240
million dollars (180.4 million euros) in 2006 and most of it went
for export, the co- chairman of the Bulgarian Arms Industry
Association told Pari newspaper on Monday.


"Preliminary data show that the arms industry sold special
production worth 240 million dollars in 2006 and only 4.0-5.0
percent of it was for the internal market," Stefan Vodenicharov
was quoted as saying.


He did not identify the major buyers of Bulgarian weapons last
year.


But the country traditionally ships most of its military
production to Asia and Africa.


Arms exports in 2005 came to 218 million dollars, Vodenicharov
said, adding that the rising figures hardly measured up to
Bulgaria's arms exports 20 years ago.


In the Communist era prior to 1989, Bulgaria's annual arms
exports were valued at between 700 and 800 million dollars. The
arms industry employed 115,000 people compared to only 20,000
now.


The industry suffered a blow in the 1990s when it lost its Warsaw
Pact market as well as Arab and African countries hit by
international embargos.


Meanwhile, under pressure from the United States, Bulgarian
authorities kept applying ever stricter licencing regimes for
arms trading companies. Currently, all licences to firms and
authorisations of arms sale contracts are delivered by an inter-
ministerial council.


There are some 60 companies licenced to trade in arms in
Bulgaria.

