

Afghans say corruption is worse now than at any time in the past
nearly 30 years, including under Taliban and Soviet rule,
according to a survey Monday that warns of a risk to President
Hamid Karzai's government.


About 60 percent of 1,250 Afghans questioned for the survey by
Integrity Watch Afghanistan (IWA) thought his administration was
more corrupt than any since the start of communist rule in the
late 1970s.


The research and policy analysis group said perceptions were most
vivid when it came to the recent past but the findings
nonetheless reflected the beliefs of people today.


More than 60 percent of respondents said corruption had increased
their disaffection toward the state, "a figure so high that it
risks undermining the legitimacy of the state and its backers in
the international community," it said.


Around 93 percent believed more than half the public services
required a bribe, and more than half admitted to actually having
paid a bribe, with the courts seen as the most corrupt
institution.


"Corruption is endemic in Afghanistan, as it is in other post-
conflict countries where the state is in the process of
reconstruction that is associated with unprecedented levels of
international financial aid," the group said.


IWA said it was the most comprehensive survey on corruption to be
carried out in Afghanistan, although it only covered just over a
third of provinces.


Conducted between August and September 2006, it found corruption
had changed over the years.


"While under previous governments ethnic ties or political
leanings enabled corruption, today money has become all
important, and those with access to ready cash can buy government
appointments, bypass justice or evade police," it said.


IWA said its findings also suggested the deteriorating security
situation in the south was not only related to the growing
influence of Taliban insurgents but also to the incapacity of the
government to address corruption.

