

Australian share prices closed 0.40 percent higher Monday as
merger and acquisition activity in the financial sector dominated
trade, dealers said.


Despite losses on Wall Street Friday and another hike in Chinese
interest rates, regional markets showed little reaction Monday.


Dealers said they did not expect any immediate adverse impact on
Chinese demand for Australian commodities to result from
Beijing's latest effort to cool its fast growing economy, a major
customer for resources of all kinds.


Interest focused on the Bank of Queensland's proposed merger with
fellow regional Bendigo Bank to create an institution worth more
than 4.0 billion dollars, with other financials attracting
attention as a result.


The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 rose 23.4 points to close at
5,859.7 while the broader All Ordinaries gained 21.5 points to
5,839.3.


Turnover was 1.19 billion shares worth 4.43 billion dollars (3.52
billion US), with falls outnumbering rises 610 to 572 and 368
stocks unchanged.


"Merger and acquisition is clearly back on the agenda with Bank
of Queensland's bid for Bendigo starting the ball rolling," Bell
Potter Securities private investment advisor Stuart Smith said.


Speculation about further consolidation in the financial sector
was heightened by comments from SunCorp-Metway over the weekend
that it could be on the lookout for more acquisitions following
its 7.9 billion dollar takeover of general insurer Promina,
dealers said.


Bendigo Bank shares jumped 3.84 dollars or 29 percent to 17.05
dollars while Bank of Queensland eased 0.01 to 16.59. Suncorp-
Metway gained 0.59 to 21.55.


Other major banks were mixed. Commonwealth Bank rose 0.39 to
39.34 and St George gained 0.44 to 33.63 but National Australia
Bank fell 0.29 to 39.86, ANZ slipped 0.09 to 28.86 and Westpac
lost 0.31 to 25.45.


CommSec chief equities economist Craig James said China's
decision to hike interest rates was part of a careful policy by
Beijing but the concern was that more might be needed.


"The Chinese authorities are still well short of the target of
8.0 percent economic growth. With growth closer to 11 percent,
further tightening measures are likely, raising the risk of
policy mistakes," he said.


"We favour stocks in the materials sector but it is certainly not
a 'set-and- forget' strategy," James added.


In the resources, BHP Billiton closed up 0.55 at 28.35 and rival
miner Rio Tinto gained 0.80 to 74.50.


Telstra was steady at 4.29 and national airline Qantas was also
unchanged at 5.14.

