

US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice on Monday called for
patience on the fourth anniversary of the start of the war in
Iraq, vowing that a peaceful, civil society would eventually
prevail there.


"It will take some time for the violence to change," Rice told
NBC television.


"I would ask the American people to be patient. We have invested
a lot. It's worth the sacrifice and ultimately I believe that we
and the Iraqis together will prevail," she said.


While conceding that much had not gone well in the four years
since the US-led invasion, Rice said that there was much to be
heartened about in Iraq.


"Saddam Hussein is gone," she said. "The Iraqi people have an
opportunity of having been liberated from this tyrant to build a
country based on politics and not tyranny. They voted. They have
a constitution."


She said there were also signs of progress in defeating Iraq's
stubborn insurgency and the bloody sectarian violence that has
engulfed the country.


A new US military commander David Petraeus was in place and there
had been a fresh infusion of thousands of US troops on the
ground, she said.


"From the point of view of the US, the counter-insurgency
strategy that General Petraeus is now pursuing is a strategy that
has a chance to give the Iraqis a new opportunity to get their
political reconciliation in place," Rice said.


"That would stop my list of things that have gone right."


Despite the US secretary's upbeat assessment, sectarian violence
in Iraq sectarian conflict continued Monday in Iraq as gunmen
killed three civilians in attacks in the mainly Shiite town of
Hilla, south of Baghdad.


Another 14 Iraqis were killed and seven US troops were reported
dead on Sunday as the nation prepared to mark the fourth
anniversary on Tuesday of the US-led invasion that toppled Saddam
Hussein.

