

The dollar climbed against the euro and yen as markets digested a
Chinese interest rate rise and kept a close watch over global
stocks trading after recent turbulence.


The euro dipped to 1.3301 dollars in early European trading on
Monday from 1.3309 dollars late in New York on Friday.


The dollar climbed to 117.38 yen, from 116.70 yen late on Friday.


The dollar had initially wobbled in Asian trade after the Chinese
central bank announced a tightening of monetary policy over the
weekend.


"Players put in dollar-selling orders early Monday amid
speculation that China's rate hike might affect Asian stock
markets," said Yosuke Hosokawa, head of forex at Chuo Mitsui
Trust Bank.


"But selling pressure was subdued after they saw stocks remained
relatively calm," Hosokawa said.


The People's Bank of China (PBOC) announced Saturday that its
one-year borrowing and lending benchmark rates would be raised by
0.27 percentage points as part of efforts to keep the economic
boom in check.


"The rate hike announcement reinforces the PBOC's commitment to
slowing China's growth rate to a more sustainable pace. Both the
Chinese yuan and the yen strengthened post-announcement," said
National Australia Bank currency strategist John Kyriakopoulos.


Dealers were closely watching world stock markets after the
recent turbulence.


Europe's main stock markets travelled higher in morning trade on
Monday, boosted by news of a planned merger of German tourism
giant TUI and smaller British rival First Choice.


They rose also following a recovery across global markets, which
had suffered a rout last week on fears of an economic meltdown in
the United States.


The market is awaiting another batch of US economic data this
week including housing starts and existing house sales.


The markets do not expect any change in US interest rates but are
looking to the accompanying policy statement for their next lead
and guidance.


Dealers are wary about the risks of a slowdown in the US economy
after news that the number of bad mortgage loans is rising amid
financial troubles for some companies that lent to "sub-prime"
borrowers with patchy credit records.


The euro hit a three-month high of 1.3340 dollars briefly in US
trade on Friday on concerns the US economic momentum could be
losing steam in the face of the housing market downturn.


The US Federal Reserve holds a policy meeting on Tuesday and
Wednesday but is not expected to change its interest rates any
time soon, dealers said.


The Bank of Japan also began a two-day policy board meeting on
Monday but no change is expected after last month's quarter point
hike to 0.5 percent, which was the first increase since July.


The euro was changing hands at 1.3301 dollars, against 1.3309
dollars on Friday, 156.19 yen (155.47), 0.6843 pounds (0.6850)
and 1.6108 Swiss francs (1.6073).


The dollar stood at 117.38 yen (116.70) and 1.2107 Swiss francs
(1.2070).


The pound was being traded at 1.9446 dollars (1.9411).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold rose to 655
dollars per ounce, from 653.20 dollars late on Friday.

