

Two Airbus A380 superjumbos are making first-time test flights to
the United States on Monday, landing in Los Angeles and New York.


A first A380, the world's largest commercial airliner, took off
before dawn from Toulouse-Blagnac airport in southern France
bound for Los Angeles on the US west coast. Once there, it will
undergo tests of its airport maneuverability and terminal parking
capability.


The flight is being conducted in conjunction with Qantas Airways
of Australia, which has ordered 12 A380s and has plans in
principle to buy eight more.


A second A380 is to leave Frankfurt, Germany later in the morning
for John F. Kennedy Airport in New York, carrying 500 passengers
invited by Airbus. At the controls will be Airbus test pilots as
well as pilots from the German carrier Lufthansa, which has
ordered 15 A380s.


From New York, the plane will fly to Chicago, returning to New
York on Tuesday and Frankfurt on Wednesday. It will then take off
for Hong Kong on March 24, stopping in Washington DC on March 25
and Munich, Germany on March 28 on its way back to Airbus
headquarters in Toulouse.


The first A380 for commercial use is scheduled to be delivered to
Singapore Airlines in October. Delivery had been planned for the
spring of 2006 but was delayed because of production problems,
notably with the aircraft's electrical cabling.


Singapore Airlines has ordered 19 A380s and has an option to
acquire six additional planes.


The A380, which can carry between 555 and 845 passengers
depending on seat configuration, has made test flights to 40
airports around the world.

