

Most Turks believe the state should help preserve different
religious and ethnic groups in the face of rising nationalism,
according to a poll published Monday.


The poll by the Konda institution published in the Milliyet daily
showed that 66.4 percent believe the state should support efforts
to protect ethnic differences as opposed to 33.6 percent who say
it should not.


A total of 76.4 percent said the state should be involved in
efforts to preserve different religious groups while 23.6 percent
said it should not.


The poll, conducted among 48,000 people countrywide in October,
comes at a time of intense debate over surging nationalism
following the murder of an ethnic Armenian journalist by a
suspected ultranationalist grouping.


Turkey is home to tiny minorities of Jews, Armenians and Greeks,
as well as a sizeable Kurdish community in the southeast, where
separatist rebels have waged a bloody 22-year campaign for self-
rule.


Improving the freedoms of its Kurdish and non-Muslim minorities
is one of the key elements in Turkey's troubled accession talks
with the European Union.


Analysts say nationalist feelings are on the rise in Turkey, and
attribute this mainly to EU pressure for change.


Many Turks fear the government is making too many concessions to
Brussels and that Europeans do not really want a mainly Muslim,
relatively poor country of some 70 million people in their union.


Last year, the EU partly froze Turkey's membership talks over its
failure to grant trade privileges to Cyprus, an EU member it does
not recognise.

