

India's parliament Monday called for new laws to protect children
in the wake of the slaughter of at least 21 people, mostly
minors, discovered last year and which a lawmaker termed a
"national shame."


The debate on India's most gruesome serial killings in decades
came as federal detectives said they would soon bring formal
charges against the key suspects in the killings, businessman
Moninder Singh Pandher and his servant Surinder Koli.


Parliament's lower house shelved thorny issues such as last
week's deaths of 14 protesting farmers in a police firing, and
demanded guarantees from the government that children who are
often home alone would be granted extra protection.


"It is a national shame," MP Archana Nayak said of the serial
killings exposed December 29 after police found body parts in
sewers around Pandher's stylish bungalow outside the capital --
dubbed "House of Horrors" by the media.


"The government must make laws more stringent and ensure that due
punishment is given to the culprits," she added.


Residents of a village near the bungalow say that as many as 40
children have disappeared since 2004.


The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), probing the murders in
Noida, a suburb of New Delhi, said it had wrapped up its
assignment.


"Our charge sheet is now ready, which we will present before the
court," a senior CBI official said without willing to be named.


Both Pandher and Koli are being held in solitary confinement in a
maximum- security New Delhi prison to protect them from possible
attacks by fellow inmates.


Many Indian lawyers have refused to defend the pair, saying the
allegations are too gruesome.

