

The BBC appealed on Monday to "everyone with influence" in the
Palestinian territories to help find one of its journalists who
was kidnapped at gunpoint a week ago in the Gaza Strip.


Alan Johnston, the London-based broadcaster's main correspondent
in Gaza, was forced from his car by gunmen while driving home
from work on March 12. There has been no information on his
whereabouts since.


"We call on everyone with influence on this situation... it is
time to redouble our efforts, all of us, now that Alan has been
missing for more than a week," BBC Middle East bureau chief Simon
Wilson told a press conference in Gaza City.


The 44-year-old Johnston, a seasoned reporter whose previous
postings have included Uzbekistan and Afghanistan, has been
reporting for the BBC from Gaza for three years, one of the few
Western journalists to be based in the increasingly lawless
territory.


Both Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas and the Islamist Hamas
movement, the majority party in the governing coalition, have
condemned the abduction, the latest in a spate of kidnappings of
foreigners in Gaza that has seen around 20 seized over the past
year.


The hostages are normally used as bargaining chips to gain
concessions from the Palestinian Authority and so far all have
been released unharmed.


The last foreigner to be abducted in Gaza was AFP photographer
Jaime Razuri of Peru, who was snatched outside the news agency's
offices in Gaza City on January 1 and released unharmed a week
later.


The longest captivity so far endured by foreign hostages in Gaza
was the two week ordeal last August of two journalists for the
US-based Fox News television network.

