

Finnish Prime Minister Matti Vanhanen was to hold talks Monday
with the heads of the conservative and Social Democratic parties
in a bid to form a parliamentary majority after weekend
elections, his office said.


Finland has since 2003 been governed by Vanhanen's centre-left
coalition, but a centre-right alliance led by Vanhanen looks like
the most probable outcome after Sunday's legislative election.


Vanhanen's Centre Party remained the biggest party in the country
by a hair, winning a one-seat advantage in parliament over the
conservative National Coalition Party, which is seeking a place
in government after four years in the opposition.


The Social Democrats, who have governed together with the Centre
since 2003, registered one of their worst election scores in the
party's history.


The party looks set to lose its place in government if the Centre
Party and the conservatives manage to agree a joint programme, as
observers expect.


"The discussions will be very difficult. The programme is the
most important," Vanhanen warned after Sunday's election.


Conservative leader Jyrki Katainen has already insisted that his
party be given a place in government after its strong showing in
the vote. Anything else "would be an insult to the results," he
said.


However, the head of the Social Democrats, Eero Heinaeluoma, said
"the government issue remains open."


"Half a million Finns voted for us," he added.


The possibility of a grand coalition grouping the three main
parties was not seen as likely.


The Centre won 23.1 percent of votes and 51 seats, ahead of the
Conservatives who won 22.3 percent and 50 seats, with just 23,000
votes separating the two parties.


The Social Democrats won 21.4 percent of votes and 45 seats.


As custom dictates, Vanhanen is expected to tender his
government's resignation on March 28. The formation of a new
government is expected in mid-April.

