

The nuclear facility used by North Korea to produce atomic bombs
is still in operation, a senior intelligence official was
reported as saying Monday.


North Korea agreed to close a five-megawatt nuclear reactor in
Yongbyon and invite back International Atomic Energy Agency
(IAEA) inspectors in exchange for diplomatic and economic
incentives under a six-nation agreement last month.


"The five-megawatt reactor in Yongbyon is in normal operation at
present, considering a constant stream of steam spotted from its
cooling tower," an unidentified senior South Korean intelligence
official told Yonhap news agency.


China's state-run television news reported that North Korean
officials at six- nation talks in Beijing had indicated Pyongyang
had already begun preparatory work to shut down the Yongbyon
reactor.


The South Korean official, however, said steam coming from the
cooling tower showed the reactor was still working.


"Therefore, North Korea's suspension of the Yongbyon reactor will
be confirmed by the halt of its cooling-tower steam or an on-the-
spot inspection by IAEA inspectors," he was quoted as saying.


Meanwhile, North Korea's nuclear envoy Kim Kye-Gwan said Monday
that his country would close its main nuclear reactor once US
financial sanctions are lifted.


"Nuclear activities will stop at Yongbyon if the sanctions are
fully lifted," an official involved in the six-nation talks
quoted Kim as telling his fellow envoys.


The United States announced earlier Monday that it had struck a
deal with the North on their long-running financial sanctions
dispute, which has been a major stumbling block in the six-nation
talks.


Chief US nuclear envoy Christopher Hill said that all of the
roughly 25 million dollars in North Korean funds frozen in a
Macau-based bank over accusations of money laundering and
counterfeiting would be released.

