

Nepal's premier and its Maoist leader said Monday they would hold
elections by June as planned to ensure the sidelined king does
not make a political comeback.


The two -- Prime Minister Girija Prasad Koirala and former rebel
leader Prachanda -- signed a landmark peace deal last year after
King Gyanendra gave up absolute rule in the face of mass
protests.


But the pair have yet to agree on a government structure since
the Maoists were admitted to parliament in January, meaning
delays in preparing the election, the country's election chief
said.


"We urge the government to announce the constituent assembly
elections date as soon as possible so that the commission can
finish necessary preparations," Chief Election Commissioner Bhoj
Raj Pokharel said.


The prime minister said the elections for a constituent assembly
to rewrite the constitution would be held as planned, especially
because the time lag could give the monarchy time to regroup.


"The government is committed to holding constituent assembly
elections on time. If the elections are not conducted on time,
reactionary forces will get a chance to make a comeback," Koirala
said.


Politicians in Nepal often use the term "reactionary forces" to
refer to supporters of the king, whose future role in the country
-- if any -- will be decided by the constituent assembly.


The former rebels were also committed to hold the elections on
time, Prachanda said.


"A disastrous situation will be created if the elections are not
conducted within the fixed time. Our party is ready to cooperate
with the government to hold the elections on time," said
Prachanda, whose name means "the fierce one."


At least 13,000 people died in the decade-long Maoist rebellion.

