

Israeli veterans of the 1973 Middle East war on Monday backed
claims aired in an Israeli documentary that Egyptian soldiers had
killed Israeli prisoners of war in the conflict.


The documentary, aired on the privately owned Channel 10
television on Sunday night, comes in the wake of another film
broadcast here last month that charged that Israelis killed
Egyptian PoWs during the 1967 Arab-Israeli War.


Those charges have sparked a diplomatic storm and soured
relations between the Jewish state and Egypt, one of only two
Arab countries to have diplomatic relations with Israel.


Issachar Ben-Gavriel, who fought in the 1973 war, told army radio
that he saw a group of 19 Israeli soldiers holding white flags
with their hands up near the Suez Canal in the Sinai mowed down
by Egyptian fire.


"They simply killed 11 of them," he said.


Another veteran, Eitan Mor-Gan, said that "the Egyptians lined
captured Israeli soldiers against the wall and opened fire on
them."


Channel 10's military affairs correspondent, Allon Ben David, who
participated in the making of the documentary aired on Sunday,
said: "Inquiries into the behaviour of the Egyptian army during
its wars against Israel show that hundreds of Israeli soldiers
captured by the Egyptians were killed in cold blood."


In February, Israeli television aired a documentary that stirred
accusations that up to 250 Egyptian PoWs were killed by a unit
commanded by Benjamin Ben- Eliezer, currently the national
infrastructure minister.


The film raised an outcry in Egypt, with protests, official calls
for an investigation and a threat by an influential parliamentary
committee to review relations with Israel.


Israel has repeatedly denied that its soldiers killed Egyptian
prisoners during the 1967 Six Day War, and the film's director
later admitted to mistakenly identifying Palestinian fighters
killed in combat as Egyptians PoWs.

