

North Korea's under-17 football squad will arrive Tuesday for a
12-day training session in South Korea in a further sign of
warming relations on the peninsula.


The squad will arrive early Tuesday at Incheon International
Airport before flying to the southern holiday island of Jeju,
officials from the Korea Football Association said.


It will focus on preparations for the FIFA U-17 World Cup which
South Korea will host this summer, said an association official
quoted by Yonhap news agency.


It will be the first visit to the South by a North Korean sports
team since the North took part in an East Asian football
competition in August 2005.


The North Koreans will play various friendlies with university
and high school teams from March 24 to 27 before meeting the
South Korean national under-17 team on March 30.


The 23 players and nine coaches will move from Jeju to the
southwestern city of Gwangju and then to Suwon just south of
Seoul before finishing their training in the capital.


North-South relations cooled after the North's missile tests last
July, and were further soured by the October nuclear test.


But the two sides resumed high-level talks early this month, with
Seoul agreeing in principle to resume crucial food aid.


Officials quoted by Yonhap said Jeju has invited the North
Koreans to foster peace and promote the subtropical island as an
international venue.


The North Koreans became favorites for the FIFA U-17 World Cup
after they captured the Asia Football Confederation's Youth
Championship with a 5-3 penalty shootout win over Japan last
year.


Eight South Korean cities will host the U-17 World Cup, in which
23 teams will take part, from August 18 to September 9.

