

Oil-rich Kuwait posted record income of 14.38 billion dinars
(49.75 billion dollars) in the first 11 months of the fiscal year
ending this month, the finance ministry said on Monday.


According to figures posted on the ministry website, revenues are
up 16.7 percent on the 42.6 billion dollars posted in the same
period of the previous year and already exceed the 47 billion
dollars posted for the whole of 2005-6.


Receipts also already exceed by a massive 68.6 percent the
government's whole year projection of 29.5 billion dollars.


Oil revenues reached 47 billion dollars, up 16.3 percent on the
same period of 2005-6 and 75 percent higher than the budget
projection of 26.8 billion dollars, the ministry figures showed.


For the purposes of budget projections, oil income, which
contributes 95 percent of total revenues, is calculated at the
conservative price of 36 dollars a barrel while the actual price
of Kuwaiti oil has averaged around 58 dollars this fiscal year.


Kuwaiti oil output averaged 2.47 million barrels per day over the
past 11 months, but in recent months the emirate has cut
production to 2.4 million bpd in line with OPEC decisions to trim
crude supplies to boost prices.


Non-oil revenues amounted to 2.75 billion dollars compared to 2.2
billion dollars a year ago.


Spending in the first 11 months was 6.95 billion dinars (24
billion dollars), up 61 percent on last fiscal year's expenditure
of 14.9 billion dollars.


National Bank of Kuwait said in its latest economic report that
most of the increase was due to extraordinary one-off transfers
of seven billion dollars to the social security agency and an
emiri grant to citizens.


But it added that even excluding these two transfers, expenditure
still showed solid growth of 19 percent.


Spending at the end of the fiscal year is certain to increase
sharply due to adjustments in the closing accounts which normally
exceed 20 percent, NBK said.


The budget had foreseen revenue of 29.5 billion dollars and
expenditure of 38.5 billion dollars, leaving a projected deficit
of nine billion dollars.


But analysts forecast that Kuwait will actually post a surplus of
around 17 billion dollars. It will the eighth straight year the
budget has been in the black.


In the fiscal year that ended March 31, Kuwait posted a record
surplus of 23.84 billion dollars, to add to the 30 billion
dollars of surplus collected in the previous six years.


Finance Minister Bader Mishari al-Humaidhi has said that Kuwait's
financial assets, mostly invested overseas, reached 166 billion
dollars a year ago.


Kuwait sits on 10 percent of the world's oil reserves. It has a
native population of one million people, in addition to 2.16
million foreign residents.


By law, 10 percent of total revenues are placed in the Kuwait
Fund for Future Generations. Returns on the fund's assets,
estimated at well over five billion dollars a year, do not figure
in the budget.

