

Hong Kong share prices closed 1.65 percent higher led by China
Mobile and select blue chips on expectations that they will post
strong 2006 results this week, dealers said.


They said fresh talk of A-share listings on the mainland by some
Hong Kong- listed firms, including China Mobile and Bank of
Communications, also helped sentiment.


China's interest rate hike had a muted impact on the market as
the move had been largely expected after a series of strong
economic data, with the Chinese markets also posting sharp gains
to provide additional support for Hong Kong.


The Hang Seng Index closed up 313.24 points at 19,266.74, off a
low of 18,967.41 and just off the day's high of 19,267.83.
Turnover was 38 billion dollars (4.78 billion US).


"Fund inflows helped drive up China Mobile and other blue chips
amid hopes of strong results this week," said Conita Hung,
research head at Delta Asia Securities.


"Talk of A-share listings by major firms including China Mobile
is also supporting sentiment, offsetting the effect of the
interest rate hike" in China, she said.


The People's Bank of China said it raised interest rates by 27
basis points, taking the benchmark one-year bank deposit rate to
2.79 percent and the one-year lending rate to 6.39 percent.


Gains in China markets despite the hike in interest rates
encouraged buying of H-shares in Hong Kong, dealers said. The
Hang Seng China Enterprises Index closed up 112.30 points or 1.23
percent at 9,225.26.


China Mobile was up 2.35 dollars at 72.15 dollars ahead of its
full-year results on Wednesday. The company is also said to be
planning an A-share listing on the mainland.


China Telecom gained 0.07 to 3.60 and China Netcom was up 0.60 at
17.42.


Among local blue chips, Li Ka-shing's Cheung Kong rose 1.20 to
93.50 and unit Hutchison Whampoa gained 1.00 to 73.25 ahead of
their results announcement on Thursday.


Besides the earnings announcements, investors are waiting for the
US Federal Reserve's comments on inflation and the housing market
outlook following its policy meeting this week, Hung of Delta
Asia Securities said.


The Fed will begin a two-day policy meeting on Tuesday.


Among local banks, HSBC was up 1.00 at 134.70, Hang Seng Bank was
up 1.40 at 108.60 and Bank of East Asia up 0.10 at 43.10.


Among China financials, China Construction Bank added 0.04 at
4.39 and ICBC put on 0.05 at 4.29 while China Life was up 0.85 at
21.85.


Bank of China was up 0.07 at 3.84 after it said it expects its
net profit for 2006 to have risen over 50 percent.


PetroChina was up 0.07 at 8.73 ahead of its 2006 results
announcement.


The company announced after market close a net profit of 142.22
billion yuan for 2006, up from 133.36 billion a year earlier, on
revenue of 688.98 billion yuan compared with 552.23 billion
dollars.

