

Negotiators haggled against the clock Monday to try to free an
Italian journalist seized two weeks ago by Taliban militants,
hours ahead of a deadline for his life.


A Taliban commander threatened last week to kill Daniele
Mastrogiacomo, 52, if a series of demands were not met by Monday
evening, notably the release of some Taliban figures in Afghan
government custody.


A top security official told AFP that the government had agreed
to free two Taliban in exchange for the correspondent and his
Afghan translator.


But a "mechanism" for the exchange could not be agreed on Sunday,
he said.


"Talks were resumed again today," the senior intelligence
official said Monday, asking to remain anonymous.


The two Taliban -- a former spokesman and an information official
-- had already been moved to Lashkar Gah, the capital of Helmand
province, for any exchange, he said.


"Right now we're waiting for the Taliban response," he added.


The Italian embassy in Kabul said that there had been no
developments since Sunday.


A Taliban spokesman told AFP Sunday that Mastrogiacomo and the
translator, captured in Helmand on March 4, had been handed to
tribal elders pending a final deal for their release.


The spokesman, Yousuf Ahmadi, said the government had agreed to
hand back the two Taliban but the group wanted a third man --
another former spokesman, Mohammad Hanif, arrested in October in
Afghanistan.


"If Hanif is not released, we'll take back the journalists...
Once Hanif is released, the elders can take the Italian anywhere
he wishes to go -- we'll let him go," he said.


Mastrogiacomo, employed by the left-leaning La Repubblica
newspaper, begged for efforts for his release in a recorded
message obtained by the independent Pajhwok Afghan News on
Thursday.


"Please do something as they have only two days, from now. After
that they will kill us, please, please, only two days,"
Mastrogiacomo is heard saying.

