

The BBC said Monday it was "increasingly concerned" for the
safety of a reporter kidnapped at gunpoint in the Gaza Strip a
week ago.


The British broadcaster added it was disappointed that there had
been no news on Alan Johnston's fate and called on "everyone with
influence on this situation to redouble their efforts".


Johnston, 44, has not been seen since he left the BBC's bureau in
Gaza last Monday. He was forced from his car by gunmen while
driving home, the latest in a spate of abductions of foreigners
in the area.


"Although we have not been able to establish exactly what has
happened to Alan, it seems certain that he has been abducted and
is being held somewhere in the Gaza Strip," the BBC said in a
statement.


"As time passes, we are growing increasingly concerned about
Alan's safety," it said.


"Over the past week, we have worked intensively with the
authorities in Gaza and elsewhere to try to locate Alan and we
continue to receive assurances that everything possible is being
done."


But it added: "It is disappointing that, after seven days, there
has still been no firm word either about his whereabouts or his
condition.


"We call on everyone with influence on this situation to redouble
their efforts now that Alan has been missing for more than one
week."


The BBC had previously thanked Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas
and prime minister Ismail Haniya for their help in trying to find
Johnston.


Abbas and the Islamist Hamas movement have condemned the
kidnapping and ordered security services to secure his release as
quickly as possible.

