

Somali and Ugandan troops on Monday secured Mogadishu seaport
ahead of the arrival of military hardware for African Union
peacekeepers deployed in the volatile Somali capital.


"Access to the seaport will be extremely limited for security
reasons because the AU is receiving a delivery of equipment for
their peacekeepers," said Captain Paddy Ankunda, spokesman for
the Ugandan forces.


The Ugandans have been the first of the AU troops to deploy, amid
violent attacks, in the coastal capital. Some 1,200 Ugandan
troops of a total 1,500 have already deployed.


Hundreds of Somali troops and dozens of Ugandans deployed around
the port for the delivery, which starts Friday, of Ugandan
military vehicles arriving by sea from the Kenyan port of
Mombasa.


Ankunda gave no timescale for the deployment but said that
heightened security measures, including police searches of
vehicles heading towards the port, would last only during the
delivery of the Ugandan equipment.


Violence in Mogadishu, the scene of almost daily attacks,
increased around the seaport Sunday, with one civilian was killed
and 11 wounded in a series of incidents.


In the southern port town of Kismayo meanwhile, police chief
Major Abdi Mohamed Abdulle was shot dead by one of his own
bodyguards.


Late Sunday evening in Mogadishu, government troops at the
seaport fired at boats at sea.


Somali forces and their US-backed Ethiopian allies have been
battling an increasing insurgency since they routed a powerful
Islamist movement from south and central Somalia in January.


Earlier this month, the AU deployed some 1,200 Ugandan troops to
the Horn of Africa nation, part of a proposed 8,000-strong force
aimed at enabling Ethiopian troops to leave and Somali forces to
take over.


The AU mission is the first international peacekeeping venture
since an ill- fated UN-backed, US-led peace mission launched in
the early 1990s.

