

Singapore's Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong held talks Monday in
Japan where he agreed to cooperate to avert chaos on financial
markets, but he looked set to disagree on emotive history issues.


Lee, who arrived on Sunday for a four-day visit, had lunch with
Emperor Akihito at the imperial palace ahead of an evening summit
with Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.


The Singaporean premier late Sunday held talks with Finance
Minister Koji Omi and agreed to "step up the two countries'
cooperation in the financial sector so as not to repeat a
regional financial crisis," a finance ministry official said.


Financial markets in the region have been rattled by recent
turbulence, which was sparked in part by a plunge on shares on
the Shanghai Stock Exchange on February 27.


Singapore has built warm relations with Japan since World War II
and the two countries have a free-trade agreement. But Lee
signalled that he may clash with Abe on history issues.


Abe, known for his conservative views on the wartime past, caused
outrage earlier this month when he said there was no evidence
that imperial Japan forced women into sexual slavery.


Lee, in an interview with Japanese media last week, said Tokyo
should be careful so as not to cause concern.


"These are historical events which took place, for which many
historians have published very well documented studies, so I
don't think there is anything more for me to add," Lee said in
the interview, as quoted by Kyodo News.


Japan captured Singapore in February 1942 in the British
military's biggest ever surrender. Singaporean historians say
Japanese forces killed 50,000 ethnic Chinese in the island city
before surrendering in 1945.

