

German travel giant TUI moved Monday to cement its position as
Europe's leading travel and tourism group by announcing plans to
merge it tourism division with British rival First Choice.


The merger represents further consolidation of the European
tourism industry, with the announcement coming one month after
package holiday specialists Thomas Cook and MyTravel confirmed
they were to carry out their own German-British tie- up.


Meanwhile the market cheered the move, with the share price of
First Choice up nearly 10.0 percent and TUI more than 7.0 percent
higher in early European trading.


"We are pleased that the Board of First Choice has decided
unanimously to support the creation of TUI Travel PLC," TUI chief
executive Michael Frenzel said in a statement.


"The new company will be a leading worldwide travel group, with
approximately 27 million customers per year in over 200
destinations.


"The combination of First Choice's fast growing specialist
businesses and our strong momentum in the mainstream sector
creates a solid platform from which to accelerate growth
opportunities," Frenzel added.


The new group would be headquartered in Britain and its shares
traded on the London Stock Exchange.


It was estimated by TUI and First Choice that TUI Travel would
have proforma revenues of 12.1 billion pounds (17.6 billion
euros, 23.4 billion dollars).


The pair also predicted the merger, which excludes certain hotel
assets, would deliver pre-tax cost benefits of at least 100
million pounds annually, to be fully realised within three years
of completion.


TUI Travel would be 51 percent owned by TUI and 49 percent owned
by the existing shareholders of First Choice. TUI would
contribute 875 million euros of net financial debt, including all
pensions liabilities currently associated with TUI Travel.


Frenzel would chair the new group, while the role of chief
executive would fall to First Choice chief executive Peter Long.


The merger is conditional upon the approval of First Choice
shareholders and anti-trust authorities. Approval by TUI
shareholders was not required.


In early morning trading, the share price in First Choice
rocketed 9.15 percent to 310 pence on London's second tier FTSE
250 index. TUI soared 7.39 percent to 17.73 euros in Frankfurt.


One London-based trader said the merger should spark further
sector consolidation hopes, as the newly merged group "would be
able to take on MyTravel, consolidating an industry which is
under pressure from no-frills carriers."


The broker also noted that TUI stands to benefit as it will now
be able to "focus on its shipping/logistics unit, which is the
one that holds value for the German group."

