

The governor of Nigeria's Plateau State, who faced money
laundering charges, has resumed work after five months in hiding
following a supreme court order for his reinstatement, private
television channels said Monday.


Joshua Dariye was removed from office by a faction in the central
state's legislature late last year after fleeing from London
where he was indicted on money laundering charges.


The British court had heard that Dariye used to spend tens of
thousands of pounds of state funds on private school fees, paid
air ambulance bills for his friends, and pocketed about 200,000
pounds (298,000 euros, 391,000 dollars) of "cleaned-up cash"
during one of his several holidays to London.


But Nigeria's highest court last Friday ruled that the
legislators did not have the necessary quorum to impeach the
governor.


Dariye disappeared on the eve of his impeachment and his
whereabouts were unknown until Sunday when he emerged in the
Plateau State city of Jos to make a broadcast, Channels said.


Dariye's term in office expires on May 29 when a new governor
will be sworn in after Nigeria's provincial elections.


When Dariye was arrested in 2004 in London, one million pounds
(1.9 million dollars, 1.5 million euros) were found in his hotel
room. He was briefly detained and then granted bail but fled
London to escape trial.


Several governors have been sacked for graft since 1999 when
Nigeria returned to civil rule, while 31 out of the nation's 36
governors have been investigated for corruption by the national
Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC).


EFCC head Nuuhu Ribadu has said those charged would face trial
after leaving office on May 29 when they will lose their immunity
and become ordinary citizens.

