

A former pizza delivery man was found guilty of murdering 10
women and one of his victims' unborn babies on Monday, confirming
him as one of the worst serial killers in Los Angeles history.


Chester Turner, 40, was convicted at Los Angeles Superior Court
after a four- week trial which heard how he preyed on women
largely in the city's rundown South Central neighborhood during
an 11-year reign of terror.


Prosecutor Bobby Grace said in opening statements Turner was
"perhaps the most prolific killer in the city of Los Angeles."


Turner, who denied 11 counts of murder, was caught after being
arrested for rape in Los Angeles' homeless district in 2002.


DNA from that case linked Turner to the murders, which were
carried out between 1987 and 1998.


"Case after case after case comes back to Chester Turner," the
prosecutor said, referring to the DNA evidence.


The prosecutor showed jurors photos of the victims alive and
dead, noting that all of them had been strangled.


"These are the victims of a killer," Grace said. "Time has
passed, and we've waited for the name of that killer to emerge.
Today, we can say the name of that killer -- Chester Turner."


Prosecutors said two of Turner's victims -- 27-year-old Regina
Washington and 29 -year-old Andrea Tripplett -- were heavily
pregnant when murdered.


Turner was charged with murdering Washington's six-and-a-half
month old fetus in 1989 but was not charged with killing
Tripplett's unborn child during a 1993 attack.


Turner faces the death penalty. The penalty phase of the trial
will begin on Wednesday.


Turner also becomes one of Los Angeles' most notorious killers,
joining the so- called "Freeway Killer" William Bonin, who was
convicted of 14 murders and "Night Stalker" Richard Ramirez who
was found guilty of 13.

