

Britain's domestic intelligence service MI5 is the most desirable
employer for male university graduates, and the third most
desirable for female graduates, according to a survey published
Tuesday.


Overall, the Trendence Institute poll for the Financial Times
business daily had the Security Service -- MI5's official name --
ranked second with 9.4 percent of respondents wanting to work
there, behind only the BBC at 14.2 percent.


It topped male graduates' list of the best places to work, with
12.8 percent of men listing it as "desirable". Women listed it
third at 8.4 percent behind the BBC and the government-run
National Health Service (NHS).


The survey marks a remarkable transformation for MI5 and its
sister agency responsible for foreign intellignce, MI6, in recent
years.


A year ago, MI5 began widening its recruitment net to include
more ethnic minorities after being criticised for lacking the
resources to prevent the July 7, 2005 attacks on London's
transport network.


In that time, both MI5 and MI6 -- which did not even officially
exist in government records until 1994 -- began publicly
advertising job vacancies, inviting applications.


After the BBC and MI5 on the overall list of Britain's most
attractive employers were the NHS, global accountancy firm
PricewaterhouseCoopers, and internet search giant Google
respectively.


Trendence questioned 24,507 final-year students at 111
universities in Britain, including the Russell Group of 19 of the
country's top universities.


Respondents were able to choose between 130 listed employers, and
could add their own options to the list. They were asked to list
10 "attractive" options, and of those, three were to be chosen as
"desirable."

