

After a decade in power, British Prime Minister Tony Blair will
be best remembered for the war in Iraq, according to a poll
published Tuesday.


Despite that, the CommunicateResearch survey for The Independent
newspaper showed that a solid majority still believed he had been
a good prime minister.


Some 69 percent of those questioned said that his decision to
take Britain into the US-led coalition that invaded Iraq in March
2003 will be what Blair will be remembered for best, with his
relationship with US President George W. Bush a distant second at
nine percent.


His work on the Northern Ireland peace process -- the two main
rival Catholic and Protestant political parties are set to form a
power-sharing government in the troubled British province this
month, after decades of unrest -- was third at six percent.


Even though Britain's involvement in Iraq has been deeply
unpopular and has hurt Blair's Labour Party in the polls, 61
percent of respondents still said he had been a good prime
minister. By contrast, 36 percent said he had been a bad prime
minister.


The poll comes as Blair marks a decade as Britain's prime
minister, and ahead of crucial elections for some local councils
across England, as well as regional assemblies in Scotland and
Wales, where Labour is expected to fare poorly.


It is widely anticipated that Blair will step down in the
aftermath of those polls, having publicly pledged last September
to resign within a year.


CommunicateResearch questioned 1,001 adults by telephone between
April 27 and 29.

