

The United States and European Union formally signed an "open
skies" accord Monday aimed at opening up more competition in
transatlantic aviation.


US President George W. Bush signed the agreement along with
European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso and German
Chancellor Angela Merkel on the sidelines of a US-EU summit in
Washington.


The agreement, the fruit of several years of negotiations, will
take effect next March 30 and will eliminate most limitations on
US and EU airlines' ability to fly between the two continents.


"With this agreement, the honeymoon in Paris, the business trip
to Dublin, and family reunion in Naples will be cheaper, easier,
and within the reach of more Americans than ever before," said US
Transportation Secretary Mary Peters.


"Also, better access to American destinations means European
visitors will bring new business to our local communities."


Both sides hold out the promise of cheaper airfares and more
choice for passengers under the hard-fought agreement.


The European Union estimates it could generate more than 26
million extra passengers over the next five years and create
80,000 new jobs in the EU and United States combined.


Under the draft agreement, any EU carrier would be able to fly
from anywhere in the bloc to any point in the United States and
vice versa. But EU airlines will still not be able to operate
domestic US routes.


Unanimous EU agreement on the deal was possible only after
ministers overcame British reservations about competition out of
Heathrow, by delaying the date of application to the end of March
2008.

