

The world's fifth space tourist, Hungarian-born American
billionaire Charles Simonyi, received the Great Cross, one of
Hungary's highest awards, from President Laszlo Solyom Monday in
Budapest.


Solyom said ex-Microsoft whiz kid Simonyi, 58, had "contributed
to increasing Hungary's international renown" and thanked him for
speaking from space several times in Hungarian and for noting his
important ties to the country.


Simonyi, who left his native Hungary at the age of 17 for the
United States, replied that he was touched by this award and by
Hungary's interest in his space flight.


"I am grateful that you understand what Hungary, which I still
hold in my heart, means to me on top of my American citizenship,"
he said, as he handed Solyom a Hungarian flag that had traveled
to the International Space Station.


Simonyi also met with a group of children Monday with whom he
shared his experiences.


The purpose of his brief visit to his country of origin was
mainly to promote science, Simonyi said, adding that he was
delighted that four million people had read his Internet blog,
www.charlesinspace.com.


Simonyi returned to earth on April 21 after a 25-million-dollar
trip to the International Space Station that lasted 14 days, a
record for space tourists.


He was the fifth tourist to travel to the ISS, following Dennis
Tito (2001) and Greg Olsen (2005) of the United States, South
Africa's Mark Shuttleworth (2002) and an American of Iranian
origin, Anousheh Ansari (2006).

