

A top human rights adviser to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice
announced his resignation Monday, the latest in a string of
senior State Department officials to quit as the administration
of President George W. Bush winds to a close.


Barry Lowenkron, assistant secretary of state for democracy,
human rights and labor, will leave within weeks to become a vice
president with the MacArthur Foundation, a private grant-making
enterprise, State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said.


The departure of Lowenkron, who notably oversaw the State
Department's annual human rights report, was announced just three
days after the surprise resignation of one of Rice's two
deputies, foreign aid director Randall Tobias.


Tobias quit on Friday after being named in the media as a client
of a Washington DC call-girl ring.


Rice has lost a string of senior aides in recent months,
beginning with her former top deputy, Robert Zoellick, who left
last year to work for a Wall Street investment bank.


Her counselor, Philip Zelikow, resigned in January to return to
teaching and the State Department's planning director, Stephen
Krasner, quit in March.


The State Department's two highest profile hawks, former UN
ambassador John Bolton and non-proliferation chief Bob Joseph,
also left earlier this year and have since sniped at Rice's
willingness to negotiate a disarmament deal with North Korea.


A senior State Department official indicated that the spate of
resignations could continue as Bush nears the end of his mandate
in January 2009.


"It's only natural as you get towards the end of the second term
that people are going to be moving on," he said. "The secretary
understands."

