

The Palestinian government of prime minister Ismail Haniya has
established contact with the kidnappers of a BBC journalist in
the Gaza Strip, a senior official said on Monday.


It was the first time that a Palestinian official confirmed
contact with those holding Alan Johnston, snatched at gunpoint
seven weeks ago as he drove home from work in Gaza City on March
12.


"An envoy of Ismail Haniya met representatives of Johnston's
kidnappers today and conveyed a firm message in the name of the
government that they have to free him immediately," the official
told AFP on condition of anonymity.


Haniya heads the Palestinian unity government and belongs to the
Islamist movement Hamas -- branded by the West as a terrorist
organisation.


Palestinian deputy prime minister Azzam al-Ahmed, meanwhile, said
the kidnappers had conveyed "demands" for Johnston's release but
he specified only that they were of a "political and ideological"
nature.


Azzam also said the kidnappers had stressed that the journalist
-- who has now been held far longer than any other Western
hostage in the Gaza Strip -- was in "good" health.


On April 15, a little-known Islamist group claimed in a statement
to have killed him, but Palestinian authorities have said there
was no proof of the claim by the Kataeb al-Jihad al-Tawheed (The
Brigades of Holy War and Unity).


Johnston, 44, was the only Western journalist left working full-
time in the increasingly dangerous Gaza Strip when he was
abducted.

