

A spokesman for Mali's President Amadou Toumani Toure on Monday
claimed the incumbent leader had a second five-year term in a
weekend election, but the opposition countered by crying foul.


"The curve is very clearly in favour of our candidate ... who is
largely ahead, according to the first results sent to us by our
representatives at the counting centres," Hassan Barry told AFP.


Said Barry: "In view of these results, he will be elected in the
first round with an overwhelming score."


If confirmed, that would mean Toure won an outright majority in
Sunday's election which would automatically make the president
the winner without the need for a knockout second round of
voting.


But the main opposition candidate Ibrahim Boubacar Keita of the
Front for Democracy and the Republic, complained of massive
fraud.


"Voting was characterised by massive fraud, intimidation and
blackmail by an electoral machinery and an instrumentalised
administration with orders from candidate (Toure)," said Keita's
spokesman, Macky Diallo.


Observers from the Economic Community of West African States said
they believed Sunday's polling was overall "free, fair and
credible," despite "some insufficiencies noted here and there,"
according to the head of their mission, former Togolese prime
minister Koffi Sama.


He said a few instances of multiple voting, fraudulent voter
identities had been detected, and minors acting as electoral
agents, but that "marginally affected the efficiency and quality
of the voting process."


First official results were expected Monday, with full results
ready around Wednesday or Thursday.


Eight candidates vied for the top job in one of Africa's largest
but most impoverished countries, which has nonetheless been
praised for having made significant democratic strides in the
past 15 years.


Mali gained independence from France in 1960, and was led by
president Modibo Keita until he was overthrown in 1968 by Traore,
who ruled for 23 years.

