

Pope Benedict XVI on Monday expressed support for controversial
Italian Archbishop Angelo Bagnasco after he received a bullet and
his photograph stamped with a swastika in the mail, apparently
for his opposition to civil partnerships.


Vatican spokesman Federico Lombardi said the pope had made a
personal telephone call to Bagnasco, who is archbishop of Genoa
and president of the Italian bishops conference.


Italian President Giorgio Napolitano on Monday also voiced
support for Bagnasco, saying the threats were "cowardly and
inadmissible".


According to media reports Sunday, Bagnasco received the hate
mail at his office last week.


In a statement, Napolitano called the incident a "serious sign of
intolerance toward the Catholic Church" and called for a
respectful and constructive dialogue between the Church,
political leaders and civil society.


The 64-year-old archbishop had been put under police protection
in early April after hostile graffiti were daubed on a door of
Genoa's cathedral.


Prime Minister Romani Prodi, whose government is pushing
proposals to recognise civil partnerships between unmarried
couples, both heterosexual and homosexual, called Bagnasco on
Sunday.


Bagnasco maintains that a family can only be founded on a
marriage between a man and a woman and has appeared to compare
same-sex partnerships to incest or paedophilia.


The reports came ahead of a planned mass rally in Rome on May 12
in support of Roman Catholic family values which is being
organised by 21 Catholic groups.

