

A hurricane roars ashore in Rhode Island. A nuclear device goes
off in the Midwest. And terrorists begin wreaking havoc in
Alaska. What do you do?


The Pentagon and other US and Canadian agencies plan to answer
that question in a major exercise called Ardent Sentry-Northern
Edge 07 that began Monday and will play out over the next 18
days, involving thousands of US troops and state and local
officials.


The US Northern Command said it is "the largest and most complex
exercise" it has undertaken, combining natural and man-made
disasters to test preparedness plans on a national level.


"The intent obviously is to stress the system," said Mike
Kucharak, a spokesman for the Northern Command in Colorado
Springs, Colorado.


The peak of the exercise will come next week when a hurricane
bears into Rhode Island under one scenario, and an improvised
nuclear device is detonated in Indiana in another.


Interspersed with those crises will be simulated terrorist
actions in Alaska, some of which will take place at sea while
others will involve aircraft.


That will allow participants to explore what might happen if
terrorists tries to take advantage of catastrophic event,
Kucharak said. "How would that stress the system?"


The nuclear scenario postulates the detonation of a 10-kiloton
nuclear device, which will draw in state and local authorities,
and national guard units from three states. Some 2,000 active
duty military personnel will also take part.


Kucharak said the military will for deploy specialized forces to
handle the consequences of a simulated nuclear event.

