

The International Monetary Fund said Monday its cash crunch for
the next fiscal year would be worse than expected, with a deficit
of 165 million dollars.


The IMF, which has seen its finances deteriorate because of lower
levels of lending and advance repayments by some countries,
increased its deficit projection from an earlier estimate of 107
million dollars for the fiscal year starting May 1.


Without any changes, the deficit would increase to 224 million
dollars in the 2008 fiscal year, the IMF said.


"The income shortfall largely reflects a larger-than-expected
decline in IMF credit outstanding, owing to advance repayments by
some members during fiscal year 2007," the statement said.


In addition, returns from investments were lower than projected,
reflecting the low yields from bonds


The income shortfall "will be offset against the Fund's
reserves," the IMF said.


Despite the higher deficit, the IMF said it would not increase
its lending rate to countries in crisis.


The IMF, the lender of last resort to countries in financial
crisis, has seen its own finances strained as more nations emerge
from turmoil.


The decision of Argentina and Brazil and other big borrowers to
repay their IMF loans and decline the conditions set by the
organization has also led to a shortfall in incomes. Indonesia
and the Philippines are also among those repaying IMF loans ahead
of schedule.


The IMF still has some nine billion dollars in reserves of gold
and cash to keep it operating. But the organization has been
considering the sale of some of its gold to get cash for other
investments that could bring in additional income.


The IMF has more than 3,200 metric tons of gold as part of its
financial stockpile, but has resisted offloading any of it.

