

The euro fell slightly against the dollar on Monday after the
publication of US inflation data while the Turkish lira tumbled
owing to political turmoil.


In late European trading, the euro was trading at 1.3660 dollars
from 1.3650 dollars in New York late on Friday. The dollar stood
at 119.45 yen, compared with 119.59 on Friday.


The euro also hit a record against the Swiss at 1.6483 francs.


The dollar clawed back ground after the euro soared to an all-
time high of 1.3682 dollars on Friday, following news that the US
economy expanded at its slowest pace in four years in the first
quarter.


New figures on Monday showed that core inflation, as measured by
the core personal consumption expenditures price index that
excludes energy and foodstuffs, was unchanged in March on a
monthly basis after rising by 0.3 percent in February.


On a year-on-year basis, the core PCE deflator slowed to 2.1
percent from 2.4 percent in the year to February, raising
expectations that the Federal Reserve will begin to cut interest
rates.


"Easier core inflation is helping raise hopes that the Fed can
begin to focus more on flagging growth than on stubborn
inflation," said Jamie Coleman at Thomson IFR Markets.


Meanwhile, the Turkish lira showed a loss of 2.4 percent against
the euro in late European trading, after opening 4.0 percent
weaker, its biggest fall since a broad selloff hit emerging
country markets in May and June last year.


Tensions rose late Friday when, hours after a first, inconclusive
round of voting in parliament for a new president, the army
General Staff issued a stiff statement threatening to take action
if the government did not do more to preserve the republic's
secular tradition.


As calls for calm mounted, Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul, a
former Islamist and the sole candidate in the race to become
president, has ruled out withdrawing his bid, defying a threat by
the army to intervene.


"Gul has said he will remain the AKP's presidential candidate,"
said Commerzbank analyst Gavin Friend.


"Hence, the lira is likely to remain under pressure (against the
dollar) targeting 1.40 Turkish lira."


In Monday trading, the euro was changing hands at 1.3660 dollars,
against 1.3650 dollars late Friday, 163.12 yen (163.29), 0.6831
pounds (0.6833) and 1.682 Swiss francs (1.6455).


The dollar stood at 119.45 yen (119.59) and 1.2067 Swiss francs
(1.2055).


The pound was being traded at 1.9999 dollars (1.9974).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold was at 677
dollars per ounce, from 677.50 dollars late on Friday.

