

Europe's main stock markets rose on Monday as a raft of merger
and acquisition stories fuelled positive sentiment, but equities
slumped in Istanbul amid political turmoil, dealers said.


In London the FTSE 100 index gained 0.48 percent to close at
6,449.20 points, while in Paris the CAC 40 rose 0.49 percent to
finish at 5,960.04 points while in Frankfurt the Dax gained 0.42
percent to 7,408.87 points.


The Euro Stoxx 50 index of leading eurozone shares gained 0.26
percent to close at 4,394.65 percent.


On the currency market the euro was trading at 1.3660 dollars
against 1.3650 dollar on Friday.


In the United States, US stocks traded mixed early Monday as the
market paused following a record-setting series of sessions and
digested the latest economic news, which appeared to ease
inflation fears.


In early trading the Dow Jones Industrial Average drifted up 0.08
percent to 13,131.67 after the blue-chip index set three
consecutive record highs last week.


The Nasdaq composite lost 0.16 percent to 2,553.03 while the
broad-market Standard and Poor's 500 index edged up 0.09 percent
to 1,495.40.


The market, which has been on a run following better-than-
expected corporate earnings, digested news that US consumer
spending rose 0.3 percent in March and personal incomes increased
0.7 percent.


Asian stocks closed mostly lower on Monday as investors shrugged
off last week's record close on Wall Street and instead focussed
on slowing US economic data and monetary policy in China.


Hong Kong's key Hang Seng index slumped 1.01 percent to 20,318.98
points on worries China may announce further credit-tightening
measures, including an interest rate hike, after raising the
reserves requirement ratio of commercial banks, dealers said.
Tokyo was closed for a public holiday.


In Europe, the Turkish stockmarket fell heavily after a wild
weekend that saw Turkey plunged into a political crisis following
turmoil over presidential elections.


The crisis caused jitters on the Istanbul stock exchange, which
opened the week with a loss of 8.0 percent, but later recovered
to close 4.0 percent lower.


In London, Cable and Wireless saw its shares surge 2.43 percent
to 185.60 pence amid a media report that the telecommunications
operator was mulling a break-up of its British and international
businesses.


In Paris, shares in French energy group Suez rose 1.5 percent to
41.98 euros after receiving a broker upgrade from Citigroup, who
argued that the stock did not reflect the benefits of a merger
with Gaz de France.


In Frankfurt German stock market operator Deutsche Boerse said it
planned to bid 2.8 billion dollars (2.1 billion euros) for the
New York-based International Securities Exchange, the second-
biggest US options market.


Deutsche Boerse shares ended the session 1.38 percent higher at
172.55 euros after being suspended earlier.


Elsewhere in Europe, in Milan the SP/Mib rose 0.26 percent to
43,755 points, in Madrid the Ibex 35 lost 0.20 percent to
14,374.60 points, in Amsterdam the AEX rose 0.06 percent percent
to 530.81 points and the Belgian Bel 20 lost 0.62 percent to
4,614.76 points.


In Zurich the SMI index rose 0.09 percent to 9,428.27 points.

