

The United States Monday launched a facility in Pakistan aimed at
boosting security and speeding up the flow of goods.


The international container facility has been launched at Port
Qasim in the southern port city of Karachi, where US-bound goods
from Pakistan and Central Asia will be scanned before being
shipped to the United States.


"This facility is both a preventive tool in the global war on
terror that will make our borders safer and will also increase
the economic efficiency of Pakistani exports," US Charge
d'Affaires Peter W. Bodde told a ceremony.


"Port Qasim is one of only three locations in the world selected
for this testing phase, reflecting the close cooperation between
our two countries," he added.


As a joint effort with the Pakistan government, the facility
would test the feasibility of using scanning technology to
inspect every container bound for the US, he said.


"It will also increase the security of the international supply
chain for shippers utilising Port Qasim," he added.


Pakistan's ports and shipping minister Babar Ghauri said the new
system would boost trade and security between Pakistan and the
United States and another system would be installed at Karachi
port.


Pakistan, a key US ally in the global fight against terrorism,
has arrested more than 700 Al-Qaeda fugitives who fled to the
country after the fall of hardline Taliban regime in neighbouring
Afghanistan.


The South Asian country provided the US forces with its airbases
and intelligence to oust the Taliban regime after the September
2001 terrorist attacks in the United States.

