

Afghanistan would have achieved more if it had been given greater
control over the billions of dollars spent by the international
community on rebuilding the nation, a minister said Monday.


Nearly 13 billion dollars of international aid has been spent in
Afghanistan in a US-led reconstruction and security effort
following the 2001 toppling of the Taliban regime.


But the government and its partners have come in for heavy
criticism for a lack of progress in the war-shattered country
despite the money spent.


"We think the aid effectiveness is higher when we spend money
through the national budget," Finance Minister Anwar-Ul Haq Ahady
told a press conference at the end of a two-day donors'
conference in Kabul.


"If the government had control over this money, would we have had
better results? Yes! We would," he said.


He said only a minority of the aid money -- about 3.7 billion
dollars -- had been channelled through his government, and that
it was spent on civil service wages and some small-scale rural
reconstruction projects.


Ahady said the big sums spent directly by donor countries did not
have a significant impact on the domestic economy mainly because
the money was used to make costly foreign purchases.


Only about eight percent of the money spent by international
projects entered the local economy, but this soared to 80 percent
with an Afghan-run project, he said.


Last year some of the world's wealthiest nations pledged an
additional 20 billion dollars to a five-year reconstruction
blueprint for Afghanistan.


About half of this was expected to be spent through the
government, the minister said.


Despite the flood of aid dollars, Afghanistan remains poor.


Disquiet over the lack of major reconstruction, which is also
being hobbled in some areas by a Taliban insurgency, is fuelling
resentment towards the already fragile government.

