

Syria is "at the heart of events" in Iraq, Lebanon and the
Palestinian territories, President Bashar al-Assad said on
Monday, hailing the Iraqi "resistance" days ahead of a conference
on security in the war-torn country.


"To the east there is the resistance in Iraq, to the west there
is the resistance in Lebanon and to the south there is the
resistance of the Palestinian people," Assad was quoted as saying
by the official SANA agency.


"We, in Syria, are at the heart of all these events," he said
during a speech in eastern Syria.


Washington accuses the Syrian regime of allowing anti-US
insurgents to cross from Syria into Iraq and of supporting
terrorist groups in Lebanon and in the Palestinian territories.
Syria denies the accusations.


"Syria, the Arab region and the Middle East are going through a
dangerous period. Destructive colonial projects are seeking to
divide and reshape our region," Assad said.


"Now, we see these projects failing, particularly that of the
Greater Middle East," he said, referring to Washington's
controversial 2004 plan to bring greater democracy to the region.


Nevertheless, Assad said, "we should not underestimate our
enemies who are playing their last hand, that of sedition and
division.... Every Syrian citizen supports the Iraqi people who
are resisting" the American occupation.


The US withdrew its ambassador from Damascus after linking Syria
to the February 2005 assassination in Beirut of former Lebanese
prime minister Rafiq Hariri, an outspoken opponent of Syrian
dominance over Lebanon.


Syrian Foreign Minister Walid Muallem on Monday said he was ready
to meet US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice on the sidelines
of the Iraq security conference which starts on Thursday in Egypt
"if she wishes."

