

Almost half of counter-espionage efforts in Canada target Chinese
spies, the head of the Canadian Security Intelligence Service
told a senate committee Monday.


China ranked at the top of its list of more than a dozen
countries believed to be spying on Canada, hoping to glean
government, technological and corporate secrets, CSIS director
Jim Judd said.


"China is at the top of our list of counter-intelligence targets
and accounts for close to 50 percent of our counter-intelligence
program," he said, according to CSIS spokeswoman Barbara Campion.


The senate committee is studying whether Canada needs more robust
foreign intelligence gathering capabilities or even a separate
spy agency like the US CIA or Britain's MI6.


Judd's comments come as Foreign Affairs Minister Peter MacKay
visits Beijing to try to improve relations, strained since the
rise to power of Canada's Conservatives in January 2006, over the
jailing of a Canadian imam in China, stalled trade negotiations,
and Canada's failure to extradite Chinese fugitives.


Beijing also showed its displeasure at the Canadian parliament's
decision to give honorary citizenship to Tibetan religious leader
in exile, the Dalai Lama, in November.


Wednesday, Ottawa asked to take part in World Trade Organization
consultations on the application of intellectual property rights
in China, after the United States lodged a pair of complaints
against Beijing at the beginning of the month.


Canadian exports to China in 2006 reached 7.7 billion Canadian
dollars (6.9 billion US dollars) and imports were 34.5 billion
Canadian dollars (31 billion US dollars).

