

The dollar held steady near record lows against the euro in Asian
trade Tuesday after soft US inflation data fanned speculation
about a possible US Federal Reserve interest rate cut, dealers
said.


Trading was quiet as most Asian financial markets outside Japan
were closed Tuesday for the Labour Day holiday, they added.


The dollar edged up to 119.50 yen in Tokyo morning trade from
119.41 in New York late Monday.


The euro was flat at 1.3650 dollars after 1.3649, pausing just
below Friday's all-time best of 1.3682. The euro was also steady
at 163.10 yen.


"The dollar remains on a backfoot against major currencies
because weak inflation data supported the view that the Fed will
cut rates at least once this year," said Yoshifumi Suzuki, forex
dealer at Hachijuni Bank.


At the same time economic growth in the eurozone is robust,
making the dollar less attractive to buy, he added.


Even so, many market players expect the Fed to hold rates steady
at 5.25 percent at a meeting next week, a level where they have
been since last June.


The Fed's preferred inflation measure, the US core PCE deflator,
eased to a rate of 2.1 percent in March from 2.4 percent over the
year to February.


US consumer spending rose just 0.3 percent in March,
disappointing Wall Street analysts who had expected a rise of at
least 0.5 percent.


The euro meanwhile hovered close to its record high against the
dollar, underpinned by expectations that the European Central
Bank will notch up its key lending rate again soon, dealers said.


The single European currency could well top 1.37 dollars in the
coming days if US data, including Friday's jobs numbers, come in
weaker than expected, Suzuki said.


Other data due out this week include the Institute of Supply
Management indices on industrial and non-manufacturing activity,
as well as March pending home sales.

