

The UN Security Council on Monday unanimously approved a six-
month extension of the mandate of the UN force in south Sudan
(UNMIS) until next October 31.


The 15-member body also agreed to expedite the appointment of a
special UN representative for Sudan to succeed Dutchman Jan
Pronk, who was expelled by Khartoum on October 31 for criticising
the performance of the Sudanese army in war-battered Darfur.


UNMIS, which has a staff of around 12,000, was created in March
2005 to help maintain a tenuous peace between Sudan's government
and former southern rebels who in January of that year signed a
peace deal after 21 years of civil war.


The council resolution also urged parties to the Darfur peace
agreement reached in Abuja last May to respect their commitments
and those rebel groups which did not sign it to do so without
delay.


When UNMIS was established, the council had considered boosting
its strength to allow it to deploy some elements to the western
Sudanese region of Darfur.


But in the face of strenuous opposition from Khartoum to the
deployment of a non-African peacekeepers in Darfur, the United
Nations and the AU decided to deploy a joint peacekeeping force
in the region.


The international community has cranked up pressure on Sudan's
President Omar al-Beshir to win his consent to deploy a joint
force and Britain and the United States have been dangling the
threat of sanctions if Khartoum refuses.


Rallies in support of the beleaguered people of Darfur were held
in more than 35 capitals around the world on Sunday.


In Washington, several hundred people rallied outside the White
House to urge President George W. Bush to increase support for
the immediate deployment of UN peacekeepers in Darfur.


The conflict raging in Darfur has cost 200,000 lives and forced
two million people from their homes, according to the United
Nations, though Khartoum contests those estimates, saying 9,000
people have died.

