

Thousands of police and soldiers patrolled Indonesia's eastern
Ambon island Wednesday amid heavy security marking a key pro-
independence rebel anniversary.


Officers fanned out across the main city of Ambon and towns on
the island as an official said the region was calm, with only one
separatist flag raised.


April 25 marks the 57th anniversary of the claim by the outlawed
rebels to an independent South Maluku Republic, a territory
covering the eastern Maluku island chain.


"We have had only one case of an RMS (separatist) flag being
flown, and that was yesterday (Tuesday) in the Kudamati area,"
said Brigadier Kahar of the Ambon island police.


Traditionally, flags are hoisted on buildings and trees at night
and quickly lowered by police.


Kudamati is a known separatist stronghold.


Indonesian Army Chief Djoko Santoso said last week that the
military would be backing up Maluku police in safeguarding Ambon
for the anniversary.


Six thousand police and military personnel would guard several
strategic locations, particularly in Ambon city, the capital of
Malaku province, he said.


Two years ago, a pro-independence parade in the city led to
clashes and a week of violence that left more than 30 people dead
and more than 100 injured.


The separatist movement was crushed shortly after its declaration
in 1950 but the rebels regrouped following the fall of dictator
Suharto in 1998.


Separately, Ambon was ravaged by clashes pitting Muslims and
Christians which erupted in January 1999.


A peace pact in February 2002 mostly ended three years of strife
which left more than 5,000 people dead and hundreds of thousands
homeless.

