

Oil prices were marginally higher in Asian trade Wednesday ahead
of the US weekly energy inventory report, dealers said.


At 2:15 pm (0615 GMT) New York's main oil futures contract, light
sweet crude for delivery in June, was up two cents at 64.60
dollars a barrel from 64.58 dollars per barrel, after falling
1.31 dollars in US trade Tuesday.


Brent North Sea crude for June dele market is trying to absorb
what happened since it took a tumble last night," said CFC
Seymour analyst Steve Rowles in Hong Kong.


US home sales plummeted by 8.4 percent last month, the biggest
amount in 18 years, the National Association of Realtors' survey
showed Tuesday, stoking fears that further declines in home
prices will eventually undermine consumer spending, tipping the
economy downwards.


"The US economic data came out at about 10:00 pm last night and
in an hour the prices declined substantially," Rowles said.


The market was awaiting the weekly US Department of Energy report
on energy stockpiles due later Wednesday.


Rowles said the report was expected to show a fall of 1.3 million
barrels in crude oil stocks and 1.5 million barrels for gasoline
(petrol).


Traders are closely watching gasoline supplies, amid strong
gasoline demand and refineries coming out of maintenance, ahead
of the US peak holiday driving season in May.


Geopolitical risk was also supporting the oil market, analysts
said.


Scores of gunmen attacked a Chinese-run oil field in a remote
area of Ethiopia on Tuesday, killing nine Chinese and 65
Ethiopians in a raid claimed by a separatist rebel group.


"It did have an impact on the oil market but it appeared to be
more an isolated incident," said Rowles.


The market has also been nervous over lost production in Nigeria,
the world's sixth biggest exporter of crude, where traders have
expressed concern over further instability after last weekend's
disputed presidential elections.

