

Sri Lanka Wednesday vowed to destroy the Tamil Tigers' air
capability, a day after the guerrillas killed six soldiers and
wounded 13 in a bombing of a key military base.


The Sri Lankan air force said that the Liberation Tigers of Tamil
Eelam (LTTE) had used a single aircraft to carry out Tuesday's
raid against the Palaly military complex.


"Only one Tiger aircraft was flown in the operation (by the
Tigers), not two as mentioned by them, and it was airborne for
about eight minutes," air force spokesman Ajantha Silva told
reporters.


He said ground troops fired at the guerrilla aircraft and may
have inflicted some damage although they were unable to bring it
down.


"Our number one priority now is to eliminate the enemy aircraft,
to destroy their planes," Silva said.


In the Tigers' second air strike in two months, the LTTE said
they used two light aircraft to bomb Palaly, the largest military
facility in the Jaffna peninsula.


The rebels' latest air raid was a serious embarrassment for Sri
Lanka's air force, which announced last week that it had acquired
night-attack capability to knock out rebel aircraft.


The Tigers, whose separatist drive since 1972 has left over
60,000 dead, staged their first air strike against the Sri Lankan
forces on March 26 using what were believed to be two single-
engined, Czech-made Zlin Z-143 planes.


Sri Lanka's military operates a fleet of supersonic jets as well
as Mi-24 helicopter gunships, in addition to spy planes.


The first Tiger air attack saw the guerrillas drop six bombs on
the island's main military air base -- which shares a runway with
Sri Lanka's only international airport -- and get away
unchallenged.


Elsewhere, a road side bomb on Wednesday killed two paramilitary
policemen and injured four others, including three police
commandos, in the Ampara district, 350 kilometres (220 miles)
east of here.

