

The head of South Korea's doctors' association has announced
plans to quit after being secretly recorded boasting of his
success in bribing legislators.


Parliament's health committee on Tuesday summoned Jang Dong-Ik to
explain himself after the tape surfaced, newspapers reported
Wednesday.


Jang is head of the Korea Medical Association representing 95,000
doctors.


On the tape, he told local medical association officials that
every month he gave two million won (2,159 dollars) to each of
two parliamentarians from the conservative Grand National Party,
and the same sum to a legislator from the pro-government Uri
party.


He said he also paid 10 million won in cash to a lawmaker who
promised to draft a bill giving doctors a tax refund.


Jang also told of buying drinks for aides and funding golf
outings for health ministry officials to try to secure favourable
legislation.


Jang said he would formally announce his resignation next Monday.
But he told parliament's health committee that he had
"exaggerated the truth" in the conversation, which was taped on
March 31, to show doctors he was doing a good job lobbying for
them.


He and the medical association described the 10 million won
figure as a "political donation" and said the other payments were
for dinners with lawmakers and their aides.


Doctors are fighting a bill which would reform their profession
by easing restrictions on where doctors can work, and forcing
them to be more open with patients.


Some 40,000 staged a one-day strike and mass rally last month.


South Korea rated 5.1 on last year's world corruption preceptions
index prepared by Berlin-based Transparency International,
halfway along an index from zero, the most corrupt, to the
cleanest on 10.

