

At least 100 North Korean refugees have begun a hunger strike in
Bangkok to protest their delayed resettlement in South Korea,
according to the UN refugee agency.


Thailand was once host to hundreds of thousands of refugees who
fled wars and political unrest across Indochina. But most of the
camps that housed them have closed, the residents either
returning home or sent to a third country.


Following is an overview of the current refugee situation in
Thailand.


Myanmar: More than 95 percent of the 140,000 people in Thailand
officially classified as refugees by the UN High Commissioner for
Refugees are from Myanmar.


Most are ethnic minorities who fled fighting between ethnic rebel
groups and the military government. Many have lived in camps for
20 years.


Another 500,000 Myanmar workers are registered in Thailand, but
hundreds of thousands more economic migrants from Myanmar are
believed to be in the kingdom illegally.


Laos: Some 7,000 ethnic Hmong from Laos live in an informal
refugee camp in northeastern Thailand, according to Amnesty
International. Small groups of Hmong periodically cross the
border.


The last official Hmong refugee camp closed nearly two years ago,
when the last of the refugees were resettled in the United
States. The camp once housed some 14,000 people.


Cambodia: The UNHCR says only 70 Cambodian refugees were in
Thailand in 2004. Hundreds of thousands of Cambodian fled civil
war in their own country to live in camps in Thailand in the
1970s and 1980s, but the last of them was closed in the early
1990s.


North Korea: Thailand is an increasingly popular destination for
North Korean refugees seeking eventual resettlement in South
Korea. The number of North Koreans arrested for illegal entry in
Thailand in 2006 surged to more than 400, up from 50 the year
before.


To get to Thailand, they have to make a long and dangerous trek
across China, often with the aid of church groups.

