

Prosecutors raided the offices of South Korea's doctors'
association Wednesday after its chief was secretly recorded
boasting of his success in bribing legislators.


The Seoul Central Prosecutors' Office said it sent 10
investigators to the Korea Medical Association to search and
seize account books and computer files.


On Tuesday parliament's health committee summoned association
president Jang Dong-Ik to explain a tape recording, made on March
31 while he was addressing local officials of the group.


Jang told them that every month he gave two million won (2,159
dollars) to each of two parliamentarians from the conservative
Grand National Party, and the same sum to a legislator from the
pro-government Uri party.


He said he also paid 10 million won in cash to a lawmaker who had
promised to draft a bill giving doctors a tax refund.


Jang, who said he will formally announce his resignation next
Monday from the medical association, also told of buying drinks
for aides and funding golf outings for health ministry officials
to try and secure favourable legislation.


He told parliament's health committee he had "exaggerated the
truth" in the taped conversation, to show doctors he was doing a
good job representing their interests.


The Korean Medical Association represents 95,000 doctors.


Jang and the powerful lobby group described the 10 million won
figure as a "political donation" and said the other payments were
for dinners with lawmakers and their aides.


Doctors are fighting a bill which would reform the profession by
making their services more widely available and force them to be
more open with patients.


Some 40,000 medical professionals staged a one-day strike and
mass rally last month.


South Korea rated 5.1 on last year's world corruption preceptions
index prepared by Berlin-based Transparency International --
halfway along an index from zero, the most corrupt, to the
cleanest on 10.

