

An independent Scotland would have to choose between either
cutting public expenditure or raising taxes within a decade as
oil revenues drop off, the Financial Times said on Wednesday.


Citing its own analysis of available data, the business daily
said that current levels of oil prices and production would allow
Scotland to declare independence without having to cut spending,
and would mean the country would have lower government borrowing
than Britain by 2008.


The Scottish National Party (SNP), which is campaigning for an
independent Scotland, is currently leading most major opinion
polls ahead of May 3 elections and is expected to have the most
seats in the Scottish Parliament, though not a majority.


British Prime Minister Tony Blair's government in 1999 gave
Scotland devolved powers over health, education, housing and the
environment, but not defence, foreign and economic policy.


According to the FT's analysis, Scotland would have to choose
between fewer public services or higher taxes even if oil prices
stayed at current high levels, because production is expected to
fall.


The paper said that the UK Offshore Operators' Association
estimates that oil production will drop from 2007 levels of about
three million barrels a day to fewer than one million by 2020.


Were Scotland to garner the vast majority of revenues from North
Sea oil reserves, which the SNP believes it would be entitled to,
it would have a budget deficit of 1.2 percent of gross domestic
product in the current fiscal year, however.


That would be half the deficit Britain's finance minister is
predicting for the entire country.


Scotland would still be at the mercy of its oil reserves, though,
which the FT estimates would make up more than six percent of its
economy, and more than a fifth of its tax revenues.

