

Chinese share prices closed mixed Wednesday as Shanghai chalked
up yet another record finish while stocks in Shenzhen fell on
profit-taking, dealers said.


They said volumes continued very heavy but the inconclusive
showing probably reflected some position adjustment ahead of the
long Labour Day holiday next week.


The concern is that the government could take further measures
soon to try to slow the runaway economy, having failed to act
when very strong first quarter growth figures were released
earlier this month.


With the market sitting on gains of more than 215 percent since
January last year, there is plenty of profit to be taken and
investors may want to have their positions squared just in case
the government does act during the week long holiday.


Dealers said the banks were in focus in Shanghai as Bank of
Communications began taking retail subscriptions for its listing
in China's financial hub next month. Institutional investors
began subscribing to the initial public offering (IPO) Wednesday.


They said demand for stock in the Shanghai-based group, China's
fifth-largest lender, which aims to issue 4.5 billion A-shares,
might divert funds away from CITIC bank's IPO on Friday.


CITIC, ranked seventh in China, is expected to raise 5.4 billion
dollars in a dual Shanghai and Hong Kong offering that will mark
the world's biggest IPO so far this year.


The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index, which covers both A- and
B-shares, added 23.43 points or 0.63 percent at 3,743.96, a fresh
all-time high, on turnover of 175.45 billion yuan (22.70 billion
dollars).


The Shanghai A-share Index ended up 24.57 points or 0.63 percent
at 3,934.96 on turnover of 174.41 billion yuan while the Shenzhen
A-share Index finished down 4.48 points or 0.41 percent at
1,093.04 on turnover of 84.28 billion yuan.


The Shenzhen market often follows its own lead rather than that
of its bigger peer in Shanghai.


"Some investors chose to lock in gains before the long vacation
next week and it's completely normal to see some correction after
recent strong gains," said Wang Mingzhi, an analyst at GF
Securities.


"The start of subscriptions to the Bank of Communications'
A-share IPO also diverted some market liquidity," Shen Jun, an
analyst at Shangzhenglian Consulting, noted


Metal stocks were under pressure from weaker gold prices.
Shandong Gold-Mining was down 2.85 yuan or 5.01 percent at 54.06
and Zhongjin Gold lost 1.96 yuan or 4.0 percent at 47.0.


Machinery manufacturers ran into profit-taking, with Shenyang
Machine Tool down 0.90 yuan or 4.21 percent at 20.49.


Banks found support in China Minsheng Banking Corp after its
first-quarter net profit rose 46.6 percent to 1.105 billion yuan.
China Minsheng Banking was up 0.85 yuan or 6.75 percent at 13.45.


Huaxia Bank rose its 10 percent daily limit at 13.26 yuan and
Shenzhen Development Bank was up 1.18 yuan or 5.01 percent at
24.71.


The Shanghai B-share Index put on 1.74 points or 0.84 percent to
208.49 on turnover of 1.04 billion US dollars while the Shenzhen
B-share Index was down 0.19 points or 0.03 percent at 576.34 on
turnover of 744.03 million Hong Kong dollars (95.25 million US
dollars).

