

More than 700,000 Iraqis fled their homes amid the sectarian
violence that surged after the bombing of a Shiite shrine in
2006, the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq said
Wednesday.


In its January to March 2007 report on the human rights situation
in Iraq, UNAMI said these people were in addition to the 1.2
million displaced before last year's demolition of the revered
shrine in the town of Samarra.


"Some 117,901 families or estimated 707,000 persons have been
forced to flee their homes due to sectarian violence since the
bombing of the Al-Askari shrine in Samarra on February 22, 2006,"
UNAMI said.


Sunni Al-Qaeda militants bombed the shrine, triggering nationwide
sectarian bloodshed that continues to this day.


The report said that, with 120,000 internal refugees, Baghdad has
borne the brunt of the chaos.


"Many of these were displaced from within Baghdad, moving to more
ethnically homogenous and safer areas, while their houses were
either given to or were occupied by other displaced families,"
the report said.


Nearly 87 percent of the displaced people are seeking refuge in
the centre and south of the country, it added.


UNAMI said people primarly fled due to direct threats to their
lives because of their sect or religion, generalised violence or
forced displacement.


Baghdad has become the epicentre of sectarian bloodshed, with
armed gangs from the Sunni and Shiite communities killing,
torturing and driving people from rival sects out of their homes.


To quell the daily bloodletting in the capital, around 80,000 US
and Iraqi troops are partrolling the streets.


The report further said that up to eight million Iraqis were in
"vulnerable" position and needed immediate assistance.


"A total of 1.9 million are internally displaced and four million
are estimated to be acutely vulnerable due to food insecurity,"
it said adding the worst affected governorates are from central
and southern parts of Iraq.

