

The United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq criticised the
Iraqi government Wednesday for blocking access to casualty
figures from the war-torn country over the past three months.


UNAMI, in its quarterly report on the human rights situation in
Iraq, said Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki's government had stopped
providing the figures and had accused the United Nations of
exaggerating figures in a earlier report.


In a report on January 16, UNAMI said more than 34,400 people had
died in the daily acts of violence across the country in 2006.


"The Prime Minister's Office told UNAMI that the mortality
figures contained in the report were exaggerated, although they
were in fact figures compiled and provided by a government
ministry," UNAMI said on Wednesday.


It said the figures released in January were based on information
provided by Iraq's various ministries, including the health
ministry.


"It was a matter a regret that the Iraqi government did not
provide UNAMI with access to the ministry of health's overall
mortality figures for the reporting period (January 1 to March
31)," the UN agency said:


"UNAMI emphasises again the utmost need for the Iraqi government
to operate in a transparent manner and does not accept the
government's suggestion that UNAMI used the mortality figures in
an inappropriate fashion."


UNAMI said repeated efforts to procure the mortality figures had
failed.


Iraqi and US officials claim that the civilian death toll from
Iraq's sectarian war has declained since the launch on February
14 of the Baghdad security plan, but refuse to release figures to
prove this.

