

A North Korean team was set to arrive Wednesday in Yangon to
discuss resuming diplomatic ties among two of the world's most
secretive regimes, diplomats said.


"Both sides want to reach an agreement to resume diplomatic tie.
The North Korean delegation will arrive this afternoon. They will
stay here for three days," an Asian diplomat in Yangon told AFP
on condition of anonymity.


The visit, led by deputy foreign minister Kim Yong-Il, has
sparked speculation among Yangon's diplomatic community that the
reclusive Stalinist state could become the first to open an
embassy in Naypyidaw, the military government's new
administrative capital in central Myanmar.


"We have to wait and see whether they have a discussion about
opening an official embassy," the diplomat said.


"The foreign minister will meet them first. If the meeting is
positive, a senior military leader would also meet them," he
said.


According to diplomats, the North Korean delegation will spend a
night in Yangon and then head to Naypyidaw on Thursday.


However, Myanmar foreign ministry officials declined to comment
on the visit.


"We can't answer any questions because we don't know anything
about it," a senior official said.


Military-run Myanmar and communist North Korea severed ties after
the North staged a deadly bomb attack on a South Korean
government delegation at the Martyr's Mausoleum, near the famous
Shwedagon pagoda, in Yangon in 1983.


The attack aimed to assassinate South Korea's then-president Chun
Doo Hwan who was on an official visit to Yangon.


Chun survived the blast but it killed 17 of his entourage,
including four cabinet ministers, while 17 others were wounded.
Four Myanmar officials also died in the blast.

