

The SuperSonics, stung by a disappointing National Basketball
Association season marked by uncertainty over their future in
Seattle, sacked coach Bob Hill on Tuesday.


The decision ended Hill's disappointing 16-month tenure with the
team, which also stripped Rick Sund of his general manager
duties.


"Bob Hill and Rick Sund are fine individuals of excellent
personal character and are basketball men through and through,"
Sonics chairman Clay Bennett said.


"They were both extremely helpful to us during this challenging
year of transition. We are sincerely appreciative to them for
their service and we wish them only the very best."


In Hill's lone full campaign as coach, Seattle posted a 31-51
record, its worst showing since the 1985-86 season.


Hill made his way back to the bench after a nine-year absence as
an assistant before replacing Bob Weiss on January 3, 2006.


Hill went 53-81 with the Sonics and owns a 310-293 record in
parts of nine seasons with Seattle, San Antonio, Indiana and New
York. He guided the Spurs to consecutive Midwest Division titles
in 1995 and 1996.


Bennet, the Sonics' majority owner, and vice chairman Lenny
Wilkens will lead the search to fill both positions.


"While there is uncertainty as to the future physical location of
our franchise, our commitment to creating a culture of
competitive excellence for this organization is unwavering,"
Bennet said. "We absolutely aspire to win championships."


The Sonics, who completed their 40th season in the US Pacific
Northwest, had been seeking public financing of a new 500
million-dollar arena.


After lawmakers voted not to consider such a measure, Bennett
said earlier this month that the club might try tomove before its
lease expires in 2010.


Bennett's 350 million-dollar purchase of the Sonics was not
finalized by the NBA until last November, and the deal reportedly
includes an out clause that allows Bennett to relocate unless a
new arena deal is in place by the end of next October.

