

China plans new heavier fines for illegal developments as it
seeks to better control a property sector beset by land disputes
and unbridled investment, state media said Wednesday.


Developments that have no planning permits or deviate from
approved plans will be stopped and the builders fined between
five to 10 percent of the project's budget, the China Daily
reported, citing a new draft law.


If developers refuse to halt construction, local governments will
have the power to close down the building site and demolish the
partly-built development, the report said.


The draft law was discussed for the first time on Tuesday at the
Standing Committee of the National People's Congress, or
legislature, according to the report.


The move seemed to be another measure by the central government
to rein in surging investment in the real estate sector, which
soared 26.9 percent from a year earlier in the first quarter of
this year.


Minister of Construction Wang Guangtao accused local governments
of blindly chasing urban development and approving "vanity
projects", according to the paper.


"Misuse of land is serious in some rural areas, and current rural
planning is inadequate and fails to meet the needs of farmers,"
Wang said.


An overwhelming number of protests in China are triggered by
farmers and city residents who have seen their land or property
illegally seized by local officials, the central government has
said previously.


According to the latest figures from the Ministry of Public
Security, there were 87,000 protests, officially termed "mass
incidents", reported in 2005, up 6.6 percent on 2004 and 50
percent on 2003.

