

Ben Gordon and Luol Deng delivered a one-two punch for Chicago
Tuesday as the Bulls beat National Basketball Association
champions Miami to build their lead in their Eastern Conference
playoff series.


Gordon scored all 27 of his points in the first three quarters
and Sudan-born Briton Deng added 14 of his 26 in the final period
as the Bulls defeated the Heat 107-89 to take a two-games-to-none
lead in the best-of-seven first round series.


In Toronto, the Raptors defeated the New Jersey Nets 89-83 to
knot their series at one game each.


Chicago's Kirk Hinrich collected 14 points and eight assists as
the Bulls continued to dictate the pace and maximize their
talented perimeter scorers.


Chicago shot 55 percent from the field including 11-of-17
3-pointers.


In Saturday's series opener, Deng collected 33 points and eight
rebounds and Gordon added 24 and a playoff career-high 11 assists
for Chicago in a 96-91 victory.


On Tuesday, they combined to shoot 22-of-38, including 5-of-8
from 3-point range.


Gordon dominated the first three quarters with his smooth jump
shot, staking the Bulls to an 85-71 lead entering the fourth
period.


But after Miami scored on its first six possessions of the final
period, Deng shot 6-of-7 in the final 12 minutes to secure the
victory.


Ben Wallace, who grabbed 14 rebounds in his first playoff game
with the Bulls on Saturday, snatched just six in 38 minutes. He
looked to be injured in the final minutes, hobbling to the bench
after coach Scott Skiles called for a substitution.


Heat Superstars Dwyane Wade and Shaquille O'Neal combined for 38
points and 14 turnovers - looking sloppy and out of sync.


Game three will be in Miami on Friday. That's the same day that
the Raptors and Nets will resume in New Jersey.


Chris Bosh made sure the Raptors won't arrive in New Jersey in a
two-game hole.


Bosh scored 25 points and grabbed 13 rebounds, Anthony Parker had
26 points and T.J. Ford added seven of his 13 in the final 2:45
as Atlantic Division champion Toronto gained a much-needed split
at home.


Vince Carter led the Nets with 19 points and 11 boards but again
struggled against his former team, making just 8-of-24 shots.


In the series opener Carter was 5-of-19 and booed repeatedly by
the crowd at Air Canada Centre.


Ford buried a huge 3-pointer to give the Raptors a 79-78 lead
with 2:45 left, but New Jersey's Richard Jefferson, who was held
scoreless in the opening half, answered with a finger roll and
nailed a 3-pointer to put the Nets in front 83-82 with 46 seconds
left.


However, Ford, an 82 percent free throw shooter, hit four
straight from the line to put the Raptors up 86-83 with 15
seconds left.


Bostjan Nachbar, who provided a huge boost off the bench with 17
points, missed a tying 3-point attempt from the corner and Parker
sealed it with one free throw with 8.1 seconds left.


Jason Kidd had 14 points, 11 rebounds and seven assists for the
Nets.

