

England's 1966 World Cup winner Alan Ball died from a heart
attack overnight, his family said Wednesday. He was 61.


At 21, Ball was the youngest member of England's only World Cup
winning team. He is the second member of the side that beat West
Germany 4-2 in the final to die. Captain Bobby Moore died of
cancer in 1993.


Ball played 72 times for his country between 1965 and 1975,
scoring eight goals.


The former Arsenal and Everton midfielder also forged a career in
management, taking charge at Southampton, Manchester City and
Portsmouth.


Ball's son Jimmy told Britain's domestic Press Association news
agency that his father had watched on television as Manchester
United beat visitors AC Milan 3-2 in Tuesday's Champions League
semi-final first leg.


"I was talking to him last night just after the football and he
was in great form. We were talking about (Paul) Scholes's pass,"
he said from his father's home in Southampton on the southern
English coast,


"And then I got a phone call in the middle of the night. It's
unbelievable and very, very sad."


Ball cut a distinctive with his diminutive stature, high-pitched
voice and flame-red hair.


In the 1966 World Cup final, his cross set up striker Geoff
Hurst's famously controversial goal that put England 3-2 ahead in
extra time.


Hurst said he and fellow surviving players from the team were
"all totally devastated."


Hurst said he contacted other members of the World Cup-winning
side Wednesday.


"He was the youngest member of the team and man of the match in
the 1966 World Cup final," said the former West Ham United
hitman.


"Socially he was always a good laugh and the 1966 team mixed a
lot after then."


Alan Mullery, who played for England alongside Ball in the 1970
World Cup in Mexico, said Ball's death was "shocking news."


"He was such a bouncy and lively, young 61-year-old," he told Sky
News television.


"He was the life and soul of everything. He was a loveable bouncy
character, he had a heart of gold. He lived football.


"He loved playing for his country. It is such a shock. At 61, he
was a fit little fellow."

