

At least 37,641 people were being held in US and Iraqi run
prisons across the country as of end of March, the United Nations
Assistance Mission for Iraq said, in its latest report released
Wednesday.


Citing figures from the ministry of human rights, UNAMI said that
of these about 3,000 have been detained since the Baghdad
security crackdown began on February 14 in a bid to quell daily
bloodshed in the Iraqi capital.


In its quarterly report on human rights situation in Iraq, UNAMI
said the US-led coalition forces are holding 17,898 people
detained in operations across the country since the March 2003
invasion.


The Iraqi ministry of justice holds 9,965, the ministry of
interior has 5,573, the ministry of defence 1,525, the ministry
of labour and social affairs 502, while another 2,178 were
detained by authorities in Kurdistan.


"By late February, the Iraqi government announced that hundreds
of people had been arrested since the launch of the Baghdad
Security Plan, and by end of March over 3,000 were in detention,"
the report said.


Since February 14, Iraqi and US militaries have deployed 80,000
troops in Baghdad as part of Operation Fardh al-Qanoon (Imposing
Law).


Expressing concern over the detainees' human rights, the report
said the plan's new emergency regulations contained no explicit
measures guaranteeing due process rights to the detainees.


"Rather, they authorised arrests without warrants and the
interrogation of suspects without placing a time limit on how
long they could be held in pre- trial detention," the report
said.


UNAMI also criticised US-led coalition forces for their practice
of "indefinite internment of detainees", thousands of whom have
been held for long periods without charge or trial.

