

Ethiopia on Wednesday accused arch-foe Eritrea of supporting
rebels who attacked a Chinese-run oil field in a remote area of
Ethiopia in which 65 Ethiopians and nine Chinese workers died.


The information ministry said Eritrea was behind the dawn raid on
Tuesday by the Ogaden National Liberation Front -- fighting for
the independence of ethnic Somalis in Ethiopia's eastern Ogaden
region -- in which up to seven Chinese workers were also
kidnapped.


"The perpetrator of the terrorist attack ... is the self-styled
Ogaden National Liberation Front, a terrorist wing which is part
of the front of destruction led by the Eritrean government," the
information ministry said in a statement.


"Hand-in-glove with the Eritrean Government, which hates to see
Ethiopia's development, the terrorist forces in the region have
acted out this horrendous act of terror," the statement said.


Addis Ababa often accuses Eritrea of backing Ethiopian separatist
groups alleged to have carried out a series of bombs attacks in
Addis Ababa in recent years and of attacking civilian positions
in southern and eastern Ethiopia.


The two nations, still at odds over an unresolved border dispute,
fought a bloody 1998-2000 over the precise path of their
frontier.


The ONLF, formed in 1984, says that the Ogaden people have been
marginalised and brutalised by Ethiopia.


It claimed responsibility for Tuesday's attack in a statement on
its website in which it said it had completely destroyed the oil
facility.


The raid was the first on an Ethiopian oil field since the ONLF
issued a threat to foreign companies operating in the eastern
region one year ago.

