

Shelling and tank fire rattled the Somali capital Wednesday as
fighting between government-backed Ethiopian forces and Islamist
guerrillas entered its second week, with hundreds already killed.


After a relatively quiet night, residents said Ethiopian tanks
had rumbled through northern Mogadishu, firing shells in a bid to
wipe out determined Islamist and clan fighters who have
frustrated the transitional government's efforts to exert its
control.


The insurgents, often shifting their defence positions, responded
with machinegun fire and mortar shells.


"Heavy fighting has resumed," said Hussein Bashir, a resident of
Jamhuriha area in northern Mogadishu.


"Two people were wounded when a mortar hit their houses, but we
could not take them to hospital because stray bullets are flying
all over the place."


Kulow Hassan, a pharmacist in Tawfiq area, said: "We have lost
hope because there is no sign of a truce here. Nobody bothers to
tell the fighters that the battles are useless."


Human rights workers monitoring the death toll said Tuesday that
at least 321 people, mostly civilians and insurgents, had been
killed in the latest clashes that come around three weeks after
similar battles claimed at least 1,000 lives.


Dozens of rotting corpses lay abandoned in the capital's streets
and in residential areas and Mogadishu doctors appealed for
supplies to help save the wounded.


With no truce in sight, residents continued their exodus out of
the city to join thousands in makeshift camps outside the city.


The UN refugee agency said last week that more than 321,000
people had fled the seaside capital since February 1, but elders
told AFP the figure could now be more than 400,000.


On Tuesday, a suicide bomber blew up a truck in an Ethiopian camp
in Afgoye, west of the capital, wounding two Somali soldiers.
Hours later, another car also exploded outside a southern
Mogadishu hotel, killing seven people.

