

Japanese share prices closed down 1.24 percent Wednesday as
investors fretted over the health of the US economy and the start
of the domestic corporate results season, dealers said.


They said investors were also hesitant to take large positions
before the Golden Week national holidays begin this weekend.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
fell 215.61 points to 17,236.16.


The broader Topix index of all first-section shares fell 18.82
points or 1.10 percent to 1,687.34, dropping below the symbolic
1,700-point mark.


Decliners overwhelmed gainers 1,194 to 428, with 108 stocks flat.


Volume was 1.81 billion shares, down slightly from 1.82 billion
Tuesday.


"Weak US economic data overnight seems to have given rise to the
view that confidence in the US economy has not recovered much,"
said Kazuhiro Takahashi, equity general manager at Daiwa
Securities SMBC.


However, he said there was no need for investors to fret too much
about the health of the US economy after the existing home sales
figures.


More economic indicators due out later Wednesday, including March
new home sales and durable goods orders, will provide further
leads on the US outlook.


"The conservative earnings forecasts of some Japanese
corporations for this fiscal year also weighed on sentiment,"
Takahashi said.


He said the market was waiting to see more results this week and
after Golden Week to assess the earnings growth of Japanese
firms.


Investors were waiting for a batch of Japanese economic data on
Friday, including March consumer prices and the Bank of Japan's
latest report on the outlook for economic activity and prices.


Minicar maker Daihatsu Motor was sharply lower, falling 46 yen or
4.5 percent to 982, after the unit of Toyota Motor Corp said it
expects earnings to decline in the current fiscal year to March
2008 due to increased spending and sluggish domestic demand.


Hino Motors fell 14 yen or 2.2 percent to 623 after the
truckmaker announced lackluster earnings guidance for the year to
March 2008.


Toyota Motor Corp, which also holds a majority stake in Hino, was
down 140 yen or 1.9 percent at 7,230.


Other automakers were lower. Nissan Motor lost 35 yen or 2.8
percent to 1,193, Isuzu Motors shed 12 or 1.9 percent to 620 and
Suzuki Motor dropped 100 or 2.9 percent to 3,280.


Elpida Memory rose 150 yen or 3.1 percent to 4,980 after
reporting a more than five-fold increase in net profits in the
three months to March.


Canon added 50 yen or 0.7 percent to 6,710 after the high-tech
giant reported a 21 percent rise in net profit in the first
quarter of this year and increased its forecasts for 2007 as a
whole.


Yahoo Japan jumped 4,000 yen or 10.9 percent to 40,750 after the
company said that it made a record net profit in the fiscal
fourth quarter


On the foreign exchange market, the dollar declined to 118.42 yen
in Tokyo afternoon trade from 118.55 in New York late Tuesday.


The euro slipped to 1.3630 dollars from 1.3640 and to 161.41 yen
from 161.72.

