

Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, known for his hard line on
North Korea, says leader Kim Jong-Il is a rational player bent on
bringing the United States to negotiate.


Abe dismissed talk that the "Dear Leader", who enjoys an
elaborate cult of personality, was crazy.


"In a sense, Chairman Kim Jong-Il is a man who thinks
rationally," Abe said in an interview with CNN to be broadcast
ahead of a visit to the United States starting Thursday.


"It is true that North Korea is heading in an obviously wrong
direction," Abe said, as quoted by a government official.


"However having seen its diplomacy so far, I think it is based on
one theory -- which is that the country is seeking power to get
the United States to the negotiating table," Abe said.


"In order to achieve that goal, they carried out the nuclear
test," he said. Abe, who built his career taking a tough line on
Pyongyang, slapped sweeping sanctions on the impoverished state
after its tests of missiles and an atomic bomb last year.


He has refused to fund a US-backed six-nation deal reached in
February that provides aid to North Korea in exchange for
disarmament.


Abe says he will not provide any aid until North Korea resolves
an emotionally charged row over its kidnappings of Japanese
citizens in the 1970s and 1980s.


In 2002, Abe accompanied his predecessor Junichiro Koizumi as an
adviser on a landmark visit to Pyongyang, where Kim admitted his
regime had abducted Japanese to train its spies.


Both Koizumi and former US secretary of state Madeleine Albright,
who visited Pyongyang in 2000, faced accusations of being too
cozy with Kim Jong-Il.


Koizumi, after a second summit with Kim in 2004, said: "Many
people may have a dreadful, spooky image of him as a dictator.
But I found him to be a person who is gentle, a cheerful
individual who cracks jokes and is quick-witted."

