

Intelligence has nothing to do with wealth, according to a US
study published Tuesday which found that people with below
average smarts were just as wealthy as those with higher IQ
scores.


"People don't become rich because they are smart," said Jay
Zagorsky, research scientist at Ohio State University whose study
appears in the Journal Intelligence.


The US Bureau of Labor Statistics survey included 7,403 Americans
who have been interviewed repeatedly since 1979. Based on 2004
answers, people who are now in their mid-40s showed no link
between brain- and earning-power.


"Your IQ has really no relationship to your wealth. And being
very smart does not protect you from getting into financial
difficulty," Zagorsky said.


The study confirmed previous research which has shown that
smarter people tend to earn more money, but pointed out there is
a difference between high pay and overall wealth.


"The average income difference between a person with an IQ score
in the normal range (100) and someone in the top two percent of
society (130) is currently between 6,000 and 18,500 dollars per
year," it said.


"But when it came to total wealth and the likelihood of financial
difficulties, people of below average and average intelligence
did just fine when compared to the super-intelligent."


An irregular pattern of total wealth as well as financial
distress levels -- such as maxed out credit cards, bankruptcy and
missing bill payments -- emerged among the various degrees of
intelligence, the study said.


The study measured intelligence based on scores from the US Armed
Services Qualification Test, a general aptitude test used by the
Department of Defense.

