

The World Health Organisation said Wednesday that six developing
countries would receive financial grants to produce flu vaccine
locally in order to bolster global protection against a
threatened pandemic.


They include three of the countries that have suffered the most
from outbreaks of the virulent H5N1 strain of bird flu --
Indonesia, Thailand and Vietnam -- as well as Brazil, India and
Mexico.


Each will receive 2.5 million dollars immediately to begin the
process of buying the necessary technology, the WHO said in a
statement. The funding is being provided by Japan and the United
States.


"It is imperative that the global community works collectively to
ensure more equitable access to a vaccine and other health
measures in the event of an influenza pandemic," said David
Heymann, the WHO's assistant director general for communicable
diseases.


The announcement came as the WHO began a two-day meeting of
experts to discuss vaccine supplies and manufacturing capacity in
poor countries, which are regarded as potentially weak links in
preparations against a pandemic.


Health experts have estimated that there is a shortage in vaccine
production capacity equivalent to several billion doses.


"The current global influenza manufacturing capacity is far short
of the capacity needed to protect the world's six billion people
in the event of an influenza pandemic," said US Health Secretary
Mike Leavitt.


The deadly H5N1 strain of bird flu has killed at least 172 people
since 2003, mainly in Southeast Asia, according to the UN health
agency.


Scientists fear the virus, which was first reported in humans in
Hong Kong in 1997, could mutate into a more infectious form and
potentially spark a flu pandemic killing millions worldwide.

