

The return of Taiwanese pitcher Chien-Ming Wang and a home run
from Japan's Hideki Matsui wasn't enough for the New York Yankees
against Tampa Bay on Tuesday.


Carl Crawford hit a grand slam and had four hits as the Devil
Rays notched a 6-4 victory over the Yankees to sweep the two-game
series.


Despite the return of 2006 Cy Young Award runner-up Wang from the
disabled list, the Yankees could not find an answer for Crawford.


With the Devil Rays trailing, 3-2, in the seventh, the three-time
American League stolen base champion sent a flat slider off
reliever Mike Myers (0-1) over the right field fence to unload
the bases and give Tampa Bay a 6-3 advantage.


Crawford was the only hitter Myers faced.


Wang, who was making his first start of the season since
returning from a a strained right hamstring, allowed two runs and
nine hits with no walks and three strikeouts over 6 1/3 innings.


Juan Salas, who came in to relieve Tampa Bay starter Scott
Kazmir, recorded the final out of the seventh to pick up the win.
Jae Kuk Ryu and Shawn Camp allowed a run in the eighth before Al
Reyes pitched a perfect ninth for his seventh save in as many
chances. Kazmir allowed three runs - one earned - and five hits
in 6 2/3 innings.


Matsui homered in his first at-bat to start the scoring for the
Yankees and Alex Rodriguez went 0-for-3 with a walk in his
pursuit to break the records for the most homers and RBI in
April.


His 14 home runs tie the major league record and his 34 RBI are
one behind the pace that Juan Gonzalez set while with Texas in
1998.


The Yankees also got a scare when shortstop Derek Jeter left the
game in the bottom of the first inning with an apparent bruised
left thigh after he was hit by a pitch from Kazmir.

