

Prime Minister Ehud Olmert will meet defence officials on
Wednesday morning to weigh Israel's response to a Palestinian
rocket attack, amid growing calls for tough military action.


Olmert will meet in his Jerusalem office with Defence Minister
Amir Peretz and the army's top brass "to discuss Israel's
reaction to the Hamas attack," a senior government official told
AFP.


"We feel today free to do things that we avoided doing several
months ago. Anyone who wants to try us, will get what he
deserves," Deputy Defence Minister Ephraim Sneh told public
radio.


"We are not interested in escalation. We want to do whatever is
necessary to lower the level of terror" in the Gaza Strip, he
said.


On Tuesday, the armed wing of the Palestinian movement Hamas
declared a five- month truce with Israel over after claiming to
have fired scores of rockets into the Jewish state on its
Independence Day.


The Islamic group said it was abandoning the November 26 truce
after Israeli raids killed nine Palestinians at the weekend.


Although less than 10 projectiles fell within Israel, causing no
damage, security sources said they suspected the operation could
have been intended as a diversionary tactic aimed at capturing
Israeli soldiers, as on June 25 when a conscripted corporal was
seized in a cross-border raid.


"Israel views this morning's incident as extremely serious and
will take action against those involved at an adequate time and
way, and with no compromises," a senior security official told
AFP Tuesday.


Israel has declared several times in recent months that it would
not allow Hamas and other armed factions to strengthen in the
Gaza Strip, as intelligence sources warned that militants were
using the calm to stockpile arms.

