

The dollar hovered close to its record low against the euro in
Asian trade Wednesday after weak US housing data stoked worries
about the state of the world's largest economy, dealers said.


They said that dollar also eased back against the yen as the
market braced for a raft of US and Japanese economic data later
this week.


The dollar declined to 118.42 yen in Tokyo afternoon trade from
118.55 in New York late Tuesday.


The euro slipped to 1.3630 dollars from 1.3640 -- just shy of its
record high of 1.3666 dollars struck in December 2004. The single
European currency fell to 161.41 yen from 161.72.


"Although individual corporate earnings in the United States are
positive and stock markets are robust, macroeconomic indicators
remain weak," said Kazuhiko Shibata, manager of Dresdner Bank's
Tokyo branch.


Resilient economic growth in the eurozone and expectations of
another interest rate hike there by the European Central Bank in
June have therefore led investors to ditch the dollar for the
euro, he added.


On Tuesday, figures showed existing US homes sales fell by their
biggest margin in over 18 years in March, tumbling 8.4 percent to
an annualised pace of 6.12 million. Most economists had expected
sales would drop to 6.45 million units from 6.68 million in
February.


The dollar was also depressed by a downturn in the Conference
Board's consumer confidence index to 104.0 from 108.2 in March,
marking a second straight monthly decline.


The figures fuelled jitters ahead of this Friday's key US gross
domestic product (GDP) figures for the first quarter.


Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi UFJ forex analyst Osamu Takashima said
the dollar looked likely to underperform its rival currencies as
interest rate differentials are poised to narrow, given recent
weak data.


"If the European Central Bank continues to show strong resolve to
contain inflation risks by hiking rates, the euro may reach the
1.38 dollar level over the next few months," he added.


Japanese players were also waiting for a slew of domestic news
Friday including consumer prices and the Bank of Japan's economic
outlook report that could prove pivotal to when the central bank
next raises interest rates.


The dollar eased to 33.196 Taiwan dollars from 33.198, to 926.30
South Korean won from 926.75 and to 47.51 Philippine pesos from
47.68.


It fell to 9,087 Indonesian rupiah from 9,095, to 1.5118
Singapore dollars from 1.5154 and to 32.32 Thai baht from 32.58.

