

Japan's Sharp Corp. on Wednesday reported a fourth consecutive
year of record profits thanks to fast-growing sales of flat-
screen televisions and mobile phones.


Sharp, a major liquid crystal display (LCD) panel maker, said its
net profit rose 14.7 percent to 101.72 billion yen (859 million
dollars) in the year to March on record revenue of 3.13 trillion
yen, up 11.8 percent.


Operating profit jumped 13.9 percent to 186.53 billion yen, the
Osaka-based firm said in a statement.


Sharp is riding high on a boom in demand for flat televisions as
consumers swap their old tube sets for ultra thin new ones.


"Sales of large-sized liquid crystal colour televisions and 'One-
Seg' mobile telephones with flat screens increased, contributing
to the overall sales increase," said Sharp senior vice president
Hiroshi Saji.


The company is trying to ramp up its sales of flat-screen
products overseas, aiming for a 15 percent share in the US market
this fiscal year, up from 13 percent the previous year.


"The use of large flat-screen televisions is increasing overseas.
In the United States an increasing number of hotels are using
Sharp's Aquos televisions," said Saji.


Sales of audio-visual and communication equipment jumped 26.6
percent in value in the year and are expected to rise a further
16.6 percent this year.


The company forecast a fifth record annual performance,
projecting a 3.2 percent rise in net profit for the year to March
2008 to 105 billion yen.


It expects operating profit to grow 1.9 percent to 190 billion
yen, with revenue up 8.7 percent to 3.4 trillion yen.


In January, Sharp announced plans to boost its output of flat
screen televisions with new production lines in Japan and Mexico
in response to flourishing demand for LCDs, while also expanding
output in Poland.


"By the time of the Christmas sales war, we will be able to offer
high-quality LCDs in a timely fashion to the market," Saji said.

