

Khalil Greene, Adrian Gonzalez and the San Diego Padres rained on
Randy Johnson's Arizona Diamondbacks homecoming parade.


Greene and Gonzalez combined to go 7-for-7 and drove in seven
runs as the Padres beat the Diamondbacks 10-5 on Tuesday as
Johnson returned to Arizona, where he won four of his five Cy
Young Awards and a World Series title in 2001.


The lanky lefthander was re-acquired in a January trade after two
tumultuous seasons with the New York Yankees.


The 43-year-old Johnson, who had back surgery in October, had
three rehabilitation starts in the minors before being cleared to
join the Diamondbacks, where he played from 1999-2002.


Johnson showed flashes of brilliance, but was hurt by one big
inning. He struck out seven but threw 97 pitches in five innings,
allowing six runs and six hits.


After striking out four of the first five batters he faced,
Johnson ran into trouble in the third when he walked Jose Cruz
Jr. with one out. One batter later he allowed a two-run blast to
Gonzalez to make the score 2-2. The home run was just the third
homer Johnson has given up to lefthanded hitters in the last two
years.


Johnson faltered in the fifth, when he allowed four runs, a solo
homer to Cruz and a bases-loaded double to Greene that made the
score 6-3.


Greene tied a career high with four hits.


Meanwhile Gonzalez was 3-for-3 with a two-run homer and an RBI
double.  Gonzalez reached base all five times, being walked and
hit by a pitch, and fell a triple short of his first cycle. The
third-year first baseman added an RBI double as part of a four-
run sixth that broke open the game at 10-5.


Carlos Quentin hit his first home run of the season - a two-run
shot in the first to give Arizona an early lead.


In the first matchup of pitchers 43 or older, David Wells earned
his first win by allowing five runs and eight hits in five
innings.

