

Indonesia and Singapore are to resume military training under a
new agreement, the city-state's defence minister said in a report
Wednesday.


The partnership follows the announcement of an extradition treaty
between the two nations which will be finalised alongside the
defence pact on Friday.


"It means that we'll be able to resume training and also to
expand and broaden that training," Singapore's defence minister
Teo Chee Hean was quoted as saying in The Straits Times.


The agreements will be signed on the Indonesian resort island of
Bali on Friday.


Indonesia's foreign minister said Tuesday an extradition treaty
with Singapore will help bring to justice officials and business
figures accused of corruption during former dictator Suharto's
regime.


Singapore, a regional financial centre, has denied allegations
from Jakarta lawmakers that it is used by Indonesian criminals to
launder money, and has insisted it has proper safeguards.


The city-state's founding father, Lee Kuan Yew, was quoted by The
Straits Times on Wednesday as saying he was not worried that
wealthy Indonesians would pull their money out of the banking
system or property market following the deal.


"Please remember the financial sector was not built up on
Indonesian money," said Lee, who holds the influential cabinet
position of Minister Mentor.


"Indonesian money is no more than two to three percent."


The extradition treaty and defence agreement comes after a period
of strained relations between the two nations over Jakarta's ban
on the export of land sand used to make concrete, a move that is
hurting Singapore's booming construction industry.

