

Japan's Honda Motor reported Wednesday a small drop in annual
profits, snapping a five-year record-breaking streak as it
battles tough competition in its home market and higher costs.


Honda posted net earnings of 592.3 billion yen (5.0 billion
dollars) for the fiscal year to March, better than its own
forecast for a 555 billion yen profit but 0.8 percent less than
the previous year's 597.0 billion.


Operating profit dropped by 2.0 percent to 851.9 billion yen
while revenue grew by roughly 12 percent to 11.09 trillion yen,
helped by a weaker yen, the automaker said in a statement.


The decline was mainly the result of the negative impact of the
change in model mix, soaring raw material costs, increased
spending on research and development and higher general expenses,
Honda said.


The absense of a one-off gain booked a year earlier from pension
related gains also weighed on Honda's bottom line, offsetting the
positive impact of higher revenue, cost reduction effects and a
weaker yen, it added.


Honda's automobile sales in Japan decreased by 3.4 percent in the
year to 672,000 vehicles, while overseas sales were up 10.6
percent to 2.980 million.


Honda forecast a further decline in earnings in the current
fiscal year to March 2008, when it expects net profit to fall 2.9
percent to 575 billion yen and operating profit to slide 9.6
percent to 770 billion yen.


The downturn follows five consecutive years of record profits at
Honda, which like other Japanese automakers has enjoyed brisk
sales in the US market even as local automakers General Motors
and Ford struggle.


For the fourth quarter alone Honda's net profit fell by 19.7
percent from a year earlier to 176.1 billion yen.


Operating profit slumped by 26.6 percent to 250.2 billion yen
while revenue increased by 9.0 percent to 3.09 trillion yen.

