

Iraq's relatively peaceful northern region of Kurdistan is
witnessing a large number of so-called "honour killings" of
women, the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq said
Wednesday.


In its 10th report on human rights situation in Iraq, covering
three months to March 2007, UNAMI said Iraq's three Kurdish
provinces of Dohuk, Arbil and Sulaimaniyah have reported dozens
of women killed for "immoral conduct".


"Between January and March, UNAMI received information on some
forty cases of alleged honour crimes in Arbil, Dohuk,
Sulaimaniyah and Salaheddin where young women reportedly died
from accidental burns at their homes or were killed by family
members for suspected immoral conduct," the report said.


Citing examples, the report said in January the charred remains
of a woman were found on the outskirts of a town in Arbil, while
a woman and her married boyfriend were reportedly shot dead by
her brother in February.


The report criticised the Kurdish regional government for its
slow response to these acts of violence against women.


The United Nations also expressed concern over the treatment of
detainees in prisons run by Kurdish Asayish (security) forces,
and over atttacks on press freedom by the same shadowy
organisation.


"UNAMI continues to receive allegations of torture or ill-
treatment of detainees in Asayish detention facilities," it said.


"The Kurdistan Regional Government continued to subject
journalists to harassment, arrest and legal actions for their
reporting on government corruption, poor public services and
other issues of public interest."


Iraq's Kurdish autonomous region largely runs its own affairs and
has enjoyed relative peace and growing prosperity since the US
invasion of March 2003, while Arab areas of Iraq have plunged
into sectarian warfare.

