

Grant Hackett said Sunday the end of his 11-year unbeaten reign
in the 1500-metres freestyle will inspire him to get back to his
best for next year's Beijing Olympics.


Poland's Mateusz Sawrymowicz ended Hackett's four-title
domination of the event with a European record of 14:45.94 to
beat Russian Yury Prilukov (14:47.29) and Britain's David Davies
(14:51.21).


Australia's Hackett, beset by a disrupted preparation, trailed in
seventh place in 14:59.59, just over 25 seconds outside his world
record.


"Every athlete goes through difficult times in their career,"
Hackett said after losing all three of his world titles in the
400/800/1500m over the last week.


"I am proud of myself for getting up there. People thought I had
plenty to lose but I had nothing to lose (in the 1500).


"It's their performances that make it extremely inspiring for me
to go back to my best."


Hackett is bidding for a hattrick of Olympic titles in the 1500m
at Beijing after winning in Sydney and Athens.


"It was a difficult race and of course this isn't the result that
I wanted, but just to get myself on the blocks was a victory for
me. It was such a challenge emotionally, physically and mentally
just to get there," he said.


"It happens to every athlete at one point or another in their
career. It's the way that you pick yourself up from these times
that shows who is a true champion."


"Congratulations to Mateusz Sawrymowicz, David Davies and Yury
Prilukov," he said.


"They have been very consistent over the last few years. It's
only going to get more competitive and faster over the next few
months and I am looking forward to the challenge."


"I am looking forward to racing these guys."

