

Heavy weapons fire rattled the Somali capital for a fourth day on
Sunday but with much less intensity, allowing residents who had
been trapped since Thursday by the pitched battles to flee.


In the Ali Kamin neighbourhood and the stadium area, where the
fighting between the Ethiopian army and Islamic insurgents had
been particularly fierce, residents were leaving their devastated
homes, some with a few meagre belongings, others with nothing at
all.


An AFP correspondent saw the bodies of six civilians lying in the
street.


In the stadium area, homes had been totally destroyed by
artillery fire and tanks.


In Ali Kamin, the burnt-out remains of an Ethiopian army truck
could be seen, with the dead bodies of two soldiers lying nearby.
An Ethiopian army tank was in position on the main crossroads and
the charred remains of seven burnt-out civilian trucks could be
seen.


No toll is available for the fighting since the Ethiopian army
launched its drive to rid the capital of hostile militia, but the
International Committee of the Red Cross estimates that dozens of
civilians have been killed.


According to a toll compiled by AFP from witnesses and hospital
sources at least 70 people had been killed by Sunday. The
fighting is the worst the city has seen for 15 years.


The Ethiopians launched their offensive Thursday against the
remnants of an Islamist movement it helped the Somali
transitional government topple earlier this year which has
continued to carry out guerrilla-style attacks.


The fighting shattered a feeble six-day ceasefire with the
powerful Hawiye clan which has controlled Mogadishu since the
1991 ouster of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre.

