

Britain and Iran are locked in a stand-off over the Iranian
navy's seizure of 15 British military personnel on March 23 in a
waterway between Iraq and Iran.


Here is an updated timeline of events in the standoff.


Friday, March 23


-- Britain's Ministry of Defence announces that 15 British
sailors and marines inspecting a merchant ship in Iraqi waters
have been seized at gunpoint by personnel aboard Iranian navy
ships.


-- The ministry says the HMS Cornwall, the frigate which
supported the inspection carried out by the sailors on two boats,
was operating within the scope of UN Security Council resolution
1723.


-- Iran's ambassador in London, Rasoul Movahedian, is summoned to
the Foreign Office.


-- British Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett says London is
demanding the immediate return of the group as well as a
"complete explanation" from Tehran.


-- Iran's foreign ministry says the sailors illegally entered
Iranian territorial waters and were arrested by border guards
"for investigation and questioning."


Saturday, March 24


-- The semi-official Fars news agency says the sailors and
marines have been transferred to the capital Tehran to explain
their actions. It reveals that one is a woman.


-- An Iranian official tells the Fars agency that the authorities
have proof from the seized vessels' navigation equipment that the
sailors knowingly entered Iranian waters.


-- Armed forces general staff spokesman General Alireza Afshar
says the 15 British service personnel admitted to violating its
territorial waters, rejecting demands from London for their swift
release.


Sunday, March 25


-- Britain's ambassador to Tehran, Geoffrey Adams, asks to meet
with the 15 and demands their immediate release.


-- Prime Minister Tony Blair calls their seizure "unjustified and
wrong."


-- Iranian Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki says the 15 stand
accused of "illegal entry" into the country's territorial waters.


Monday, March 26


-- Iran's deputy foreign minister Mehdi Mostafavi says the
Britons are being interrogated and will have to answer to
allegations they violated Iranian waters.


-- Iraqi Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari says the group was
seized in Iraqi not Iranian waters as maintained by Tehran.


Tuesday, March 27


-- Tony Blair warns Iran that the stand-off would enter a
"different phase" if diplomatic efforts to secure their release
failed.


-- In Ankara, Margaret Beckett calls on Iran to quickly release
the group and allow British diplomats access to them, before
cutting short her visit to Turkey to brief the British parliament
on the absence of any progress.


Wednesday, March 28


-- Britain releases evidence it says proves the Britons were in
Iraqi waters when seized and announces a freeze on official
contacts with Iran. Tony Blair pledges to "ratchet up" pressure
on Tehran.


-- In Tehran, the Iranian foreign ministry says it will release
the only woman among the captives, sailor Faye Turney, in one or
two days.


-- Iranian television broadcasts the first footage of the sailors
and marines in which Turney says "Obviously we trespassed in the
(Iranian) waters."


-- Iran releases a letter, purportedly written by 26-year-old
Turney to her family, in which she said she had apologised to the
Iranians for trespassing.


-- Britain condemns Iran for publishing the letter and for airing
the footage and voices concerns about possible coercion.


-- US President George W. Bush gives full backing to Britain over
the crisis while US aircraft carriers continue exercises in the
Gulf near Iran that Washington says are unrelated to the stand-
off.


-- Britain says the Iranian promise to release just Turney is
"not good enough" and has had no direct confirmation from Iranian
officials that they will be granted consular access to the
sailors and marines.


Thursday, March 29


-- Iran changes its mind about releasing Turney, accusing London
of stirring up a furore and saying the sailors had entered its
waters at six different points before being arrested.


-- Blair warns Iran there was a "whole series of measures" that
could be taken and calls the showing of Turney footage a
"disgrace."


-- Britain's UN envoy says Global Positioning System (GPS)
coordinates were changed by Iran, while London's ambassador to
Tehran lodges a formal protest over the television footage.


-- US Under Secretary of State Nicholas Burns says no reason "to
choose a confrontational path" with Iran for the moment.


-- UN Security Council adopts a watered-down statement expressing
"grave concern" at the detention, urging Tehran to allow consular
access.


-- UN chief Ban Ki-moon discusses the situation with Iranian
Foreign Minister Mottaki .


-- EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana says he has told the
Iranian foreign minister that the seizure was "unacceptable" and
promised Britain "solidarity."


-- Tehran releases a second letter apparently written by Turney,
in which she suggested it was time for Britain to withdraw its
troops from Iraq.


Friday, March 30


-- Iran airs television footage of a "confession" from Royal Navy
serviceman Nathan Thomas Sommers and a third letter from Turney.


-- Britain calls the latest TV footage "outrageous" propaganda,
vowing to increase Iran's isolation but stressing the need for
patience.


-- The United States rejects suggestions the 15 could be swapped
for five Iranian officials held by US forces in Iraq since
January.


-- The European Union defies Iranian calls to stay out of the
row, calling the seizure a breach of international law and
threatening to take action.


-- Russia urges the United Nations to prepare an independent
report.


-- Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad says Britain should
apologise for "violating" its territorial waters.


-- Oil prices surge past 69 dollars a barrel in London, a near
seven-month high.


Saturday, March 31


-- Britain's Foreign Office says pursuing a "formal discussion"
with Iran after it lodged an official protest over televised
footage.


-- Iranian foreign ministry says a British diplomatic note it had
received "could be examined," but that Tehran awaits a "balanced"
attitude from London.


-- Iran warns Britain over politicising the crisis, while British
Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett accuses Iran of "sabre-
rattling."


-- Iranian resistance group claims seizure was premeditated in
order to win concessions from the international community and
divert attention from its nuclear programme.


-- British former hostage and Church of England negotiator Terry
Waite offers help in negotiating a release.

