

A ship of Greenpeace anti-whaling activists anchored in Japan on
Sunday, ending a nearly week-long standoff after the country's
sailors' union blocked the vessel from arriving.


The Dutch-flagged "Esperanza," which trailed Japan's whaling
fleet for more than a month in the Antarctic, sailed into
Yokohama, a major port just south of Tokyo.


The 23 people aboard the vessel have planned a week of
campaigning in hopes of building sympathy in whale-hunting Japan
for the giant mammals.


"We're here and we're official," Greenpeace spokeswoman Sara
Holden said from aboard the Esperanza. "It took a lot of effort
to do so, but it's important for us to come and to try to really
start a debate."


The Esperanza arrived in Japanese waters Tuesday but was unable
to dock after the agent handling its paperwork backed out under
pressure from Japan's sailors' union.


Greenpeace finally acted as its own agent to secure docking
privileges as the ship drifted at sea.


Japan, which argues that whale meat is part of its culture, kills
some 1,000 whales a year, mostly in the Antarctic Ocean which
Australia and New Zealand consider a sanctuary for the animals.


Greenpeace said it would invite diplomats from countries that are
members of the International Whaling Commission (IWC) to tour the
Esperanza, which was flying a banner reading, "We love Japan, but
not whaling in the sanctuary."


The IWC banned commercial whaling in 1986 on the grounds that the
mammals were endangered and that the hunt was cruel.


Japan uses a loophole that allows hunting for scientific
research, while campaigning for an outright resumption of
commercial whaling.

