

A candidate for congress in May 14 elections in the Philippines
was shot dead early Saturday in what police said was likely a
politically-motivated slaying.


Vicente Diestro Rabaya of the Nationalist People's Coalition was
found dead in the front seat of his car in the Manila suburb of
Quezon city.


Clemente Barcena, head of the Quezon City homicide division, said
Rabaya, 43, had been shot in the head and body.


"He was shot at close range," Barcena told local media. "We're
not accusing anyone but we're inclined to believe the killing was
politically motivated."


Rabaya's father was quoted by local media as saying he believed
his son was killed by hired gunmen.


Political killings are common in the Philippines and
international rights groups and the influential Roman Catholic
church have expressed concerns over the level of violence in the
country.


Filipino voters will elect the entire 250-member House of
Representatives, half of the 24-member Senate, and thousands of
local officials, including governors and mayors.


Last week, in the central province of Masbate, a local political
leader was killed and three members of a mayor's civil security
group were wounded in separate shootings.


Masbate, an island province of 20 towns and one city, is known
for intense political rivalries and the existence of armed groups
that have earned it a reputation for being a hotbed of election
violence.


In December, congressman Luis Bersamin, a key of President Gloria
Arroyo, was assassinated on the front steps of a Manila church.


Police said his killing was linked to local political rivalries.


That same month, Manila lawmaker Roberto Jaworski was the target
of a car bomb attack in the capital but escaped unharmed.


A number of town mayors have been killed in recent weeks.


Arroyo has ordered police to break up "private armies" controlled
mostly by provincial politicians to prevent pre-election
bloodshed.

