

England's bid for a fifth successive Hong Kong Sevens crown ended
here Sunday when they were thrashed by New Zealand in the
quarter-finals.


Fiji, Samoa and South Africa also won through to the semi-finals
with victories over Scotland, Australia and Tonga.


New Zealand, now favourites for the title to be decided later
Sunday, dominated the crunch match against England after awesome
winger Afeleke Pelenise scored within the first minute.


Captain Simon Amor's team fought hard but Kiwis Nigel Hunt and
Steven Yates ran in two well-worked tries before half-time for a
19-point lead.


In a frantic second half, England tried to get back into the game
but another try from Yates sealed the victory 26-0.


England coach Ben Ryan said it was disappointing that the side
could not attempt to clinch a fifth consecutive title.


"We were beaten by a better side. They struck early on and we
were always playing catch-up," Ryan said.


"We don't like to lose in the knock-out stage and losing in Hong
Kong makes it even worse. We are proud to have won four in a row,
so it is hard to go down like this."


He said the players were still coming together as a team.


"A lot of our players from last year have moved up (to the full
international side), which is our job. But it takes time to get
others ready to replace them.


"Our heads will be down for a while but hopefully the players
have learnt a lot, and we will be back next year," he said.


England, who received huge support from the 40,000-capacity
crowd, has held the title since 2002. The 2005 Hong Kong Sevens
was replaced by the World Cup.


Fiji beat Scotland 28-7 in a free-flowing game full of missed
tackles and moments of brilliance, with William Ryder scoring
three run-away tries and again proving he is one of the most
exciting players in the game.


In the semis, Fiji play New Zealand, while Samoa, the quiet team
of the tournament, meet South Africa.

