

American Bubba Watson caught fire and holds the lead during the
third round of Saturday's weather-hampered 5.5 million dollar PGA
Houston Open, which has been been suspended by darkness.


Players were unable to take the course Saturday morning due to
heavy rains that delayed the start of play for nearly six hours.


Watson posted 10 birdies against just one bogey through 15 holes,
putting him at nine-under for the day and 15-under overall for
the tournament.


In his second full year on the PGA Tour, Watson is seeking his
first career USPGA win. He has two top-10 finishes in eight
events this year.


When play was called with 30 players still on the course, Watson
was holding a three-shot lead over Jeff Maggert, who played 12
holes at six-under.


Johnson Wagner was able to play his entire third round, signing
for an eight- under-par 64, moving to 11-under 205 through 54
holes.


Paul Stankowski (65) and Australian Adam Scott (65) also are at
11-under.


Defending champion Stuart Appleby of Australia played 15 holes at
four-under and is 10-under for the tournament.


But everyone has work to do in order to catch Watson, who was in
top form throughout.


Watson birdied five of his first eight holes before his lone
miscue at the par- three ninth. However, he recovered with four
straight birdies after making the turn before adding his final
one at the par-five 15th.


Most of the top players have chosen to practise their way into
form leading up to The Masters.


Tiger Woods, defending Masters champion Phil Mickelson, Ernie Els
and three-time Houston Open champion Vijay Singh all are taking
this week off.


At fifth in the world, Scott is the highest-ranked player in the
field.

