

Despite being on a hit list because of their success, two black
labrador dogs have helped Malaysian authorities sniff out another
435,000 dollars worth of fake DVDs and CDs, a report said Sunday.


Lucky and Flo sniffed out the pirated discs in Petaling Jaya,
west of the capital Kuala Lumpur, after enforcement officials had
earlier failed to find them.


"Within minutes, the two labradors sniffed out the hidden discs
in a room that could only be accessed by the push of a button
hidden under a plug point," the New Sunday Times newspaper said.


The room was filled with a cache of discs ranging from Chinese
films to the latest Western releases, it said.


Firdaus Zakaria, enforcement director with the domestic trade and
consumer affairs ministry, said the shop had been raided
previously, but nothing was found.


"Lucky and Flo have proved to be most helpful in cases like
these. Without them, we wouldn't have found the secret room," he
said.


Two people were detained, both aged 27.


The dogs, which came from Northern Ireland, are said to be the
only ones in the world trained to detect polycarbonate and
chemicals used in optical discs.


They either freeze or sit down when they sniff a haul, and are
rewarded by playing with a tennis ball when they have done their
job.


The dogs were brought to Malaysia last month for a one-month
trial by the Los Angeles-based Motion Picture Association, which
investigates piracy for major motion picture companies.


The dogs started sniffing out disc shipments at Malaysia's main
airport on March 13. And on March 19, they travelled south and
made their first bust by helping find pirated discs worth
millions of dollars in a car in the southern state of Johor.


Zakaria said last month that piracy syndicates were trying to
kill the dogs and had put a bounty on their heads.

