

Se Ri Pak, seeking to complete a career Grand Slam, seized a
share of the third- round lead here Saturday in the two million-
dollar LPGA Kraft Nabisco Championship.


The South Korean fired a 2-under-par 70 for a 4-under total of
212, level with Norway's Suzann Pettersen.


Pak, seeking her sixth major title and 24th LPGA title overall,
overcame a brace of bogeys on the back nine to put herself in
prime position.


"I really don't have much pressure because I've been there a lot
of times," Pak said.


Pak closed in impressive fashion, sinking a 35-foot birdie putt
on her final hole.


With a victory in this event, Pak would complete the career Grand
Slam. It would be another major accomplishment for the South
Korean, who will be inducted into the golf hall of fame later
this year.


Pettersen, who was runner-up to Lorena Ochoa at last week's
Safeway International in Arizona, is aiming for her first career
title. The Norwegian shot a 1-under 71, also closing with a
birdie.


"I'm just glad to be in this position again," Pettersen said. "It
feels nice and feels like I'm in good shape.  I just have to go
out there tomorrow and try to play my game."


Meaghan Francella and Paula Creamer both are a shot back at
3-under.  Francella shot a 69 - the best round of the day - while
Creamer signed for a 73.


Creamer, who won the season-opening tournament in Hawaii, entered
the day tied atop the leaderboard with Ochoa.


Ochoa, the 2006 player of the year who could overtake Annika
Sorenstam for the world No. 1 ranking with her first major title
this week, fell into a tie for 12th with a 77.


Her disappointing round included a quadruple bogey at the par-
three 17th.


"I was one behind, and suddenly I'm way back," Ochoa said. "I'm
OK."


Sorenstam, a 10-time major champion, failed to make any inroads
after two disappointing rounds, carding a 1-under 71 for 222.


Defending champion Karrie Webb of Australia carded a 73 for 220.

