

Pakistani players and dignitaries on Sunday attended a memorial
service for cricket coach Bob Woolmer, whose mysterious murder at
the World Cup was one of the darkest episodes in sporting
history.


Captain Inzamam-ul-Haq, batsman Salman Butt and all-rounder
Shoaib Malik joined 300 mourners for the hour-long service led by
Archbishop of Lahore Reverend Lawrence Saldanha.


Pakistan Cricket Board chairman Nasim Ashraf and Punjab governor
Khalid Maqbool were also at the 100-year-old Sacred Heart Church,
whose altar bore a portrait of the national coach decorated with
red roses and yellow marigold.


"We pay tribute to his excellent qualities. He was known for his
passionate interest in cricket. We salute him for his
professional competency, as well as his sense of responsibility
and commitment," Saldanha said.


"He was also a kind and gentle person who won the hearts of his
players who looked up to him as a second father."


Woolmer was found strangled in his Jamaican hotel room on March
18, one day after Pakistan were dramatically ousted from the
cricket World Cup following a defeat to minnows Ireland.


His death has shocked the international cricket community and
left Pakistan cricket fans and the team reeling amid speculation
over who might have been responsible.


Woolmer, 58, became Pakistan coach in 2004 and earned respect
from many Pakistanis.


The death of Woolmer, also a former coach of South Africa, has
sparked one of the most complex murder investigations in Jamaican
history.


It also triggered speculation about possible links to match-
fixing and illegal betting in cricket.


Around 50 officers are attempting to track down hundreds of
potential witnesses who were either visiting or staying at
Kingston's Pegasus Hotel in the days leading up to Woolmer's
death.

