

Sri Lanka plans to hold a referendum on whether to maintain a
fragile five-year- old ceasefire between government troops and
separatist Tamil Tiger rebels, a state-run newspaper said Sunday.


The government of President Mahinda Rajapakse hopes to "soon"
hold the vote on the controversial February 2002 truce arranged
and put in place by Norway, the Sunday Observer said.


"The president is interested in looking at the proposed abolition
of the ceasefire agreement in a democratic manner, enabling the
voters to decide on the fate of the ceasefire agreement (CFA),"
the Observer said.


Rajapakse's office was not immediately available for comment on
the report.


"If the people oppose the CFA and vote in favour of abolishing
it, then the government would go ahead (and) withdraw from it,"
the newspaper quoted a source in the president's office as
saying.


Rajapakse came to power in November 2005 on a pledge to end
Norway's role as peace broker in Sri Lanka and scrap the truce
agreed by a previous government which he accused of appeasing the
Tigers.


The truce began unravelling two months after Rajapakse took
office. Since then, more than 4,000 people have been killed in a
wave of violence.


Nordic truce monitors have said that the ceasefire now only
exists on paper.


However, neither side has formally ended the truce because they
fear a backlash from the south Asian island's key international
lenders who want the peace process maintained.


The truce allows either party to opt out by giving two weeks'
notice to Norway.

