

A South Korean protester set himself on fire Sunday outside a
Seoul hotel where talks on a free trade pact with the United
States are in their final hours, witnesses and hospital officials
said.


"It was so quick. A man was suddenly in flames and a group of
riot police sprayed fire extinguisher on his body," a
photographer at the scene told AFP.


"An ambulance took him immediately to a nearby hospital."


Another witness said: "He was shouting 'Stop FTA!' while setting
fire on himself. He was repeating the slogan even lying on the
road."


Officials at Joongang University hospital, where he was in an
emergency unit, identified him as Heo Se-Ok aged 56.


"He is not in a critical condition at the moment. He still has
consciousness and is still able to talk. But we'll have to see,"
Lee Bo-Kyung, a nurse at the emergency unit, told AFP.


At the time of the incident, demonstrators were protesting in
nearby streets against the free trade pact. Hundreds of riot
police with helmets and shields guarded the hilltop Grand Hyatt
hotel, the talks venue.


Police were not immediately available for comment.


Farmers and other workers who fear for their jobs, along with
activists, have staged numerous protests since the negotiations
began 10 months ago.


Last November major demonstrations left 63 people injured across
the country, including 35 police officers.


Police deployed some 10,000 officers over the weekend in the
capital. But protests since the final round of negotiations began
on March 26 been relatively small-scale and free of violence.


In September 2003 a South Korean activist committed suicide in
Mexico in protest at a World Trade Organisation meeting. Lee
Kyung-hae, 56, stabbed himself in the chest during a rally in
Cancun.

