

Poland's Mateusz Sawrymowicz ended Grant Hackett's four-title
domination of the 1500-metres freestyle with victory in the
30-lapper at the world championships on Sunday.


Sawrymowicz swam a European record of 14:45.94 to beat Russian
Yury Prilukov (14:47.29) and Britain's David Davies (14:51.21).


Australia's Hackett, beset by a disrupted preparation, trailed in
seventh place in 14:59.59, just over 25 seconds outside his world
record.


It capped a difficult week for the 26-year-old, who lost all
three of his world titles in the 400/800/1500m 16 months out from
the Beijing Olympics.


Sawrymowicz took over from Prilukov at the 550m and defied the
Russian's efforts to run him down for almost 1000m in a gritty
performance.


"I am so happy, this is my first medal at a world championships,"
he said.


"The first part of the race I was trying to keep near Prilukov
then he started getting tired and I tried to swim my best.


"It's great to beat Hackett, he's a four time world champion, but
I think he's not in his best shape. He will be better in
Beijing."


The Pole's previous best time was 14:53.76 at the Polish
championships last November and he had his first sub-15 minute
international at the 2003 Barcelona world championships where he
finished fifth in 14:59.38.


Sawrymowicz's victory ended a 13-year Australian domination of
the 1500m with Hackett winning the last four world titles in
Montreal, Barcelona, Fukuoka and Perth and Kieren Perkins winning
the 1994 race in Rome.


"It was always going to be difficult to make the final the way I
have been swimming this week," Hackett said.


"Nothing went according to plan. Every athlete goes through
difficult times in their career.


"I am proud of myself for getting up there. People thought I had
plenty to lose but I had nothing to lose."


Commonwealth Games champion Davies was out of reach for the gold
and silver but held on spiritedly for bronze from American Larsen
Jensen.


"You can do all the training you want but it's the race that
makes the difference," Davies said.


"It's about settling in and turning that last screw."

