

Australia captain Ricky Ponting criticised the efforts of
groundstaff at the Sir Vivian Richards Stadium after his side's
Super Eights match against Bangladesh was delayed by five hours
because of a wet outfield.


Heavy overnight rain undeniably caused problems but these were
exacerbated when the ground's only SuperSopper, a device for
removing surface water, broke down.


Nevertheless, there appeared to be a lack of urgency in dealing
with some of the most obviously affected areas around the
boundary edge.


Another meagre and increasingly frustrated crowd, which at one
stage made its feelings known with a slow handclap, was then
treated to the bizarre spectacle of groundstaff members treading
on small bits of sponge in a bid to soak up some water on one of
the biggest outfields in the entire Caribbean.


It was an approach that would have been regarded as wholly
inadequate and ludicrous at many amateur club grounds, let alone
one staging a World Cup match and at a venue named after one of
West Indies' greatest batsmen.


Thanks mainly to a sustained spell of sunshine and blue skies
there was ultimately sufficient time for a 22 overs per side
match which Australia won by 10 wickets here Saturday.


But afterwards a clearly unimpressed Ponting told reporters: "At
the end of the day, we were lucky to get a game in today. We
didn't see enough hands on deck out on the ground.


"I know they had a machinery breakdown which didn't help things,"
he added. "But I went and spoke to the umpires at one stage and
they said the groundstaff were on their lunchbreak.


"That was a little more time that was killed."


Few observers could recall seeing anything like the slapstick
scenes with the sponges and Ponting said: "They didn't have
enough of those to dry the ground.


"But the umpires (Aleem Dar of Pakistan and Billy Bowden of New
Zealand) handled it well, and we started at a sensible time when
the ground was in good enough shape."

