

Transit fees for ships using Egypt's Suez Canal increased on
Sunday by an average of nearly three percent, the canal authority
said, in the second such increase in a year.


Director of Public Relations Mohammed Mussa told AFP that the
change took effect at midnight, as originally announced by the
authority in December.


Fees rose 3.5 percent for cargo ships, 3.73 percent for oil
tankers and only 1.14 percent for passenger liners. Other types
of ships, including naval vessels, had a 2.84 percent increase.


The authority, which has run the canal since its nationalisation
in 1956, last raised fees in March 2006, also by three percent.


The last fee increase contributed to the canal's massive revenues
of 3.82 billion dollars in 2006, up from 3.4 billion dollars the
previous year, a number expected to increase in 2007 with a
forecast 7.6 percent rise in global trade, largely driven by
India and China.


Currently, some 7.5 percent of the world's trade passes through
the canal.


Egypt is in talks with China to ensure that close to 100 percent
of Chinese exports to Europe pass through the Suez Canal -- up
from the current 60 percent -- in exchange for lower transit
fees.


High energy prices also allow for higher canal fees since the
short cut between the continents save cargo ships large amounts
of fuel and traveling time.


The canal is still too small, however, for the largest long-haul
cargo and oil freighters.


The Suez Canal, which opened in 1869, is Egypt's third largest
source of revenue, after tourism and remittances from expatriate
workers.

