

Bayern Munich goalkeeper Oliver Kahn confirmed in the German
press on Sunday that he will hang up his boots at the end of next
season.


His club had hoped he would sign a contract extension but Kahn
reiterated his desire to call it quits in June 2008.


"My career as a goalkeeper will definitely end on June 30, 2008,"
said the the 37-year-old in Die Welt newspaper.


Kahn is still the first choice shot-stopper at Bayern but has
been surpassed by Arsenal's Jens Lahmann in the national team
set-up and retired from the German team after the World Cup.


"Just like I did with the national team, I will leave at the top.
I don't want to find myself in the situation where someone
decides for me."


Bayern chairman Karl-Heinz Rummenigge tried to urge Kahn to
change his mind last month and sign a new contract.


However, that angered Kahn's understudy at Bayern, Michael
Rensing, who has long been touted as the natural successor to the
emblematic Kahn.


But Bayern bosses later confirmed that 22-year-old Rensing was
indeed the man for the future.


"We signed him for that and for the moment, that's what should
happen in 2008," said the Munich club's general manager Uli
Hoeness.


Rensing will play in the crucial Champions League quarter-final
first leg against AC Milan on Tuesday as Kahn is banned for one
match for arguing with a doping official after the previous
round.


Kahn retired from the national team after 86 caps and he was
voted player of the tournament at the 2002 World Cup in Japan and
South Korea.


He began his career at Karslruhe before moving to Bayern where he
has won seven league titles, five cups, the Champions League in
2001 and the UEFA Cup in 1996.

