

The fourth straight day of heavy fighting left a trail of
devastation in the Somali capital on Sunday as Ugandan
peacekeepers reported their first death and clan elders called
for a ceasefire.


Frightened residents fled their homes with anything they could
carry while others were too terrified to move on streets where
Islamist rebels, clan gunmen and Ethiopian troops exchanged heavy
and light weapons fire.


The Ugandan army said one of its soldiers was killed and five
others wounded when mortar shells pounded the presidential palace
Saturday, marking the first death among African Union
peacekeepers deployed here.


"One of the troops was killed and five others wounded near the
presidential palace on Saturday," peacekeeper spokesman Captain
Paddy Ankunda told AFP.


Residents were pouring out of the Ali Kamin neighbourhood and the
stadium area, where the fighting between the Ethiopian army and
Islamist insurgents has been fierce.


An AFP correspondent saw the bodies of six civilians lying in the
street. Homes in the stadium area had been totally destroyed by
artillery fire and tanks.


"There is still fighting over here. There are tanks everywhere.
Shells are landing everywhere and this is very scary," Hussein
Ali, a resident of southern Mogadishu, told AFP.


"There are very few residents in the battle zone. I cannot
confirm the exact casualties, but a lot of people have been
killed and others wounded," he added.


The bodies of two soldiers could be seen on a street next to the
remains of an Ethiopian army truck. Nearby an Ethiopian tank was
in position on a crossroads near the charred remains of seven
burnt-out civilian trucks.


No toll is available for the fighting since the Ethiopian army
launched its drive to rid the capital of hostile militia, but the
International Committee of the Red Cross estimates that dozens of
civilians have been killed.


According to a toll compiled by AFP from witnesses and hospital
sources at least 70 people had been killed by Sunday. The
fighting is the worst the city has seen for 15 years.


Residents said the toll could be much higher as other areas
remained inaccesible.


As shells continued crashing down on residential areas and sniper
fire rang out, elders from the dominant Hawiye clan made frantic
calls for ceasefire to allow trapped civilians to flee.


In a statement, the elders said rival sides should observe an
unconditional truce and withdraw their forces from frontline
neighbourhoods.


"We call on both sides to stop the fire ... and withdraw from the
frontlines four hours after the ceasefire is implemented," they
said in a statement.


"We ask the AU peacekeeping mission AMISOM, to monitor the
implementation of this ceasefire," added the statement.


Residents said a battalion of Ethiopian troops had entered
Somalia on Saturday through the border post of Beledweyne to
reinforce their colleagues.


The Ethiopians launched their offensive Thursday against the
remnants of an Islamist movement it helped the Somali
transitional government topple earlier this year.


But despite being driven out of the capital in apparent
confusion, and pounded by US warplanes as they retreated into the
countryside, the Islamists have returned to the capital to launch
guerrilla-style attacks.


Some of the insurgent leaders have alleged links to Al-Qaeda and
the United States has warned the terror group is hoping to turn
the failed east African country into a new base.


The latest fighting, which has defied international calls for a
truce, shattered a feeble six-day ceasefire with the Hawiye clan
which has controlled Mogadishu since the 1991 ouster of dictator
Mohamed Siad Barre.


The downing of an Ethiopian helicopter on Friday and the dragging
of dead soldiers through the streets of Mogadishu this past week
was a dark reminder of a failed UN-backed US peace operation in
Somalia in the early 1990s.

