

Nepal's rebel Maoists must renounce violence entirely after being
given positions in a new interim government, the United States
said Sunday.


"As a partner in the interim government, the Maoists must now be
held fully accountable for their actions," a statement from the
US embassy here said.


"They must meet their commitments and at last join the mainstream
as a non- violent political party," it said.


The Maoists vowed to end their decade-long civil war when they
signed a peace deal in November last year, but they still feature
on Washington's list of foreign "terrorist" organisations.


The US ambassador to Kathmandu also warned mainstream political
leaders last week that it was too early to allow the former
rebels into government.


The statement was issued immediately after the former rebels were
sworn into a new interim cabinet, taking government posts for the
first time. The cabinet includes five Maoist ministers and one
with a junior portfolio.


The cabinet will oversee elections to a body that will rewrite
Nepal's constitution permanently and address the future of
Nepal's embattled monarchy.


"The next step in this process should be the holding of
constituent assembly elections as quickly as possible," the
statement said.


Sunday's cabinet formation marks a milestone in Nepal's peace
process, and is a vital test for the former rebels to see whether
they can function in the political mainstream.


The group continues to be accused of mafia-like practices,
including beatings, kidnappings and extortion.


At least 13,000 people were killed in the Maoist "people's war"
that began in the rural west of the country in 1996.

