

The Zimbabwe government on Sunday urged workers to ignore calls
by labour union leaders for a two-day general strike against the
economic meltdown.


"I wish to appeal to all workers to ignore the politically-
motivated stayaway being called for by the Zimbabwe Congress of
Trade Unions (ZCTU) on April 3 and 4," Labour Minister Nicholas
Goche said in a statement.


ZCTU said it decided to call a general shutdown following the
authorities' failure to respond to concerns about the worsening
economic crisis.


Four in every five potential workers are jobless in Zimbabwe and
official inflation stands at 1,730 percent.


"Government has learned that it is the individuals in the ZCTU
who are aligned to the oppositional politics of the Movement for
Democratic Change (MDC)...who want to be seen participating in
the current Western-backed violence aimed at regime change in
Zimbabwe," Goche said.


He said everyone should report for work as usual, adding that the
authorities would ensure public transport was available and
security ensured during the strike days.


"Employers are free to deal with the workers who choose to
deliberately stay away from work," he said.


In September, labour union leaders were forced to abandon plans
for mass anti- government protests after the organisers were
rounded up in a police crackdown.


Zimbabwe's economy has been on a downward spiral in the last
seven years, characterised by runaway inflation and perennial
shortages of basic commodities.


Its annual rate of inflation, already the highest in the world,
should hit 4,000 percent by year end, according to the
International Monetary Fund (IMF).

