

Asian airlines are likely to see a drop in earnings over the next
two years due to growing competition from Middle Eastern firms
and regional low-cost carriers (LCCs), an industry group said
Sunday.


A renewed focus on the region by European and North American
rivals could also hurt the Asian carriers' bottom line, the
Centre for Asia Pacific Aviation said in a summary report.


The Sydney-based consultancy gave no estimate of the drop in
profits expected for 2007 and 2008.


"Long-haul profitability will be weakened by rising competition
from Middle East carriers and an intensified focus on Asia by
European and North American airlines, as well as increasing long-
haul activity by the region's LCCs," said Peter Harbison, the
Centre's executive chairman.


Hong Kong's long-haul budget carrier Oasis launched its first
service to London's Gatwick Airport at the end of October last
year and in January announced plans to fly to Oakland, California
from June.


Southeast Asia's low-cost aviation pioneer Tony Fernandes, who
launched budget carrier AirAsia more than five years ago, in
January unveiled long-haul discount airline AirAsia X, with
flights to Britain expected by September 2008.


For some two dozen Asian and Middle Eastern airlines in search of
investors to fund expansion plans, there is a "brief window of
opportunity" as equity markets have a "generally favourable" view
of the sector, the Centre said.


The report did not list the 23 airlines involved, but said they
were looking to raise funds for fleet expansion and
restructuring.

