

A man who played a key role in securing George W. Bush's
reelection has become the first member of the president's inner
circle to publicly break up with him insisting that Bush's 2004
rival, Democratic Senator John Kerry, was right on Iraq, The New
York Times reported on its website late Saturday.


The newspaper said Matthew Dowd, who was the president's chief
campaign strategist in 2004, now says his faith in Bush was
misplaced and that Kerry was correct in calling for a withdrawal
from Iraq.


In a wide-ranging interview in Austin, Texas, Dowd criticized the
president as failing to call the nation to a shared sense of
sacrifice at a time of war, failing to reach across the political
divide to build consensus and ignoring the will of the people on
Iraq, the report said.


He said he believed the president had not moved aggressively
enough to hold anyone accountable for the abuses at Abu Ghraib
prison in Iraq, and that Bush still approached governing with a
"my way or the highway" mentality reinforced by a shrinking
circle of trusted aides, the paper said.


"If the American public says they're done with something, our
leaders have to understand what they want," The Times quotes Dowd
as saying. "They're saying, 'Get out of Iraq.'"


Dowd, who in 2004 helped cast Senator Kerry as a flip-flopper who
could not be trusted with national security, said he had even
written but never submitted an op-ed article titled "Kerry Was
Right," the report said.


"I really like him, which is probably why I'm so disappointed in
things," Dowd is quoted as saying of Bush. "I think he's become
more, in my view, secluded and bubbled in."


He said his decision to step forward had not come easily, The
Times pointed out.


But he said his disappointment in Bush's presidency was so great
that he feels a sense of duty to go public given his role in
helping Bush gain and keep power, the report said.

