

Organisers behind a campaign that saw Sydney impose a one-hour
blackout to focus attention to global warming hailed it as a
success for taking the equivalent of nearly 50,000 cars off the
road.


Energy Australia said the event -- which saw the lights switched
off on the Sydney Harbour Bridge and Opera House and in 65,000
homes and 2,000 businesses -- had cut normal energy use by an
estimated 10.2 percent.


Sydney switched off at 7:30 pm Saturday (0930 GMT) as residents
and firms joined "Earth Hour" to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.


The World Wildlife Fund (WWF), which organised what it called a
world first event, said discussions would now take place to take
the concept national.


"We would have thought about a five percent reduction would have
been a good result, but we've seen a reduction of over 10
percent," a spokesman for Energy Australia spokesman said.
"That's a tremendous result."


"What people would have learnt from this is that energy
efficiency is quite simple -- it's as simple as flicking a
switch."


Giving comparisons, Energy Australia said that the 25,000 tonnes
of carbon dioxide saved was equivalent to taking 48,613 cars off
the road for an hour.


The saving of more than 20,000 kilowatt hours of energy was
enough to power 200,000 televisions for 60 minutes, it added.


A spokeswoman for WWF said it was "desperately happy and
relieved."


"We set out to prove the fact that individual action collectively
looks like this," she told Australian Associated Press.


"On a range of environmental actions that we need to take --
energy efficiency and water efficiency -- individual action is
the key, and this has shown what it can do. It's pretty
spectacular when you get to prove that."


Scientists link dangerous increases in global temperature to the
greenhouse effect, in which gases emitted by burning fossil fuels
to produce energy trap heat in the atmosphere.

