

The French southern port of Marseille was back in business on
Sunday after an 18 -day-strike ended with an agreement meeting
union demands.


Workers at Europe's second largest oil terminal after Rotterdam
on Saturday endorsed a deal ending a dispute over the hiring of
workers at a new terminal run by the state-controlled French gas
utility GDF.


GDF has long argued that for security reasons it would hire only
its personnel but on Friday, it offered five jobs for the dock
workers at its future terminal.


Sources close to the negotiations said the climbdown for GDF came
after the French government intervened to appeal for an end to
the strike that threatened to choke off fuel supplies, just three
weeks before the first round of voting in the presidential
election.


Port authorities said Sunday that it would take another 10 to 15
days for operations to return to normal.


About 60 ships remained blocked outside the port when work
resumed on Saturday but a port official was unable to say on
Sunday how many ships had been loaded.


CGT union official Pascal Galeote said more meetings would take
place in the coming days to finetune the deal that ended the
longest strike in 15 years at the Marseille port.


Dockers went on strike on March 14 to demand that GDF hire port
workers from the region to man the new GDF 2 terminal at Fos-sur-
Mer due to come on line in 2008. The Marseille port employs some
1,500 workers.


The French Union of Petroleum Industries had said that the holdup
at the port was costing tanker operators between 15,000 and
50,000 euros (19,980 and 66,614 dollars) a day, and could force
some refineries in France, Germany and Switzerland to halt
production as of Monday.

