

Corey Brewer hit four three-pointers and scored 19 points as top-
seeded Florida once again manhandled No. 2 UCLA with a 76-66 win
in the NCAA Tournament's national semi-finals.


Following up on last year's 73-57 rout of the Bruins in the
national championship game, the Gators (34-5) moved another step
closer to becoming the first team since Duke in 1992 to win back-
to-back titles.


They will face Ohio State for the championship on Monday.


Joakim Noah and Al Horford, who combined for 30 points and 16
rebounds in last year's meeting, were nearly as dominant with the
numbers, finishing with 17 points and 28 boards for the Gators on
Saturday.


Noah, the son of French tennis legend Yannick Noah, scored eight
points on 3-of-7 shooting from the field in 33 minutes of floor
time.


"Last year our motto was PHD: Poor, hungry and driven," Noah
said. "This year, I feel like our motto is 'Poor, hungry and
driven,' except there are filet mignon and salami and all that
kind of food being thrown around everywhere."


With strange looks staring back at him, Noah went on with his
explanation. "There is all this food around," he added, "but you
have to just focus on the task at hand and not worry about all
that good food and stay hungry."


While Brewer, who had 11 points in the previous meeting, led a
stellar 9-of-21 showing from the arc, Aaron Afflalo - the Pac-10
Player of the Year - was once again bottled up, collecting 17
points on 5-of-14 from the field only after a late flurry.


Despite managing just five points in the opening 8 1/2 minutes,
Florida took a 29-23 advantage into intermission behind 15 points
on 4-of-4 shooting by Brewer.


Although the Bruins (30-6) closed within 32-28 on a 3-pointer by
Michael Roll 1:16 into the second half, the Gators quickly blew
open the contest with a 12-0 run, pulling ahead 44-28 on a dunk
by reserve forward Chris Richard with 13:51 remaining.


Florida eventually extended the lead to 54-36 after a three-point
play by Richard before UCLA came alive when the outcome had been
decided.


Richard ended up with 16 points on 7-of-7 shooting and Lee
Humphrey added 14 with four 3-pointers for the Gators, who
improved to 25-7 in the NCAAs under coach Billy Donovan.


Josh Shipp, who missed last year's matchup with a hip injury, was
the lone bright spot for the Bruins, finishing with 18 points and
five assists.

