

Nepal's Maoists were sworn into a new interim government on
Sunday, witnesses said, in a major step forward for a peace
process that ended a decade of civil war in the nation.


The former rebels hold five portfolios in a 22-member cabinet
tasked with steering the impoverished Himalayan nation into new
elections in June.


"It's a historic day for Nepal," Maoist leader Prachanda, whose
name means "the fierce one", told reporters.


"A new process of making a new Nepal has begun now and our
responsibility has increased," he said.


He was speaking after the new ministers read out an oath in
parliament to be "committed and responsible for the sovereignty
of the nation and the people."


The rebels signed a peace deal with the country's mainstream
parties in November in a deal that formally ended the civil war
that claimed at least 13,000 lives.


Under the deal on the new cabinet, veteran Prime Minister Girija
Prasad Koirala -- the architect of the peace deal and leader of
the Nepali Congress party -- retains his position as premier.


The admission of the Maoists in a new government comes after the
former rebels registered their weapons and fighters with the
United Nations.


But the Maoists continue to face accusations of mafia-like
practices such as beatings, extortion and kidnappings, and remain
on a US list of "terrorist" organisations.


Prachanda, however, vowed his group would work to hold new
elections "in a free and fearless environment."


The polls, scheduled for June, will elect a body tasked with
rewriting Nepal's constitution that includes deciding the future
of the country's monarchy.


The Maoists are pushing for the country, one of the world's
poorest, to be declared a republic.

