

Bisher al-Rawi, an Iraqi held at the US base at Guantanamo Bay
for nearly five years, said Sunday his "nightmare is finally at
an end" in a statement issued after he returned to Britain, where
he lives.


He also spoke of the "hopelessness" and "extreme isolation"
suffered by detainees and asked to be granted time with his
family to come to terms with his "horrific experience".


Al-Rawi was arrested in November 2002 while on a business trip to
Gambia.


His mother, who has campaigned for his release, claims he was
there to help his older brother Wahab set up a peanut oil
processing business.


News of Al-Rawi's impending release was announced by Foreign
Secretary Margaret Beckett in a written statement to parliament
last week. Although he is not a British citizen, he has the right
to live in this country.


Beckett said it would follow "extensive discussions to address
the security implications of Mr Al-Rawi's return."


Following his release, the number of detainees at Guantanamo Bay
thought to be residents of Britain stands at eight. There are no
British citizens currently at the detention camp.


Clive Stafford-Smith, his lawyer, has said that Al-Rawi was
showing signs of secure housing unit psychosis, which affects
prisoners held in high-security compounds, after spending four
years in detention.


"The conditions in which he is being held are worse than any
death row I've ever seen," the lawyer has said.


Al-Rawi's immediate family fled Iraq more than 20 years ago after
his father was arrested and tortured under former Iraqi dictator
Saddam Hussein's regime.

