

At least 2,078 people died in Iraq last month, 15 percent more
than in February despite a massive security crackdown in Baghdad,
the epicentre of violence, a security official said on Sunday.


On average, 67 people died across the country every day in March,
compared to 64 in February.


A significant increase in Iraqi civilian, army and police deaths
was evident last month, the official said, based on detailed
statistics collected by the defence, interior and health
ministries.


Civilian deaths topped the toll with 1,869 Iraqis killed in
insurgency and sectarian bloodletting in March, compared to 1,646
in February.


Another 2,719 civilians were wounded last month, compared to
2,701 in February.


In March, 165 Iraqi policemen were killed against 131 the
previous month, while 44 Iraqi soldiers died compared to 29 in
February, the official said.


In March, 277 Iraqi policemen and 51 soldiers were wounded
against 147 and 47, respectively during February.


The official said the death toll among militants had fallen to
481 in March compared to 586 killed the previous month.


But those arrested surged to 5,664 in March against 1,921,
reflective of the massive Iraqi-US security operation launched on
February 14 in which 80,000 troops have been deployed in and
around the capital to root out insurgents.


The US military also lost 85 personnel in March, taking to 3,244
an AFP tally based on Pentagon statistics as of April 1, compared
to 3,159 on February 28.


The US military losses, heavily outweighing the deaths of Iraqi
soldiers if not Iraqi policemen, come despite Washington's claim
that Iraqi forces are leading the security crackdown in the
capital.

