

Police searched the office of the operator of a Japanese
amusement park Sunday the day after one passenger was killed and
19 others injured in a roller coaster accident.


National newspapers, calling for thorough safety checks,
frontpaged the incident in which a car derailed due to a broken
axle and hit a guardrail on the ride at the Expoland park in
Osaka.


"Safety first, not the thrill," the conservative daily Sankei
Shimbun said in an editorial.


It was the third roller-coaster accident to occur during a nine-
day Japanese holiday break which ended Sunday.


"We are investigating the case on suspicion of professional
negligence resulting in death," a spokesman for Suita police
station in Osaka told AFP by telephone.


The Expoland operator reportedly had not replaced the axle of the
ill-fated car on the 970-metre (yard) ride since it went into
operation in 1992.


Just hours after the accident, three people were slightly injured
in a stalled roller coaster car when it was bumped from behind by
another in Fukui by the Sea of Japan.


On April 28, a gust of wind stalled an ascending roller coaster
and sent it sliding back down a drop of 79 metres at a park at
the foot of Mount Fuji. No one was injured.


The government instructed local administrations on Saturday to
check some 1,000 roller coasters in operation across Japan.


Some amusement parks with rides similar to the Expoland one
suspended their operations until the cause of accident was
clearly determined.


But the rain Sunday appeared to have affected business more than
the accident.


"We don't particularly feel any impact of the Expoland accident
on the visitor turnout. But the rain affected us a lot," said
Shigemi Tokumaru, a spokeswoman for Tokyo Disneyland.


The last fatal accident involving a fairground ride in Japan
occurred in Tokyo in April 2005 when a physically handicapped man
died after falling five metres (16 feet) from a free-fall ride as
he was not properly buckled up.

