

The White House got out its best china and crystal tableware as
Britain's Queen Elizabeth II was due in Washington Sunday ahead
of the most lavish state reception of US President George W.
Bush's term.


After seeing a historic English settlement in Virginia and a
classic horse race in Kentucky, the monarch and her husband
Prince Philip were to touch down at the Andrews Air Force Base
near the capital on Sunday, according to a schedule published by
the Royal Family.


A majestic arrival ceremony is then set for Monday morning, when
the royal couple will be greeted on the south lawn of the White
House with a 21-gun salute and the national anthems of the two
countries, the White House said.


Some 7,000 diplomats, members of the US Congress and cabinet and
other officials will attend the ceremony.


On Monday evening, the president and the First Lady Laura Bush
will host a five- course state dinner in the queen's honor, with
the most formal dress code of white-tie and tails. It is the
first white-tie event at the White House during Bush's six years
as president.


The White House said the tables for the dinner would be adorned
with "historically significant pieces" from its collection,
including gold-rimmed china, the president's "house crystal" and
English vermeil gilded silver.


The queen last visited the United States in 1991 when Bush's
father was president.


"The United States has no closer ally and friend than Great
Britain," the White House said in a statement detailing the
tightly-coordinated protocol for the royal visit.


"Our nations share an exceptionally close relationship based on
deep historical and cultural ties, a common language, shared
values and interests, and a commitment to defend freedom around
the world."


The queen arrives from Kentucky, where she spent the weekend as
the guest of William Farish, a horse breeder and former US
ambassador to London. On Saturday she joined a star-filled crowd
at the number one US racing event, the Kentucky Derby.


Earlier this week, Elizabeth and Philip toured Jamestown,
Virginia, celebrating its 400th anniversary as the first
permanent English settlement in the Americas, where she lauded
the "deep and enduring" ties that bind Britain and the United
States.

