

Iran's Central Bank has adopted a directive that would allow
foreign firms to set up branches in the Islamic republic and buy
stakes in Iranian banks, state media reported on Sunday.


"The directive allows the opening of banks with joint Iranian and
foreign investment, the possession of shares in Iranian banks by
foreign investors and foreign banks to set up branches in the
country," the central bank said in a statement on the state-run
IRNA news agency.


It did not say whether there would be an upper percentage limit
for the stakes that foreign investors could take in Iranian
banks.


Foreign banks currently are allowed to open in Iran only in free
trade zones like the southern resort island of Kish and have no
branches elsewhere in the country.


It remains to be seen whether the central bank's decision could
pave the way for an important shake-up of the Iranian banking
landscape, currently an entirely domestic industry.


The legislation still needs to be ratified by the cabinet and
then presented to the parliament for a vote, the bank's statement
said.


The move comes amid US pressure on European banks to cut their
business with Iran as part of a package of measures to pressure
on Tehran to end its defiance over freezing sensitive nuclear
work.


The US pressure on European banking giants has made it harder for
Iran to win credit lines for projects. It is not clear whether
the central bank's move is related to this pressure.


The United States has also blacklisted two major Iranian state-
owned banks, banning them from carrying out transactions in US
dollars.


Washington accuses Iran's Sepah bank of helping finance the
country's weapons programme and Bank Saderat of supporting
terrorism by channelling funds to Islamist militant groups.

