

The former president of the Comoros island of Anjouan, whose
forces clashed with federal army troops this week, assured on
Sunday that he would respect the country's laws.


Following talks with African Union special envoy Jose Francisco
Madeira in the Anjouan capital of Mutsamudu, Mohamed Bacar said:
"I respect and will always respect the legal institutions of the
Union of the Comoros."


Fighting broke out on Wednesday between federal army soldiers and
forces loyal to Bacar, who had refused to accept last week's
constitutional court ruling that his five-year presidential term
had expired and he must step down.


Two soldiers were killed in the clashes, the federal government
said, although the autonomous Indian Ocean island has been
largely calm since then.


Speaking to reporters after three hours of talks, Bacar said he
backed the nomination last week of an interim president to take
over until presidential elections can be held across all three
Comoros islands in June.


Bacar, who came to power in a 2001 coup before being elected
president in March 2002, will be standing in those polls.


But he said he "did not agree with the procedure that was
applied," namely that the federal government was responsible for
the appointment.


For his part, Madeira said Bacar had reaffirmed that "the island
is an integral part of the Union and that the institutions of the
Union, including the army, will be present and operational in
Anjouan".


Anjouan declared independence from the Union of Comoros, a former
French colony that has endured 19 coups or attempted coups in the
past 30 years, in 1997, but rejoined it in 2001.

