

Iran on Sunday minimised the extent of contacts with arch-enemy
the United States at a conference in Egypt on Iraq's security,
saying the only meeting between the two sides lasted just
minutes.


Contact between Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki and US
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice was restricted to Mottaki
saying a general "hello" to a gathering of top diplomats, foreign
ministry spokesman Mohammad Ali Hosseini said.


The only talks at the meeting Thursday and Friday were between US
ambassador to Iraq Ryan Crocker and Iranian Deputy Foreign
Minister Abbas Araghchi. But Hosseini played down the
significance of even this rare contact.


"It was a passing conversation about the agenda. I wonder if you
could call it a meeting? It was a passing and quick encounter
that lasted three minutes," he said.


On Mottaki's contact with Rice, Hosseini emphasised: "There was
no negotiation at all.


"There was no special meeting. There was a luncheon hosted by the
Egyptian foreign minister and there were 30 foreign ministers. He
(Mottaki) entered the hall, said hello, and there were others
present too," he added.


Expectations had been high at the conference in the Red Sea
resort of Sharm el- Sheikh on Thursday and Friday that Mottaki
and Rice would hold the highest level bilateral contact between
the two sides since the United States cut relations in 1980.


But the lack of talks underlined the hostility between Washington
and Tehran, who remain at odds over the Iranian nuclear programme
and Iran's role in Iraq.


The atmosphere between the two sides never warmed with Mottakki
slamming the US role in Iraq in his speech and then walking out
of a dinner, where he was seated close to Rice, in protest at the
violinist's dress, which he reportedly considered too revealing.


Mottaki, in an interview with Al-Arabiya to be broadcast later
Sunday, said there was no point holding talks with Rice just to
please official protocol.


"We look at this matter from the point of view of content and not
one of formality," he said.


Mottaki added talks could only be held if the United States
showed signs of changing its conduct in Iraq and also the proper
preparations were made. But he also left the door open for such
an encounter in the future,


"We have, as appropriate, told them that if they are really
determined to solve the Iraqi issue some set steps have to be
taken. We cannot say when (there will be talks) but it could be
soon."


Tensions have also intensified in recent months over the arrest
by the United States of seven Iranians accused of being
operatives of the elite Qods brigade intent on stirring trouble.


Hosseini indicated that there is hope that the detainees, whom
Tehran insists are merely diplomats, would be allowed their first
meeting with families since their detention.


"They made a promise for the end of this week (for a meeting with
the families) but it needs more certainty and emphasis," he said,
apparently referring to the Iraqi government.


The United States arrested five Iranians in late January who were
working at an Iranian office in the northern city of Arbil. It is
still not clear where and when the two others were arrested.


In contrast to the lack of contact between Iran and the United
States, Rice held half an hour of talks with her Syrian
counterpart Walid Muallem. However Iran said it was unperturbed
by the meeting with its top regional ally.


"Syria is an independent country and has made its decisions
without taking into account the opinions of third parties. This
will have no impact on ties between Iran and Syria," said
Hosseini.

