

Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert and Foreign Minister Tzipi
Livni on Sunday agreed to continue to work together despite
Livni's call for the premier's resignation over a scathing
Lebanon war report.


Olmert and his deputy "met following the cabinet meeting and
agreed to work together in the government led by Ehud Olmert,"
his office said in a statement which came amid media speculation
about whether Olmert would fire Livni.


Livni, who enjoys the highest public support in Olmert's cabinet,
last week publicly called on Olmert to resign following an
interim report which found Olmert responsible for "serious
failures" during last summer's Lebanon war.


But Olmert has so far weathered the storm of calls for his head
from within the coalition government and his Kadima party as well
as the public, declaring he did not intend to step down.


The government-appointed committee led by former judge Eliyahu
Winograd spared heavy criticism from Livni, who is seen by many
as a potential successor to Olmert at the head of the centrist
Kadima party.


Livni told reporters earlier that "all I am interested in are the
diplomatic issues on the agenda. Foreign relations are not a
personal issue."


According to the statement, the two "agreed to continue to push
forward the diplomatic process," as diplomatic sources scrambled
to dismiss claims that diplomacy would be put on the back burner
due to the political crisis.


Livni is expected to travel to Cairo on Thursday for a round of
talks with her Egyptian counterpart and President Hosni Mubarak,
the sources said.

