

If Turkey's army grabs power from the government in a standoff
over the country's secular nature it will reduce Turkish chances
of joining the EU and of solving the Cyprus issue, the Cypriot
foreign minister was quoted as saying by a Greek paper Sunday.


"With the military in power and Turkey outside the European Union
we could not hope that the conditions would be ripe for progress
on the Cyprus issue," Cypriot Foreign Minister Georgios Lillikas
told the Eleftheros Typos daily.


"Derailing Turkey's European train is a negative contingency for
Cyprus, although it is not impossible that we will have to
imagine this scenario soon," he added.


Cyprus has been divided since 1974 when Turkish troops seized and
invaded its northern third in response to an Athens engineered
coup to unite the island with Greece.


Greek Foreign Minister Dora Bakoyannis also reiterated to
Eleftheros Typos that Athens supported "Turkey's European
prospects despite the reserves expressed by some EU member
countries."


"We consider that a European and democratic Turkey is in the
interest of peace, development and stability in our region," she
added.


The Turkish army, which has toppled four governments in as many
decades, issued a bombshell statement last week accusing the
government of tolerating rising Islamist activity in secular
Turkey after Islamist-rooted Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul stood
as the country's only presidential candidate.


Gul failed in his second bid to get elected Sunday, when a re-run
ballot in parliament was cancelled for lack of a quorum.


After the abortive session, which was boycotted by the
opposition, Gul said he would withdraw his candidacy, clearing
the way for early general elections which have been brought
forward from November to July 22.

