

South America, which is home to nearly half of the world's
Catholics, represents "the continent of hope", Pope Benedict XVI
said on Sunday, three days before embarking on his first trip to
the Americas.


"It is my first pastoral visit to South America and I am
preparing spiritually for my meeting with sub-continent South
America, where nearly half of the world's Catholics live,
including many young people," the pope said during Sunday prayer
of his trip to Brazil.


"This is why it has been dubbed 'the continent of hope': a hope
that concerns not only the Church but all of America and the
entire world," he added in his address to thousands of faithful
gathered at Saint Peter's square in the Vatican, some waving
Brazilian flags.


The pontiff asked the congregation to pray "for this apostolic
pilgrimage ... and for all Christians in these regions to feel
like the disciples and missionaries of Christ."


Benedict's May 9-14 trip to Brazil will be his sixth outside
Italy and only the second outside Europe, following his November
trip to Turkey.


The 80-year-old pontiff will stay in Sao Paulo for two days
before travelling to the small, nearby town of Aparecida.


There he will open a conference of Latin American and Caribbean
bishops, bringing together 166 bishops and cardinals from 22
countries.


Among the issues expected to be discussed at the conference are
the rise of evangelical sects in the region, as well as poverty
and exclusion and the impact of globalisation.

