

Pope Benedict XVI's trip to Brazil this week represents a chance
to promote social justice in South America, Vatican Secretary of
State Tarcisio Bertone said here on Sunday.


It was a "heaven-sent chance to put out a strong message to...
all the local communities and churches, to all Christians... but
also a chance to revive a strong solidarity movement and promote
justice on the Latin American continent," the cardinal told Radio
Vatican.


The pope will be in Brazil from May 9 to 14 to open a conference
of Latin American and Caribbean bishops, bringing together 166
clergy from 22 countries. It will be his first official trip to
the continent.


"Latin America is a continent suffering from appalling
situations," said Bertone, the second most senior official at the
Vatican.


"Think of the violence which inflicts particularly the big
cities, think of the drug trafficking that is becoming stronger
and more aggressive, think of the social inequalities that cannot
be bridged... but also the democratic deficit.


"In all these situations the church is present above all to
enforce the message of the gospels, but also to encourage a human
revolution, a revolution of equality, justice and pacification
that is in the very DNA of the church."


The message appears to be addressed at the numerous Latin
American supporters of liberation theology, a doctrine opposed by
the pope which calls for Catholics to take a greater role in
social and political activism.

