

"Spider-Man 3" swooped to the top of the North American box
office with the superhero's latest adventure, figures showed
Sunday, netting a record-smashing 148 million dollars on its
opening weekend.


The figures released by box-office tracker Exhibitor Relations
showed the mutant hero blasting the blockbuster season off to a
super-high earning start.


Its takings dwarfed the previous record, set last year by
Disney's "Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest," which took
135.6 million in its first three days, according to the movie
industry newspaper Variety.


The newspaper also calculated the single-day takings for "Spider-
Man 3" on Friday at 59 million, beating the "Pirates" record of
55.8 million in July 2006.


Among the other top grossing movies in North America this
weekend, "Spider-Man 3" eclipsed the 5.7 million for teen
thriller "Disturbia" which it knocked into second place after
three weeks at the top.


The latest instalment in the fantasy action series sees Tobey
Maguire as the web-shooting hero battle his arch-foe the Green
Goblin while juggling a rival love interest to his high school
sweetheart Mary Jane Watson (Kirsten Dunst).


Clad in a new-look black spider suit -- the result of tainting by
a malignant glob of protoplasm from outer space -- he also faces
high-octane combat with new villains, Venom and Sandman.


"Fracture," a legal police drama starring Anthony Hopkins and
Ryan Gosling, rose to third place with takings of 3.5 million
dollars, followed by another teen thriller, "The Invisible," with
3.125 million.

