

Supporters of Nicolas Sarkozy erupted in cheers Sunday,
celebrating unconfirmed reports of a resounding victory for the
rightwinger in France's presidential election.


Cries of "We won!" rose from the crowd of supporters gathered at
a concert hall in Paris where the rightwing leader was scheduled
to give an election night speech.


French law forbids the publication of projections until the last
polling booths close at 8 pm (1800 GMT) although the figures are
distributed to media and party headquarters up to 90 minutes in
advance.


Sarkozy, the former interior minister, ran against Socialist
Segolene Royal in the election to succeed President Jacques
Chirac who is stepping down after 12 years in office.


After voting in the chic Paris suburb of Neuilly sur Seine,
Sarkozy went to his Paris campaign headquarters in the late
afternoon, smiling broadly and shaking hands with members of the
crowd that gathered outside to await the result.


At Royal's campaign headquarters, some 300 supporters were
gathered in a somber mood, with a few members of the Socialist
youth movement defiantly shouting "Segolene, President!".


Technicians were erecting a stage in the Place de la Concorde in
central Paris late afternoon at the spot where celebrations were
planned for a Sarkozy victory.


Around 100 television crews and some 15 police buses were also at
the scene.


The first projections from exit polls were to be flashed across
the screens of major television stations immediately after the
polling stations close at 1800 GMT.


Thousands of police, anti-riot units and gendarmes were on
standby to quell any outbreak of violence in the suburbs where
Sarkozy is hated by many in the poor neighbourhoods that exploded
into rioting in late 2005.


Sarkozy, 52, says he wants to get France "back to work" and is
proposing tax cuts and incentives to free up the labour market.
He also supports tougher controls on immigration.

