

One Palestinian was killed and six others wounded on Sunday when
gunmen opened fire at a school run by the UN agency for
Palestinian refugees in the Gaza Strip, medics and security
sources said.


Gunmen from a religious extremist group opened fire at the
entrance of the school in the southern town of Rafah as students,
parents and teachers were leaving after a party, they said.


The dead man was identified as a bodyguard of Majid Abu
Shamallah, a lawmaker from president Mahmud Abbas's Fatah party
who was at the event.


John Ging, the Gaza director of the UN Relief and Works Agency
(UNRWA), was inside the school at the time of the shooting but
"he is all right," an official with the agency told AFP on
condition of anonymity.


Three of the alleged gunmen have been detained by Palestinian
security forces, a security source said.


"As the party was ending and people, parents and children were
leaving the school, the Salafist group threw two grenades and
opened fire," a security source said.


A group that described itself as Salafist, a strand of
puritanical Islam, on Saturday "sent a statement threatening to
sabotage the celebration organised by UNRWA because they were
against organising such an event," the source said.


On March 16, Ging escaped unscathed when gunmen fired on his
convoy just after it crossed into the unruly territory from
Israel.


UNRWA, the largest UN agency with more than 25,000 employees, was
established in the aftermath of the 1948 Arab-Israeli war to
provide relief for upwards of 700,000 Palestinian refugees
uprooted by the war.


Today the agency provides education, health, relief and social
services to more than 4.3 million registered Palestinian refugees
in Jordan, Lebanon, Syria, the West Bank and the Gaza Strip.


In the Gaza Strip alone, UNRWA cares for nearly one million
refugees.

