

Tamil Tiger rebels and government forces were locked in combat in
Sri Lanka's northeast Sunday with both sides claiming heavy
losses against each other.


A landmine detonated by Tamil Tigers killed three police
commandos in eastern Sri Lanka on Sunday, the defence ministry
said.


The Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) attack blew up a
police Special Task Force vehicle in Batticaloa district killing
three officers and wounding three more, the ministry said in a
statement.


Security forces shot five rebels in the north of the island early
Sunday while two more were killed in Batticaloa, the statement
said.


It said the guerrillas fired mortars across their front line in
Vavuniya, in the north of the island Sunday, injuring several
soldiers.


The LTTE said it had beaten back a military attempt to advance
into the rebel- held part of Vavuniya and had killed at least
five government troopers for the loss of three of their own
combatants.


"We have beaten back an advance by government forces and we
captured the bodies of five soldiers," LTTE spokesman Rasiah
Ilanthiriyan said by telephone from the rebel-held town of
Kilinochchi.


He said heavy fighting raged in the Vavuniya and Mannar districts
at the entrance to the rebel-held Wanni region.


The defence ministry had said that troops retaliated against a
long-range attack by the Tigers and said only four soldiers were
wounded. The ministry did not give details of rebel casualties.


The renewed violence came after the Sri Lankan navy said it
killed at least a dozen rebels in a battle off the northeast
coast on Friday night.


The LTTE has waged a 35-year campaign for independence that has
claimed more than 60,000 lives.


More than 4,800 people have been killed in the latest upsurge of
fighting that began in December 2005.

