

A man dressed in Afghan army uniform shot dead two US soldiers
Sunday outside Afghanistan's main, high security prison on the
outskirts of the capital Kabul, the US-led coalition said.


The attacker was then shot dead by Afghan troops and first
indications were that he was a rogue soldier, but this was under
investigation, coalition spokesman Major Sheldon Smith told AFP.


"He fired shots into a vehicle being driven by US service
personnel as they were leaving the prison. This action resulted
in the death of two soldiers and left two other soldiers
wounded," Smith said.


Afghan soldiers stationed outside the jail "rushed to the aid of
the US personnel and fatally shot the rogue soldier," he said.


It was not known if an earlier event had led to the shooting, or
if the attacker was linked to Taliban insurgents behind most of
the unrest in Afghanistan, Smith added.


The mid-afternoon shooting occurred outside the Pul-i-Charki jail
on the outskirts of Kabul. The jail houses criminals, Taliban and
Al-Qaeda fighters.


The soldiers attacked were mentors to the prison's personnel,
Smith said.


The US-led coalition, which led the offensive into Afghanistan
that toppled the Taliban regime in 2001, has troops embedded with
local security forces to help them rebuild.


"We have personnel there at the prison. They are mentoring and
training the Afghans on how to run a prison properly," the
spokesman said.


Around 50 foreign soldiers have lost their lives in Afghanistan
this year, most of them in incidents linked to the insurgency.
Nearly 30 of them were US nationals.


The United States leads the counterinsurgency and reconstruction
effort in Afghanistan, which it invaded after the Taliban
government's failure to hand over Al-Qaeda leaders in the wake of
the September 11 attacks.


The US has about 27,000 soldiers in Afghanistan with the
coalition and a separate NATO-led force.

