

Iran said on Sunday that it had banned Al-Jazeera from entering
parliament after the Gulf-based channel broadcast a talkshow
deemed to have insulted the most revered Shiite cleric in Iraq.


"Parliament has decided to prevent Al-Jazeera journalists from
entering until this network makes a formal apology for insulting
(Grand) Ayatollah Ali al- Sistani," said parliament speaker
Gholam Ali Hadad Adel.


The ban comes in response to questions posed by the host of a
talkshow on the Arabic satellite channel named "Without Borders"
who questioned the legitimacy of Sistani's leadership in Iraq.


"This is a plot of the enemies of Islam and Iraq and news
networks like Al- Jazeera committed this insult because of their
influential role," Hadad Adel said, according to the official
IRNA news agency.


The Iranian-born Sistani is Shiite Islam's leading cleric and
commands huge respect in Iran as well as Iraq. Last week he held
talks with Iran's top national security official, Ali Larijani,
in the Shiite holy city of Najaf.


The new furore about comments made about the grand ayatollah
recalls a similar controversy in December 2005 when Iraqi Shiites
protested against the channel after a talk show guest accused
Sistani of favouring the US occupation.


After that incident, Tehran summoned the ambassador of Qatar, the
country where the channel is based.


Al-Jazeera's Tehran bureau was shut down by the authorities in
April 2005 amid accusations of stirring up violence in its
coverage of clashes in the ethnic Arab majority southwestern oil
city of Ahvaz and only reopened 14 months later.

