

Britain's home secretary announced Sunday that he would resign
from the government within weeks, just as finance minister Gordon
Brown is likely to take over from Tony Blair as prime minister.


John Reid, an arch-Blairite who became interior minister last
year, also ruled out standing against Brown for the top job --
clearing the way for his fellow Scot to take over as premier.


"I have decided I will not put myself forward as a candidate,"
Reid told BBC television.


"I intend to vote for and support Gordon Brown, to put through
the changes to the Home Office, then to stand down -- as Tony
Blair goes -- from the Cabinet and to give maximum opportunity to
Gordon to bring in new people."


Reid, 59, said he would stand down "towards the end of June" and
insisted he had not jumped before he was pushed.


He said that Brown had "made clear to me there is a position in
his government for me but he understands and he accepts my
decision on this."


The Scot was the last remaining political heavyweight who
commentators thought could mount a serious challenge to Brown for
the leadership of the ruling Labour Party.


Last week, his predecessor as home secretary, Charles Clarke,
ruled out standing against Brown, saying such a move might cause
"bitter division" which would be "very, very damaging."


Clarke had labelled Brown a "control freak" with "psychological"
issues in an interview last year.


The 41-year-old Environment Secretary David Miliband, another key
Blair ally, announced he would not stand against Brown last
month.


Two left-wing lawmakers, Michael Meacher and John McDonnell, have
said they will mount challenges to Brown but they are highly
unlikely to secure sufficient support to mount a serious threat.


Reid has held seven jobs in Blair's cabinet in eight years,
including defence secretary and health secretary, and is seen by
commentators as a figure who Blair sends in to sort out troubled
departments.


A BBC television interview once infuriated the former communist,
who has a doctorate in economic history, by labelling him "an
all-purpose attack dog for the government."


Although Blair and Brown were once close political allies, they
reportedly fell out after Blair failed to honour a pledge to step
down as prime minister and make way for Brown after only a few
years in office.


Blair celebrated his 10th anniversary in power last week and is
expected to announce he is resigning as premier this week.


Commentators expect Brown will take over as prime minister at
some point in July, although no firm timetable has yet been
announced.

