

Belgian tennis star and former world number one Kim Clijsters has
announced her immediate retirement from the sport, according to a
statement on her personal website on Sunday.


Clijsters, who has won 34 WTA singles titles in her career
including the US Open in 2005, had already announced that this
would be her final year on the circuit.


On Sunday she said in the statement that battling injuries and
the constant effort to stay at the top had finally taken there
toll.


"It has been more than beautiful. But it's time to hang up my
racquet for good," said Clijsters, who had already announced this
season would be her last.


"After the fantastic and moving farewell in Antwerp all good
things must come to an end."


Clijsters lost in the Antwerp final to Frenchwoman Amelie
Mauresmo, but the Belgian said that concerns over injury and the
constant efforts to remain a top contender had led her to leave
the sport slightly earlier than planned.


"The constantly returning injuries, the laborious crawl out of
bed in the morning and the time it takes to warm up tired muscles
... make it all the more difficult to continue"


The 23-year-old Clijsters won her last WTA crown at Sydney in
January and was eliminated from the Warsaw WTA event this week in
the first round by Ukrainian qualifier Julia Vakulenko in
straight sets.


In early April 2006, Clijsters - who was formerly engaged to
Australian tennis ace Lleyton Hewitt - announced her engagement
to American pro basketball player Brian Lynch who now plays in
Belgium.


She is due to marry Lynch in July.


Clijsters said earlier this season she would be playing less as
her career wound down, and had announced she would not play in
two of the season's Grand Slams - Roland Garros and the US Open.


After her elimination from Warsaw Clijsters admitted that recent
injuries had already made up her mind over her future.


"I still like to play tennis but my injuries the last few years
have made me not enjoy it as much as before," she had said.


"Last year I was working with trainers but would still get injury
problems."

