

Thousands of cheering Nicolas Sarkozy supporters thronged a
central Paris square Sunday to celebrate his French presidential
election victory and wait for his triumphant arrival.


"We wanted to be here because it will be like France's World Cup
victory in 1998," said Luc Ramseyer, who with his wife travelled
hundreds of kilometres (miles) from his home in eastern France to
celebrate in the Place de la Concorde.


The crowd cheered wildly as Sarkozy's victory was announced on a
huge screen set up in the cobbled square that lies at the bottom
of the Champs Elysees avenue.


Immediately after his victory was confirmed, Sarkozy gave his
initial victory address at a concert hall packed with ecstatic
admirers.


"Now is the time for me to give back to France what France has
given to me," he told the wildly applauding crowd.


That speech was broadcast to the throngs gathered in the Place de
la Concorde, where the winning candidate was due to appear later
in the evening.


Sarkozy defeated the Socialist Segolene Royal. Earlier the crowd
had listened in polite silence as her concession speech was
broadcast on the giant screen.


"I voted for Sarkozy because France is in big difficulties and he
represents hope," said Daniel Fainte-Rose as he waited in the
square that lies between the Louvre museum and the Elysee palace
where the French president has his office.


"We've come here for the party and to show our support for the
candidate," said Marie-Yvonne Hartweg.


The Place de la Concorde was closed off to traffic and a large
police contingent ringed the perimeter, blocking access to the
Elysee palace.

