

Irish Prime Minister Bertie Ahern defended himself Sunday in a
row over his finances overshadowing the country's general
election campaign, saying he had never been involved in
"improper" dealings.


Ahern was speaking as media reported that the junior party in the
coalition government with his centre-right Fianna Fail party, the
Progressive Democrats (PDs), had decided not to pull out of the
arrangement.


Asked on Sky News television if he had never received any
improper payment, Ahern said: "Absolutely.


"Anything I ever gained or anything that I ever benefitted, which
was never much, was always done in proper circumstances and I
have never been involved in anything that was improper in a long
political career."


He added: "I've never misled people either."


Ireland is due to hold a general election on May 24. The PDs held
a meeting to consider their position Saturday because of new
information relating to Ahern's financial affairs.


PD senator Colm O'Gorman told national broadcaster RTE that his
party was in government on the basis that all relevant
information in the case was disclosed by Ahern to the party but
"there are suggestions now that that's not the case."


A complex row surrounding payments to Ahern by businessmen in the
early 1990s and his purchase of a house in 1997 when he was
finance minister has dogged the premier's campaign since the
election was called on April 29.


Ahern has said he will deal with the issues at a judicial
tribunal -- the Mahon Tribunal -- investigating payments to
politicians, which was suspended when the election was called.

