

The verdict in the trial of five Bulgarian nurses and a
Palestinian doctor accused of slandering Libyan police officers
by saying they were tortured will be delivered on May 27.


The decision was taken during a brief hearing on Sunday that saw
defence lawyers try unsuccessfully to get the case dismissed.


Sunday's hearing was attended by the doctor, Ashraf Ahmad Juma,
but not by the nurses. The six medics are currently on death row
after being convicted of injecting Libyan children with the HIV-
tainted blood at a hospital in Benghazi.


The five nurses -- Kristiana Valcheva, Nassia Nenova, Valia
Cherveniachka, Valentina Siropoulo and Snejana Dimitrova -- and
Juma were condemned to death in May 2004, in a verdict that was
upheld last December.


They had been convicted of deliberately injecting more than 400
Libyan children with HIV, which can cause AIDS.


However, a new trial for the infection allegations is due to open
later this month after the accused successfully appealed their
death sentences.


The accused said their "confessions" in the HIV trial were forced
from them under torture, including beatings, electric shocks and
being threatened with dogs.


If convicted of slandering the police, they face a maximum
penalty of three years in prison. The six have already been in
custody for eight years.


When the slander proceedings began on February 25, the defendants
repeated the allegation that their original confessions had been
extracted under torture.


The medics, largely viewed as scapegoats by the international
community, maintain their innocence based on testimony by foreign
health experts who said the AIDS epidemic in Libya's second city
of Benghazi was sparked by poor hygiene.


The six foreigners had also launched civil suits against 10
Libyan police officers, accusing them of torturing them. But a
Tripoli court acquitted the officers some of whom then accused
the nurses of slander.

