

Britain's Home Secretary, John Reid, announced Sunday that he
would resign from the government within weeks, just as finance
minister Gordon Brown is likely to take over from Tony Blair as
prime minister.


Reid, an arch-Blairite who became interior minister last year,
also ruled out standing against Brown for the top job -- clearing
the way for his fellow Scot to take over as premier.


"I have decided I will not put myself forward as a candidate,"
Reid told BBC television.


"I intend to vote for and support Gordon Brown, to put through
the changes to the Home Office, then to stand down -- as Tony
Blair goes -- from the Cabinet and to give maximum opportunity to
Gordon to bring in new people."


Reid, 59, was the final political heavyweight who commentators
thought could run against Brown.


Last week, his predecessor as home secretary, Charles Clarke,
ruled out standing against him, saying such a move might cause
"bitter division" which would be "very, very damaging."


Clarke had labelled Brown a "control freak" with "psychological"
issues in an interview last year.


Two left-wing lawmakers, Michael Meacher and John McDonnell, have
said they will mount challenges to Brown but they are highly
unlikely to secure sufficient support to mount a serious threat.


Reid has held seven jobs in Blair's cabinet in eight years,
including defence secretary and health secretary, and is seen by
commentators as a figure who Blair sends in to sort out troubled
departments.


A BBC television interview once infuriated the former communist,
who has a doctorate in economic history, by labelling him "an
all-purpose attack dog for the government."


Although Blair and Brown were once close political allies, they
reportedly fell out after Blair failed to honour a pledge to step
down as prime minister and make way for Brown after only a few
years in office.


Blair celebrated his 10th anniversary in power last week and is
expected to announce he is resigning as premier this week.


Commentators expect Brown will take over as Prime Minister at
some point in July, although no firm timetable has yet been
announced.

