

Russia accused the United States on Monday of obstructing
progress on the North Korean nuclear stand-off, saying Washington
had failed to free up frozen North Korean funds.


The US government is "not removing the obstacles to using this
money and this is creating problems. We cannot move forward as
long as the North Korean side says that it has not received the
money," Deputy Foreign Minister Alexander Losyukov said, as
quoted by the Interfax news agency.


Diplomatic efforts on North Korea should be focused not on
imposing deadlines on Pyongyang but on fulfilling previous
agreements, he added.


"We need to talk not about deadlines but about fulfilling these
agreements," he said.


A deal reached in February at six-party talks on North Korea's
atomic programme set April 14 as the deadline by which Pyongyang
was to shut down and seal its Yongbyon nuclear reactor, which
produces the raw material to make plutonium for nuclear weapons.


But the deadline slipped due to delays in freeing up 25 million
dollars (18.5 million euros) in North Korean funds that had been
frozen in a Macau bank at US instigation.


Washington says the bank funds were freed for collection last
week and there is no reason for further delay.


A North Korean foreign ministry official told AFP on Friday that
Pyongyang stands behind the February deal but will not act until
it sees the money from the Macau bank.


Russia, a veto-wielding permanent member of the United Nations
Security Council, has generally followed China's lead on North
Korea, while sharply criticising US foreign policy in general.


Beijing has urged the United States to be patient with Pyongang
on the promised shut-down.

