

US marine Mario Lozano, accused of "voluntary homicide" in the
March 2005 shooting death of Italian secret service agent Nicola
Calipari, goes on trial in absentia Tuesday in a Rome court.


The US military exonerated Lozano in the mysterious so-called
"friendly fire" case, a finding that has never been accepted by
the Italian government.


The incident occurred near Baghdad airport shortly after Calipari
-- who was number two in Italy's military intelligence hierarchy
-- obtained the release of journalist Giuliana Sgrena after she
spent a month in captivity in Iraq.


Both sides agree that Lozano fired on the car carrying Calipari
and Sgrena with Andrea Carpani, a fellow secret service officer,
at the wheel. Calipari was killed, while Sgrena and Carpani were
wounded.


Calipari, who shielded Sgrena during the shooting, was hailed as
a hero at home, awarded Italy's top bravery award and given a
state funeral attended by tens of thousands.


The United States insisted from the start that Lozano followed
the rules of engagement and that the Italians' car was speeding
towards the checkpoint when he opened fire.


Italian ballistics experts concluded that Carpani was driving at
a normal speed and that the US unit gave no warnings before
opening fire. The Italian probe also found that there were no
signposts warning of the checkpoint.


The US side maintains that the Italian authorities had informed
the US forces of the operation to free Sgrena and that there was
a breakdown in their communications when the Italians' car was
heading to the airport.


Rome has never accepted these explanations and refused to sign a
joint report, instead carrying out its own investigation, signed
by, among others, the pro-US then defence minister Antonio
Martino.


The Italians blame Calipari's death on the incompetence of tense
and inexperienced US soldiers patrolling the airport road. The
probe concluded that Lozano was probably frightened when he fired
on the three Italians.


He is charged with voluntary homicide in Calipari's death, as
well as two counts of intent to kill Sgrena and Carpani.


Sgrena insists that the maximum speed attained by the Toyota
Corolla that the three Italians were riding in was 65 kilometers
(40 miles) an hour, while the US report put the speed at 50 mph
(80 kph).


"Given the way they fired, it's difficult to think that anyone
could come out alive," she told AFP last week.


She said the Italian experts determined that 58 bullets hit the
car, of which 57 were aimed at the passengers and only one -- the
last one -- hit the engine.


For his part, Lozano broke two years of public silence earlier
this month when he told the New York Post that Sgrena's vehicle
was moving at speed towards his checkpoint.


"If you hesitate, you come home in a box -- and I didn't want to
come home in a box. I did what any soldier would do in my
position," Lozano told the newspaper last week.


"You have a warning line, you have a danger line, and you have a
kill line," he said. "Anyone inside 100 meters (yards) is already
in the danger zone ... and you've got to take them out."


Lozano's court-appointed lawyer Fabrizio Cardinali said he
expects Lozano to be acquitted.


"He followed the rules, he fired warning shots. You don't mess
around in a war zone."


Cardinali, who said the trial could last up to 18 months, added
that he was not planning to call any witnesses, but to cross-
examine those called by the prosecution.

