

Dutch electrical equipment maker Philips reported Monday that the
sale of microchip assets in Taiwan had helped boost net first-
quarter profit by 446.0 percent to 875 million euros (1.172
billion dollars).


The group also said it saw a bright future for its energy-saving
light bulbs.


In the first quarter of this year Philips, which is refocusing on
making medical equipment, made capital gains of 697 million euros
from the sale of its holding in Taiwan Semiconductor
Manufacturing Co (TSMC).


Net profit in the first quarter of last year had been 160 million
euros.


The outcome exceeded forecasts by analysts who had expected net
profit between 773 to 869 million euros, according to estimates
polled by Thomson Financial.


Sales fell by 2.6 percent to 5.991 billion euros from 6.155
billion euros.


The division making lighting equipment reported strong results
owing to sales of low-consumption light bulbs. Sales rose by 10.0
percent to 1.45 billion euros.


The company said that the lighting division was well placed to
benefit from growing understanding among consumers of the need to
reduce the consumption of enmergy.


Philips estimated that the replacement throughout the world of
standard light bulbs by its energy-saving producr would generate
huge cost and carbon savings.


Sales by the medical-equipment division fell by 1.0 percent to
1.45 billion euros owing to a fall of demand in the United
States.


Sales by the division making electrical goods for households fell
by 9.0 percent to 2.20 billion euros following the sale of the
division-making television screens.


A year ago, sales of television screens had risen sharply before
the World Cup football competition.

