

Australian share prices extended gains Monday, adding 1.01
percent for another record close as investors cheered a positive
lead from Wall Street on Friday and counted on continued strong
growth, dealers said.


They said solid volumes suggested the market could go higher
still on the back of a healthy economic performance and the view
that the global picture is positive overall despite some concerns
about the US outlook.


The major banks enjoyed a particularly strong day while the
market was also supported by heavyweight mining stocks on the
back of a sustained advance in metals prices, they added.


The benchmark SP/ASX 200 rose 61.9 points to a record 6,197.7 and
the broader All Ordinaries gained 59.8 points to 6,183.6, also a
new high.


Turnover was 1.89 billion shares worth 6.14 billion dollars (5.11
billion US), with gains leading falls 712 to 577 and 343 stocks
unchanged.


"Financial services seem to be all the rage at the moment and
along with the resources stocks, they are all very, very strong,"
Reynolds & Co private client advisor Michael Heffernan said.


The stage was now set for the Australian market to hit further
records before profit-taking surfaces, he said.


"It looks like we might have a couple good days at least, both in
terms of price rises and volumes," he said, noting that volumes
were good.


The major banks were all ahead -- National Australia Bank rose
0.83 dollars to a record close of 43.39 dollars, Commonwealth
Bank added 0.39 to 52.19, ANZ rose 0.42 to 30.75 and Westpac
gained 0.24 at 26.53.


BHP Billiton was up 0.54 or 1.81 percent at 30.39 while Rio Tinto
added 1.65 or 2.01 percent to 83.85.


Telstra slipped 0.03 to 4.78 while Coles Group fell 0.13 to
17.34, the only notable blue-chip companies with losses as the
takeover theme lost some of its attraction.


Qantas was unchanged at 5.38 and budget carrier Virgin Blue was
also steady at 2.72.


Paladin gained 0.37 or 3.69 percent at 10.40 while Summit added
0.19 or 3.18 percent to 6.16 Australian exploration company
Summit Resources recommended that shareholders accept a revised
1.0 billion US dollar takeover offer from the African-based
uranium miner.

