

Japanese share prices closed up 1.52 percent Monday on
expectations that exporters will continue to benefit from a weak
yen after world finance chiefs skirted the issue over the
weekend, dealers said.


They said that there had been concern that European ministers
might openly complain at the Group of Seven gathering about the
fall of the Japanese currency, which is positive for domestic
exporters.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
rose 264.35 points to 17,628.30.


The broader Nikkei-225 index of all first-section shares added
20.10 points or 1.18 percent to 1,725.60.


Gainers beat decliners 1,169 to 441, with 118 issues flat.


Volume fell to 1.80 billion shares from 2.03 billion Friday.


Shares rose as the euro hit a record high against the yen
following the G7 meeting, helping exporters to post gains.


"I think it can be said that the latest G7 gathering in
Washington accepted a weak yen, overall," said Yasunari Ueno, an
economist at Mizuho Securities.


However, export-oriented blue chips remained relatively top-heavy
because hopes that a soft yen will have a positive effect on
export earnings were countered by caution about the prospects for
the US economy, dealers said.


"Buying was mostly to cover the sizeable short (sell) positions
built last week," said Kazuhiro Takahashi, an equities manager at
Daiwa Securities SMBC.


"The Nikkei is likely to stay below 17,800 this week, as
investors fear that upcoming earnings announcements by US
companies may have an adverse impact on Wall Street."


Among exporters, Toyota Motor rose 70 yen or 0.98 percent to
7,220.


But Nissan Motor slipped one yen or 0.08 percent to 1,227 after
the Nikkei newspaper reported at the weekend that the company
would miss by at least one year its sales target of 4.2 million
vehicles for the fiscal year March 2009.


Sony gained 14 yen or 1.59 percent to 895 while Toshiba advanced
14 yen or 1.59 percent to 895.


Toshiba said it would sell its film production and distribution
unit, Toshiba Entertainment Inc, to Hakuhodo DY Media Partners
Inc. for an undisclosed sum. Hakuhodo DY closed up 140 yen or
1.73 percent at 8,250.


Sharp rose 85 yen or 3.65 percent to 2,415, despite an earthquake
Sunday having caused a brief suspension of operations at the
company's flagship plant for making liquid crystal display panels
in Kameyama.


Impact 21 shot up by 390 yen or 17.73 percent to 2,590 after Polo
Ralph Lauren announced Friday a friendly takeover offer bid at
2,600 yen per share.


On the foreign exchange market, the euro rose to a record high of
162.43 yen in early Tokyo trade before falling back to 161.68 by
afternoon, still well up from 161.32 late Friday in New York.


The dollar rose to 119.34 yen from 119.22 yen, while the euro was
at 1.3549 dollars after 1.3532, off an earlier two-year high of
1.3576.

