

The horror flick "Disturbia" gripped moviegoers at the North
American box-office this weekend, with 23 million dollars in
ticket sales, preliminary industry figures showed Sunday.


The serial-killer scare ousted skating comedy "Blades of Glory,"
which fell to second place with 14 million dollars after two
straight weeks at the top, starring Will Ferrell and Jon Heder as
a pair of madcap male ice skaters who enter a couples
competition.


"Meet the Robinsons," a Disney computer-animated feature about a
child orphan inventor and his saga to save the future, took third
place with 12.1 million dollars in North American theaters,
according to box-office tracker Exhibitor Relations.


The thriller "Perfect Stranger" starring beauty idol Halle Berry
debuted in fourth place with 11.5 million.


"Are We Done Yet?," a family comedy featuring rapper Ice Cube,
took the fifth spot with 9.2 million dollars.


"Pathfinder," the tale of a Viking boy left behind in battle and
raised by Native Americans, opened in sixth place with 4.8
million.


The comedy "Wild Hogs," which portrays the bumbling motorcycle
road trip of a handful of middle-aged suburbanites, took seventh
place with 4.64 million.


The Biblical plague horror "The Reaping" starring Hilary Swank
snatched 4.6 million, while the Greek-Persian epic "300" pulled
in 4.3 million.


The much-hyped Quentin Tarantino blood-and-gore double feature
"Grindhouse" took 10th with 4.2 million.


The car racing story "Redline" opened in 11th place with four
million and the sniper thriller "Shooter" took 12th place with
3.1 million.


The top 12 films pulled in 99.6 million over the weekend, down
9.4 percent from a year earlier.

