

Turkey's parliament Monday began accepting candidacy applications
for the country's next president, officially kicking off the
electoral process for the vote next month.


Tensions have been running high over the possibility that Prime
Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, a conservative with an Islamist
political past, will run for the post, a prospect that has
sparked objections by secularists.


An estimated 500,000 people from across Turkey gathered in a mass
rally in Ankara Saturday against any aspirations that Erdogan may
have for the job.


Erdogan now describes himself as a "conservative democrat", but
the secular elite suspects he still has a secret Islamist agenda.


Presidential candidates have a 10-day period -- until midnight on
April 25 -- during which to submit their applications.


Erdogan, who is currently visiting Germany, has yet to say
whether he will run for president and has hinted that he could
wait until the end of that period before making an announcement.


Parliament elects the president for a single seven-year term, and
Erdogan's governing Justice and Development Party (AKP) holds a
comfortable majority of 353 of the single chamber's 550 seats.


This means that if he wants the job, Erdogan will get it,
probably not in the first two rounds of voting when a two-thirds
majority of 367 is required, but in a third or fourth round, when
a simple majority of 276 votes suffices.


The constitution calls for early general elections if lawmakers
are unable to elect a president in four rounds of voting.


Parliament has yet to finalize the schedule of the presidential
vote, but the first round of voting is expected on April 26 or
May 3, the Anatolia news agency said.


The mandate of outgoing president Ahmet Necdet Sezer, a staunchly
secular former judge, ends on May 16.


Along with largely ceremonial duties, the president has a one-
time right to reject bills passed by parliament and the final
word on appointing senior government officials.

