

Support for Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has topped 50
percent for the first time this year after a landmark visit by
China's premier, a survey said Monday.


Prime Minister Wen Jiabao last week became the first Chinese
leader to visit Japan in seven years, striking a conciliatory
tone on history issues that have long impeded relations between
the Asian powers.


Abe's approval rate jumped to 50.4 percent from 43.2 percent in
March, according to a survey by the Nippon Television Network
Corp.


His disapproval rate fell by 5.0 points to 34.0 percent,
according to the poll of 1,089 eligible voters across Japan.


It was the first time in four months that Abe's support has
topped 50 percent.


While the network did not give any factors for the rise, the poll
was taken just as Wen visited Japan for a summit with Abe.


Putting aside confrontation, the leaders agreed to seek
reconciliation on the problems between China and Japan including
bitter memories of the past.


Abe took office in September last year and quickly visited China
and South Korea, which had refused all summits with his
predecessor Junichiro Koizumi due to his visits to a
controversial war shrine.


Abe, despite a career as a hardliner on history issues, has
stayed strategically silent on whether he will visit the Yasukuni
shrine, which venerates war dead and war criminals alike.


Abe, who at 52 is Japan's youngest post-war premier, has since
watched his popularity plummet amid public perceptions he lacks
authority following repeated gaffes and scandals among aides.


He also faced criticism after the ruling party readmitted rebels
who were expelled in a reform drive by Koizumi, who enjoyed
strong poll numbers throughout his five years in office.

