

China Construction Bank (CCB), reported Monday a 1.65 percent
fall in 2006 net profit, pulled down by the absence of tax relief
that boosted the 2005 figures.


CCB, a state-owned commercial bank in China, reported a net
profit of 46.32 billion yuan (6.0 billion US) for 2006, down from
47.09 billion yuan a year earlier but it was within analysts
forecasts of 46-48 billion yuan.


Excluding the effect of the 2005 tax break, the bank's net profit
grew 18.02 percent last year.


Analysts have said that the effective tax rate that CCB came
under last year was almost double the 15 percent rate it fell
under in 2005. The bank had obtained tax relief in 2005 due to a
restructuring program.


Income tax expense for 2006 amounted to 19.4 billion yuan, up 135
percent from a year earlier due to an effective tax rate of 29.52
percent, the bank said in a statement.


Operating profit for 2006 stood at 151.59 billion yuan, up from
128.71 billion a year earlier.


CCB's chairman Guo Shuqing said the bank saw strong growth
overall last year, emerging as the largest provider of personal
and residential mortgage loans in mainland China.


Interest income rose to 215.19 billion yuan from 173.6 billion a
year earlier, while net interest income rose 20.4 percent to
140.37 billion yuan with the net interest margin expanding to
2.79 percent from 2.78 percent.


Looking forward, Guo said that China's financial sector will
become fully accessible to outside competitors while the economy
will continue to grow rapidly.


"We are well positioned to take full advantage of the enormous
development opportunities amid these challenges... We will
continue to enhance our service quality, promote business
transformation, accelerate financial innovation, and strive to
achieve a steady development," he said.

