

Hong Kong share prices closed 2.05 percent higher Monday led by
China Mobile and other blue chips on strong liquidity inflows
after another record high on China's A-share bourses, dealers
said.


They said hopes that China will let the yuan appreciate further
is leading to increased fund inflows into China and Hong Kong.


China Mobile was also supported by expectations that it will
report strong subscriber numbers for March and for the first
quarter.


The Hang Seng Index closed up 416.56 points at 20,757.53, off a
low of 20,489.91 and a high of 20,765.40. Turnover was heavy at
64.38 billion Hong Kong dollars (8.30 billion US).


"Telecom stocks, particularly China Mobile, led the gains as they
lagged the overall market previously and also because fund inflow
into the China region has been strong," said Kenny Tang,
associate director at Tung Tai Securities.


"The market looks forward to strong March subscriber figures from
China Mobile. Many also expect the company to report strong set
of results for the quarter in the coming weeks," he added.


China Mobile gained 4.05 at 75.20 and peer China Unicom was up
0.48 at 11.80.


"Many investors expect China Mobile to benefit from the
continuing shift of many telecom users in the mainland from fixed
lines to mobile," said Leo Yan, an analyst at CSC Securities.


Dealers said expectations that the yuan will appreciate further
is generally boosting interest in the China markets, with Hong
Kong also a major beneficiary.


The Shanghai Composite Index Monday closed up 78.17 points or
2.22 percent at 3,596.44, a fresh all-time finishing high.


Interest in ongoing initial public offerings is also providing
support to overall market sentiment, dealers added.


China CITIC Bank, which aims to raise some 5.4 billion US dollars
from a dual listing in Hong Kong and Shanghai, opened its retail
order book Monday. Tang of Tung Tai Securities said mainland
financials were mostly higher due to positive sentiment arising
from China CITIC Bank's IPO with ICBC up 0.03 at 4.32 and China
Life up 0.40 at 25.70.


China Construction Bank was up 0.07 at 4.71 after it reported a
slight fall in 2006 net profit to 46.32 billion yuan (6 billion
US) due to the absence of tax relief that had boosted its year-
earlier earnings.


The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index was up 157.53 points or
1.55 percent at 10,313.80.


Tang noted that Asian markets mostly tracked US stocks' gains on
Friday following tame US wholesale inflation data. Tang said the
data has raised hopes of an interest rate cut within the year and
helped boost property counters.


The property sub-index closed up 443.61 points or 1.82 percent to
24,796.82.


Cheung Kong rose 2.30 at 102.60 and Sun Hung Kai Properties was
up 1.05 at 93.50.


HSBC was up 2.20 at 142.90, Hang Seng Bank was up 1.30 at 113.20
and BOC Hong Kong dropped 0.02 at 19.38.

