

Four newcomers have been named in the New Zealand rugby league
squad to take on Australia in a one-off Test against Australia in
Brisbane on Friday.


No British-based New Zealanders were named and coach Brian
McClennan said he was unable to name a full strength squad at
this time of year.


"It's not easy for us but this is very much the beginning of a
project," he said.


Parramatta fullback Krisnan Inu was the most surprising selection
in the side, having only recently made his debut in the National
Rugby League (NRL) competition.


The 20-year-old joins three other debutants in Brisbane utility
Greg Eastwood and Warriors props Sam Rapira and Evarn Tuimavave
in the 19-man squad named Monday.


Inu takes the place of regular fullback Brent Webb of Leeds who
was unavailable because of the birth of his first child.


Others missing from the side who lost narrowly to the Kangaroos
in the Tri- Nations final last November are captain Ruben Wiki
and Nigel Vagana, who have both retired, and the unavailable
halfback Stacey Jones.


Shontayne Hape, Steve Matai, David Kidwell and Adam Blair were
unavilable through injury and Hull's Motu Tony was not picked.


On the plus side is the return of stars Benji Marshall and Sonny
Bill Williams, who both missed last year's Tri-Nations tournament
due to injury.


The final test team and captain will be named Tuesday.


New Zealand squad


Backs: Krisnan Inu (Parramatta), Manu Vatuvei (NZ Warriors), Paul
Whaturia (Wests Tigers), Iosia Soliola (Sydney Roosters), Jake
Webster (Gold Coast), Benji Marshall (Tigers), Ben Roberts
(Canterbury Bulldogs).


Forwards: Roy Asotasi (South Sydney), Dene Halatau (Tigers),
David Faiumu (North Queensland), Nathan Cayless (Parramatta), Sam
Rapira (Warriors), Evarn Tuimavave (Warriors), Simon Mannering
(Warriors), Tony Puletua (Penrith), David Fa'alogo (Souths),
Sonny Bill Williams (Bulldogs), Frank Pritchard (Penrith), Greg
Eastwood (Brisbane).

