

A South Korean court on Monday sentenced a US citizen of Korean
origin to nine years in prison for spying for communist North
Korea, court officials said.


Michael Jang, 44, was convicted of violating the National
Security Law, the Seoul central district court said.


Jang had made secret trips to the North since 1989 when he joined
Pyongyang's ruling communist party, court officials said.


He also tried to organise a spy ring in the South, they said.


"It's inevitable to sternly punish Jang, who ... offered North
Korea political and military information collected here through
his accomplices, in light of the secrecy and danger of his
crime," read the ruling.


The court also handed down jail terms of four to six years to
four South Koreans, including the former deputy secretary general
of the minority Democratic Labor Party, for helping Jang with his
espionage.


Jang, a Seoul high school graduate, went to the United States in
1982 to join the American military, prosecution officials said.
He secured US citizenship later.


Prosecutors accused Jang of launching a spy network in South
Korea, but the court ruled Monday there was no evidence this had
actually been set up.


The two Koreas have remained technically at war since the
1950-1953 conflict ended in a fragile armistice, not a peace
treaty.


Relations have improved since a landmark summit in 2000 but Seoul
maintains its draconian anti-communist national security law.
Among other provisions, all South Koreans need government
approval for trips to North Korea or other contacts with
northerners.

