

As former world No. 1 Laura Davies and aspiring No. 1 Lorena
Ochoa faltered, American Brittany Lincicome seized her chance to
capture the 2.6 million-dollar LPGA Ginn Open.


Lincicome, 20, held on through weather delays and brutal winds to
card an even par 72 for 10-under 278 and a one-shot victory over
Ochoa.


Davies, winner of more than 60 career titles worldwide, finished
with a 79 for 281 for third place.


England's Davies and Mexico's Ochoa had shared the lead after
every round and through much of Sunday's wind-whipped fourth
round at the Reunion resort.


Ochoa, last year's LPGA player of the year, could have overtaken
Annika Sorenstam atop the world rankings with a victory here.


Ochoa dropped four shots in four holes with a double-bogey at 13
and bogeys at 15 and 16, leaving her tied with Lincicome one shot
behind Davies heading to the 17th.


It was there that Davies' chance at her first US victory since
2001 slipped through her fingers, with a double bogey that
dropped her one shot behind her rivals.


All three failed to find the fairway at 18, but Lincicome made
the best recovery. Davies' bid to blast out of a bunker and onto
the green backfired, literally, when she failed to get enough
loft to get over the bunker lip.


Ochoa, meanwhile, was in the left rough off the tee and a bunker
with her second shot. Her third shot rolled back into the fringe,
while Lincicome managed to get her second shot from the rough to
the back of the green.


Lincicome barely missed her par attempt but a closing bogey was
good enough as Ochoa wound up with a double-bogey and Davies a
disappointing triple-bogey finish.


Lincicome, who started the day four shots behind Davies and
Ochoa, claimed her second career victory and booked a berth in
the season-ending LPGA playoffs.

