

Taiwan is performing a computerised military exercise which for
the first time focuses on attacking a Chinese aircraft carrier,
it was reported Monday.


The scenario of a five-day drill -- part of military manoeuvres
codenamed "Han Kuang 23" -- is that in 2012 the People's
Liberation Army (PLA) launch a blitz on the island after they
acquire their first aircraft carrier, the Taipei-based China
Times reported.


The defense ministry declined to comment on the report.


In the drill beginning Monday, the Taiwanese navy armed with
home-made "Hsiungfeng II" ship-to-ship missiles and the improved
version of supersonic "Hsiungfeng III" missiles is to simulate
launching its arsenal against a Chinese aircraft carrier, the
report said.


The Taiwan air force's F-16 fighters would also simulate attacks
on the carrier using US-made Harpoon missiles, it said.


The report also said the former commander-in-chief of US Pacific
Command, Dennis Blair, would witness the drill.


China has stepped up its cross-strait combat readiness and
modernised its navy in recent years.


China's PLA staged a series of live-fire war games near Taiwan
and lobbed ballistic missiles into the shipping lanes off the
island's two major harbours to scare Taiwanese voters into not
re-electing then president Lee Teng-hui for a second term during
the 1995-96 missile crisis.


The sabre-rattling did not die down until Washington sent two
battle carrier groups to waters near Taiwan in a clear message to
Beijing not to take military action against the island that China
regards as part of its territory.


Tensions between Taiwan and mainland China have escalated since
independence- leaning Chen Shui-bian was elected president in
2000. He was re-elected in 2004.


China has repeatedly threatened to invade the island should it
declare formal independence.

