

President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad on Monday vowed that Iran would
"resist to the end" in the standoff with Western powers over the
country's controversial nuclear drive.


"The Iranian people will resist until the end on acquiring their
rights and will not shift an inch," Ahmadinejad said in a speech
in the southern city of Shiraz broadcast live on state
television.


"The Iranian nation will not be dissuaded in its drive and the
Iranian nation is standing united on this," he told thousands of
cheering people gathered in a sports stadium for the rally.


Ahmadinejad's remarks appear to confirm that Iran has no
intention of yielding to international demands that it suspend
uranium enrichment work, a process the West fears could be used
to make nuclear weapons.


"On the nuclear issue, the Iranian people will stand firm to
acquire all their rights, will continue solidly to reach the
summits of perfection and will raise their fists to insist on
their rights," he told the crowd.


In a typically pugnacious speech -- his first such public address
since the crisis with Britain over the 15 captured navy personnel
-- Ahmadinejad also warned world powers not to misuse the UN
Security Council.


"Do not misue the international organisations that you yourself
have built. You cannot create a crack in the will of the Iranian
people.


"Give up your bullying methods! Otherwise rest assured that you
will lose and you will impose great losses on your nations. What
did you gain in Iraq, what did you gain in Palestine and
Lebanon?" he asked.


The UN Security Council has already imposed two sets of sanctions
on Iran over its refusal to suspend uranium enrichment, and the
Islamic republic faces further punitive measures if it does not
comply.


"Follow the path of justice and improve your relations with
others," Ahmadinejad admonished the Western powers.

