

Radical Shiite cleric Moqtada al-Sadr's political movement
formally declared its withdrawal from Iraq's beleaguered ruling
coalition on Monday at a Baghdad news conference.


Lawmaker Nassar al-Rubaie, flanked by allies from Sadr's
32-strong parliamentary bloc, said the group was pulling out of
Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki's unity government to push its
demands for a withdrawal of US troops.


Rubaie read a statement which he said had been issued by Sadr,
who has not himself appeared publicly since last year.


"Considering the public interest, we found that it was necessary
to issue an order to the ministers of the Sadr bloc to
immediately withdraw from the Iraqi government," the statement
said.


"The six ministries shall be handed over to the government
itself, hoping that this government would give these
responsibilities to independent bodies who wish to serve the
interests of the people and the country."


Rubaie said the group had come to the decision after Maliki
ignored the demands of Shiite protesters who demonstrated last
week in support of Sadr and demanded a timetable for US troop
withdrawal.


"The main reasons are the prime minister's lack of response to
the demands of nearly one million people in Najaf asking for the
withdrawal of US forces and the deterioration in security and
services," Rubaie told reporters.


On April 9, a rally organised by the group saw huge crowds of
Shiites gather in the holy city of Najaf to demand the withdrawal
of foreign troops from the war- ravaged country.


Estimates of the total size of the demonstration varied widely,
with the US military reporting that 15,000 turned up while Iraqi
officials claimed hundreds of thousands took to the streets.


Maliki has steadfastly refused to offer any timetable for
withdrawal of foreign troops from Iraq, saying any decision on
the departure of US-led forces will be guided by the security
situation on the ground.

