

Muslim separatists in Indian-run Kashmir said Monday they would
boycott a government-organised meeting this month on the revolt-
hit province, saying talks would be a "futile exercise."


The so-called "Kashmir roundtable" is due to be held in New Delhi
on April 24, the third such meeting aimed at easing tensions in
the revolt-hit state which is divided between India and Pakistan.


"It is a futile exercise. We will only take part in trilateral
talks involving India, Pakistan and Kashmiris," prominent
hardline separatist Masarat Alam told AFP.


The first two meetings last year were attended by pro-Indian
parties only  with those opposed to Indian rule in Kashmir
staying away.


He argued that bilateral talks between New Delhi and Kashmiri
parties -- an idea of Prime Minister Manmohan Singh -- will not
resolve the dispute as Pakistan was also an "important party" in
the dispute.


Nuclear-armed rivals India and Pakistan hold Kashmir in parts but
claim it in full. They have fought two of their three wars over
the scenic region since getting independence from Britain in
1947.


The roundtable process is different from a "composite dialogue"
launched by the two nations in January 2004.


Moderate separatists have held talks with India in the past,
although sources said they were also likely to boycott the April
24 meeting and were meeting Monday to discuss the issue.


The insurgency in Kashmir was launched in 1989 and has left more
than 42,000 people dead by an official count. Human rights groups
put the toll at 70,000, including 10,000 people who have
disappeared and are presumed dead.

