

Chinese share prices jumped 2.22 percent to a new closing high
Monday on strong fund inflows, due partly to a rising yuan, and
with the banks and power generators favored, dealers said.


Nearly 60 companies closed up by their daily 10 percent limit.


Dealers said solid corporate results are the latest theme to
provide support while the yuan's slow but steady advance makes
Chinese assets more attractive and underpins the gains.


The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index, which covers both A- and
B-shares, added 78.17 points at 3,596.44 on turnover of 145.54
billion yuan (18.83 billion dollars).


The Shanghai A-share Index was up 82.15 points or 2.22 percent at
3,780.61 on turnover of 144.72 billion yuan and the Shenzhen
A-share Index rose 27.04 points or 2.72 percent at 1,019.98, also
a fresh record, on turnover of 76.73 billion yuan.


The central bank set the yuan central parity rate at 7.7220 to
the dollar, the highest level yet since the July 2005 revaluation
of the Chinese currency.


"The market was boosted by solid corporate results announced by
major blue chips and the strong yuan," said Xu Ming, an analyst
at Shiji Investment.


Dealers said they see every reason for the advance to continue in
the near future.


"In the short run, as fresh capital continues flowing in and more
blue chips announce their first-quarter results, the bullish
trend will likely be sustained," said Zeng Bo, an analyst at
Changjiang Securities.


Banks posted solid gains on hopes for robust profits, with many
of the companies expected to report a doubling of earnings,
dealers said.


China Merchants Bank was up 1.40 yuan or 7.44 percent at 20.21
ahead of its 2006 results, due later Monday while Shanghai Pudong
Development Bank was up 0.86 yuan or 2.88 percent at 30.70.


Power stocks were another strong feature, with Guiguan Electric
Power up 0.78 yuan or 6.75 percent at 12.33 as China Yangtze
Power added 0.26 yuan or 1.92 percent at 13.83.


Sinopec was up 0.04 yuan or 0.34 percent at 11.78 after reporting
a more than doubling of net profit in the first quarter.


The Shanghai B-share Index was up 4.45 points or 2.34 percent at
194.77 on turnover of 816.32 million US dollars and the Shenzhen
B-share Index added 7.79 points or 1.42 percent at 554.91, a
fresh all-time high, on turnover of 680.17 million Hong Kong
dollars (87.99 million US dollars).

