

Japanese share prices jumped 1.67 percent in morning trade Monday
after Group of Seven finance ministers made no mention of the
weakness of the yen at their weekend meeting, dealers said.


They said that there had been concern that European ministers
might openly complain about the fall of the Japanese currency,
which is positive for domestic exporters.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
rose 290.02 points to 17,653.97 by the lunch break.


The broader Nikkei-225 index of all first-section shares added
21.12 points or 1.24 percent to 1,726.62.


Gainers beat decliners 1,290 to 334, with 98 stocks flat.


Volume was 866 million shares, down from 927 million on Friday
morning.


Shares rose as the euro hit a record high against the yen
following the G7 meeting, with exporters getting some help from
the lead.


"Investors moved to cover short (sell) positions ... because a
clearer prospect of a weak yen heartened them," said Kazuhiro
Takahashi, an equities official at Daiwa Securities SMBC.


At the same time, gains were relatively limited because of
caution about the US economy and the outlook for Japanese
corporations, he added.


Export-oriented shares were mostly higher although they
underperformed the key indices.


Toyota Motor was up 40 yen or 0.56 percent at 7,190 and Nissan
Motor up three yen or 0.24 percent at 1,231.


Sony rose 30 yen or 0.46 percent to 6,540.


Toshiba advanced 11 yen or 1.25 percent to 892 after the Nikkei
newspaper reported that the company had decided to sell
subsidiary Toshiba Entertainment Inc to advertising agency
Hakuhodo DY Holdings Inc for an undisclosed amount.


Shares in companies that manufacture chip-making equipment were
in favour, with Advantest up 170 yen or 3.14 percent to 5,580 and
Tokyo Electron gaining 150 yen or 1.77 percent to 8,610.


Impact 21 shot up 385 yen or 17.5 percent to 2,585 after Polo
Ralph Lauren announced Friday a friendly takeover offer of 2,600
yen per share.

