

Thousands of Iraqis protested on Monday in the unruly southern
oil city of Basra to demand the resignation of a provincial
governor whom they accuse of corruption.


A large crowd of men, women and children gathered in front of the
Grand Basra mosque in the heart of Iraq's second largest city
under the banner of a new movement called Jamahir al-Basra
(People of Basra).


Governor Mohammed al-Waeli accuses the group of being a front for
his political foes -- including radical cleric Moqtada al-Sadr's
Mahdi Army militia -- and the protest movement has raised tension
in the city.


"We reject any corrupt despot who disrespects the masses," said
one banner, while another read "The masses of Basra demand the
resignation of Governor Mohammed Musbah al-Waeli".


Waeli is a member of the Shiite Al-Fadhila Islamic party which is
the leading political force in Basra, but less important
nationally, holding only  15 seats in the 275-member Iraqi
parliament.


In Basra, Fadhila is facing rising opposition from other Shiite
groups such as Sadr's movement and the powerful Supreme Council
of Islamic Revolution in Iraq (SCIRI).


"The governor must resign and take responsibility for the
deterioration of the situation in the city," protester Ali Jaber,
27, said.


Ahmed Salam, an employee of the Southern Oil Company, called the
governor "a misfit" who is unacceptable to the people of Basra.


The protest was held amid tight security organised by the Iraqi
army and police, while the British military said it was also
closely watching the event.


"We would like to see it go off peacefully," said spokesman
Lieutenant Colonel Kevin Stratford-Wright, adding that coalition
troops would "intervene only if we have to."


British troops based in southern Iraq come under almost daily
attack from Shiite armed groups battling for control of the
region's rich oil fields.

