

The euro jumped to a fresh all-time high against the yen in Asian
trade on Monday after Group of Seven finance chiefs avoided
specific mention of the sliding Japanese currency, dealers said.


They said the European single currency also hit fresh two-year
highs against the dollar amid concerns about slowing US economic
growth as well as the prospects for another interest rate rise in
the eurozone.


The euro rose to as high as 162.43 yen in early Tokyo trade
before falling back to 161.68 by afternoon, still well up from
161.32 late Friday in New York.


The euro was at 1.3549 dollars after 1.3532, off an earlier two-
year high of 1.3576. The dollar rose to 119.34 yen from 119.22
yen.


"Players took the G7 statement as a lead to sell the yen against
the euro," said Hideaki Inoue, chief manager of forex trading at
Mitsubishi UJF Trust and Banking Corp.


Finance ministers and central bank governors from the seven top
industrialised nations warned at their weekend meeting in
Washington that excessive volatility on foreign exchange markets
was "undesirable."


But the G7 refrained from commenting on the weakness of the yen,
a trend that has unsettled eurozone officials who fear it will
erode eurozone export earnings and dampen growth.


The ministers instead reiterated calls on China to allow the yuan
to appreciate more rapidly.


The euro was also strong against the US currency and its December
2004 all-time high of 1.3666 dollars was now in players' sights,
Inoue said.


The market is paying close attention to US economic indicators to
be released this week, including consumer prices, housing starts
and industrial output, dealers said.


"Friday's unexpected fall in the US trade deficit did not provide
much, if any, boost to the dollar," noted National Australia Bank
strategist John Kyriakopoulos.


"As such, (Monday's) US retail sales and the National Association
of Home Builders housing market index will need to be upbeat to
overcome negative dollar sentiment," he added.


The euro got another boost last week when European Central Bank
chief Jean- Claude Trichet indicated that the central bank was
ready to raise eurozone borrowing costs to 4.0 percent in June,
dealers said.


The dollar fell to 1.5138 Singapore dollars from 1.5168 in late
Asian trade Friday, to 47.84 Philippine pesos from 47.94 and to
32.63 Thai baht from 32.65.


It declined to 928.95 South Korean won from 930.10 and to 9,098
Indonesian rupiah from 9,107 but rose to 33.144 Taiwan dollars
from 33.093.

