

Human Rights Watch said on Monday that Uzbek authorities had
withdrawn accreditation from its Tashkent representative, making
it illegal for the organization to continue to operate there.


Uzbekistan's justice ministry had told the head of the rights
group's Tashkent office, Andrea Berg, of the decision, saying it
was refusing to renew her accreditation because she had "exceeded
her authority" and "worked outside the office charter," HRW said
in a statement.


Without accredited staff, HRW cannot legally work in the country,
the statement said.


"Human Rights Watch is one of the last international
organizations left in Uzbekistan and now the government is trying
to silence us," the organization's regional director, Holly
Cartner, said in the statement.


The New York-based rights group linked the withdrawal to a
forthcoming decision by the European Union on whether to maintain
sanctions imposed in response to the quashing of an uprising in
Andijan province in 2005.


Rights groups said that hundreds of people were shot dead in
Andijan, although Uzbek authorities said that 187 people were
killed and blamed Islamist insurgents for the unrest.


Since then the government has cracked down on non-governmental
organizations and at least 15 human rights defenders are in
prison on politically motivated charges, HRW said.


While some EU countries would like to drop the sanctions,
Tashkent's recent actions are not signs of progress but "a direct
result of the EU soft-peddling on Uzbekistan's poor record," HRW
said.

