

British right-of-centre daily The Times declared on Monday that
right-wing French presidential candidate Nicolas Sarkozy should
enter the second round of voting with a strong lead because he
represents France's "best hope."


Despite what the newspaper described as Sarkozy's "transparent
and not wholly credible" lurch to the right to attempt to wrest
voters from far right candidate Jean Marie Le Pen, it said
Sarkozy "remains, by far, the more convincing candidate."


In an editorial titled, "Chance for France: Sarkozy remains the
best hope for fundamental reform," the newspaper said he
"understands the need to repair relations with America, tackle
the extremism and alienation of immigrant ghettos, cut taxes and
get a sluggish economy moving."


"He deserves to stride into the second round with a commanding
lead."


It acknowledged, however, that part of Sarkozy's appeal was
"because of the weakness of his rivals."


The paper described socialist Segolene Royal as "an erratic
lightweight, an incoherent debater and an old-fashioned left-
winger with little understanding of how cliched and dogmatic
socialism has failed the country in the past."


It noted, though, that Royal had the "glamour, freshness and
courage of being the first serious woman candidate," and said
that if she could make it past the first round of voting on April
22, "her faltering campaign may take on a new dynamism and
legitimacy."


As for Francois Bayrou, the centrist candidate, The Times said he
was a "bland figure, who may benefit from visceral suspicion of
the other two but who is stuck with old ideas on state
intervention and is vague about how he would form a government
from such a narrow political base."

