

Afghan authorities on Monday blamed Taliban militants for
spreading a rumour that a deadly virus is being transmitted via
mobile telephones.


The rumour, which raced like wildfire late Sunday among the
country's estimated two million cellphone users, said that anyone
answering calls from certain numbers or codes would contract a
fatal disease.


"I find it necessary to assure the people that the rumour
spreading around the city is absolute nonsense -- it's baseless,"
interior ministry spokesman Zemarai Bashary told a news
conference.


"It's the work of the enemy," said Bashary, using the
government's usual term for Islamist insurgents led by the
Taliban, adding that they were trying to cause panic in the war-
weary nation.


"There are some numbers which contain the virus. As soon as you
answer your phone blood comes out of your mouth, nose and ears
and you die," said Kabul resident Mohammad Akter, who said he was
told about the virus by a friend.


With more than 70 percent of Afghanistan's people receiving
little or no education, rumours and superstitions have been used
previously as political and military tools.


False claims that the Taliban were equipped with special weapons
which made their opponents start laughing and drop their weapons
spread fast in the early 1990s.


The interior ministry said it was investigating the source of the
latest story.


Officials in neighbouring Pakistan moved to calm similar fears in
their own country last week.


State media quoted the head of the Pakistan Telecommunication
Authority as saying on Saturday that it was "scientifically and
technically" not possible to transmit a virus to humans from a
mobile.

