

Germany, Europe's biggest economy, is still only at the beginning
of its current upturn, Bundesbank President Axel Weber said in a
newspaper interview published on Monday, hinting that the central
bank might upgrade its growth forecast for the current year.


"The entry into the first quarter was very favourable, so there
is a possibility that we will upgrade our forecast," Weber told
the daily Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung.


So far, the Bundesbank has been pencilling in gross domestic
product (GDP) growth of around 1.75 percent for 2007 and 2.0
percent for 2008.


The government, too, has hinted that it might similarly raise its
2007 growth forecast from 1.7 percent to at least 2.0 percent.


"There are some indications that Germany is still only at the
beginning of an upturn that looks set to continue in the coming
years," Weber told the newspaper.


The eurozone's biggest economy was in a traditional cyclical
upturn, with the strong export performance of past years now
feeding through to investment, he said.


"At the end of last year, companies said they were investing to
increase capacity," Weber said.


And private consumption could similarly start contributing to
growth from the middle of the year, as well, the central bank
chief continued.


That should be the case once the so-called VAT effect had faded,
he argued, referring to a three-percentage-point increase in
value-added or sales tax (VAT), which came into effect at the
start of this year and which persuaded consumers to bring forward
big-ticket purchases to the end of 2006.


Recent rises in oil prices had been almost wholly offset by the
rise in the value of the euro against the dollar, limiting the
negative economic effects, Weber said.


And the economic slowdown in the United States would not harm
German exports, too much, given the growing importance of dynamic
economies such as China and Arab states, he argued.

