

Residents of the small Kansas town of Greensburg prayed for
survivors Sunday after a giant tornado virtually wiped out their
community, killing at least nine people and injuring more than 60
others.


Six people were killed in Greensburg, Kansas, after the storm
made a direct hit on the small prairie town late Friday, said
City Administrator Steve Hewitt.


Some 30 people were pulled from the rubble of Kiowa County
Memorial Hospital in Greensburg Saturday as the storm ripped
homes off their foundations and even damaged below-ground
shelters, according to reports.


"It is no understatement or overstatement to say that this town
has been wiped off the face of the earth," Senator Pat Roberts,
who toured the area on ground and from the air with other Kansas
lawmakers, told CNN.


"This is just as bad as it gets."


Three other people were killed near Greensburg, officials and
media said, while scores were reported injured and dozens
hospitalized, some in critical condition.


President George W. Bush spoke by telephone with Kansas Governor
Kathleen Sebelius and offered any additional federal help that
her state might need, an administration official told reporters,
requesting anonymity.


"The president's thoughts and prayers are with the people of
Greensburg and all those who suffered loss and injury," David
Almacy, a White House spokesman, said in a statement.


The US National Weather Service, meanwhile, warned of more severe
weather in the central plains region, and two new tornadoes were
reported in Nebraska to the north on Saturday.


A tornado warning was issued for a huge swath of land touching
seven states from northern Texas to South Dakota, the core of the
country's "Tornado Alley."


Weather service meteorologists warned of "an extremely dangerous
and life- threatening situation" for central Nebraska due to the
threat of severe tornadoes.


Hewitt said 90 percent of local homes and buildings were
destroyed in Greensburg, about 120 miles (200 kilometers) west of
Wichita, and communications in the area were severely disrupted.


"This is a huge catastrophe for this small town. My home's gone,
my staff's homes are gone," he said in a press conference.


The town's 1,400 residents were evacuated and ordered not to come
back as emergency squads continued to comb the wreckage with
tractors and dogs to see if any survivors remained.


"The search and rescue continues. We want to make sure we can
find everybody," Hewitt said.


Water, electric and gas utilities were all shut off and a curfew
was planned from 8:00 pm to 8:00 am on Sunday.


Television images showed the town virtually levelled, with roofs
shredded, branches sheared off trees and school buildings
wrecked.


"It sucked the door off of our storm shelter," Greensburg
resident Kevin Hillhouse told Wichita television KAKE.


Emergency workers said they were rushing to restore
communications sites after the storm wiped out both land line and
cellular phone services.


The massive wedge-shaped tornado, caught on film by self-styled
"storm chasers," struck at about 10:00 pm (0300 GMT Saturday).
One of the storm chasers, Darin Brunin, told CNN the storm was "a
mile (1.6 kilometer) wide."


People in the town said warning sirens went off about 20 minutes
beforehand, giving most a chance to get into storm cellars.


National weather reports put the tornado at between F3 (severe)
and F4 (devastating) on a scale of F0 to F5. An F4 storm carries
winds of 331-416 kilometers (207-260 miles) per hour.

