

Iran on Sunday minimised the extent of contacts with arch-enemy
the United States at a conference in Egypt on Iraq's security,
saying the only meeting between the two sides lasted just
minutes.


Contact between Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki and US
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice was restricted to Mottaki
saying a general "hello" to a large gathering of top diplomats,
foreign ministry spokesman Mohammad Ali Hosseini said.


The only talks at the meeting were between US Ambassador to Iraq
Ryan Crocker and Iranian Deputy Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi
but Hosseini played down the significance of even this rare
contact.


"It was a passing conversation about the agenda. I wonder if you
could call it a meeting? It was a passing and quick encounter
that lasted three minutes long," he said.


On Mottaki's contact with Rice, Hosseini emphasised: "There was
no negotiation at all."


"There was no special meeting. There was a luncheon hosted by the
Egyptian Foreign Minister and there were 30 foreign ministers. He
(Mottaki) entered the hall, said hello, and there were others
present too," he added.


Expectations had been high at the conference in the Red Sea
resort of Sharm el- Sheikh on Thursday and Friday that Mottaki
and Rice would hold the highest level bilateral contact between
the two sides since the United States cut relations in 1980.


But the lack of talks underlined the hostility between Washington
and Tehran, who remain at odds over the Iranian nuclear programme
and Iran's role in Iraq.


Hosseini reaffirmed that Iran was prepared to negotiate with its
arch-enemy but Washington had to make an official request first.


"There must be an official request for negotiations then we will
decide upon it," he said.

