

Officials in Vietnam on Sunday reported a bird flu outbreak on a
farm in central Nghe An province, and said its entire flock had
been culled as a precaution.


Test results at a regional animal health laboratory showed that
young ducks which started dying last Tuesday were positive for
the broad H5 strain of the virus.


Vietnam bird flu officials say they consider poultry to have been
infected with the deadly H5N1 strain of the virus if test
positive for H5 and also show bird flu symptoms.


The farm's 610 bird flock was culled Friday, and authorities have
applied measures to isolate and cleansify the local environment,
officials said.


Vietnam has vaccinated more than 100 million poultry since the
beginning of the year, although that did not include the ducks on
the farm in Nghe An.


The last reported bird flu outbreak was in early April when the
virus was found in a small farm in the southern most province of
Ca Mau.


Avian flu hit Vietnam from late 2003, resulting in the deaths of
42 people over the next two years and causing great losses to the
poultry industry.


The epidemic was later contained and no new human cases have been
reported since November 2005.


Scientists are particularly concerned about the H5N1 strain as
they fear it could mutate into a more infectious human form and
spark a flu pandemic which could kill millions of people
worldwide.


At least 172 people have been killed across the world by the
human form of bird flu since 2003, the World Health Organisation
said.

