

Malaysia's former prime minister Mahathir Mohamad on Sunday made
a rare appearance in court under heavy security to testify
against a suspect accused of attacking him last year.


Mahathir was assaulted with pepper spray as he was about to
address a crowd of some 1,500 people shortly after arriving in
eastern Kelantan state for a political tour last July.


Mahathir, who is locked in a bitter dispute with the new
government of Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi, arrived in
the court house guarded by at least 100 security officials.


The accused,  Nik Sapeia Nik Yusoff, 53, is a former state leader
of the ruling United Malays National Organisation (UMNO) which
Mahathir led for 22 years until he stepped down in October 2003.


Mahathir told the packed magistrate's court that he was informed
by his bodyguard that Nik Sapeia, a businessman, had allegedly
attacked him with the spray.


"I have never experienced this before. Initially I thought it was
tear gas fired by the police.


"As I entered the car (to address the crowd) I suddenly felt weak
and could not breath. My nose was clogged and I felt pain in my
throat and I could not speak," he said during his hour-long
testimony.


Mahathir also said that he knew Nik Sapeia, who was seated in the
dock, for almost 20 years and regarded him as a friend.


If convicted, Nik Sapeia could face a maximum three years' jail
or a fine, or both.


The Pan-Malaysia Islamic Party rules conservative Kelantan in
Malaysia's Muslim heartland, the only state that remains in its
control.


Mahathir has attacked the Abdullah administration for months,
levelling accusations of economic mismanagement, nepotism and
corruption.


The former leader has been accused of fomenting a split in UMNO
with his strident attacks on the new administration that have
raised fears of political instability.

