

Unknown gunmen have kidnapped a Russian woman in southern
Nigeria's oil capital Port Harcourt, the local police chief said
Sunday.


The woman, who works for a catering company, was abducted on
Saturday around 8:00 pm (1900 GMT) on Port Harcourt's new
Airforce Link Road, Commissionner Felix Ogbaudu said.


Local residents said the woman is married to a Nigerian from
another southern state, Akwa Ibom, and that she was going home
from work when she was snatched.


Over the past week alone 28 foreigners have been kidnapped in
oil-rich southern Nigeria, although eight of them were released
within hours of being seized.


Militant groups in the region do not normally kidnap women. Of
the scores of foreign hostages taken since the start of the year
none has been a woman.


Reports that for the first time ever a woman, a Filipina, had
been kidnapped in Port Harcourt in February sparked widespread
panic in the expatriate community there and caused many of the
few foreigners there with their wives to evacuate them.


Reports circulated that the woman, married to an Iranian, had
either jumped from a boat to escape her attackers and drowned or
that she had been killed.


The Philippines immigration authorities however, subsequently
said she had returned home to the Philippines via Frankfurt.


The armed groups who kidnap foreigners in the Niger Delta are a
mixture of well organized groups with political agendas who
strike at major government or oil company targets and criminal
gangs out to make ransom money.


Industry sources said the kidnappers of the Russian likely fell
into the second category.

