

US President George W. Bush is right to stay the course in Iraq,
Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong of staunch ally Singapore said in
remarks published Sunday.


Lee, who met Bush Friday during a trip to Washington, also voiced
support for the US leader's veto of a bill by the Democrat-
controlled House laying out a timeline for withdrawing US troops
from Iraq.


The bill linked the allocation of emergency funding for US troops
in Iraq to a plan for US combat troops to start coming home by
October 1, and for most of them to be withdrawn by March 2008.


Lee was quoted as saying in the Sunday Times that he had told
Bush "what he's doing is right."


"That in Iraq, America has to take a firm position and if it
leaves with its tail between its legs, it is going to be very
damaging for America, very damaging for all of its friends...
particularly in Southeast Asia, that we will all be greatly
alarmed because our security will be greatly affected."


Singapore has sent military deployments to help US troops in
Iraq, and Lee said strong US leadership was critical for
Southeast Asia.


"It's critical for us in Southeast Asia that America does that,"
Lee said.


"I thanked the president for the steadfastness and resolve with
which he's tackling the very complicated problems in the Middle
East and Iraq, as well as the Israel-Palestinian issue.


"And the president continues to give strong leadership on that
because it affects America's standing in Asia and the world, and
also the security environment in Asia because extremists, the
jihadists, watch carefully what's happening in the Middle East
and take heart, or lose heart, depending on what's happening."

