

Clashes that erupted during a pre-dawn raid Sunday by  US and
Iraqi forces in Baghdad's Shiite slum of Sadr City wounded at
least six people, according to the local Imam Ali hospital.


Iraqi police, as well as local eye witnesses, reported that there
was at least one fatality and up to eight people wounded, and
several houses were damaged in what they described as an "air
strike".


"We were sleeping and we heard aircraft, both helicopters and
planes, flying over us very low and there was lots of shooting so
we lay down on the ground," said local resident Abu Hammad,
adding that it took place around 3.00 am.


Residents said seven cars were destroyed and the two buildings
searched were severely damaged in the hour-long operation that
involved Iraqi special forces.


The raid appeared to be part of a series raids targeting members
of radical Shiite cleric Moqtada al-Sadr's powerful Mahdi Army
militia who have been implicated in the sectarian attacks on
Sunnis.


US military could not be reached for comment.


South of the capital, in the notorious "triangle of death", a
bomb exploded in a busy market place in the restive town of
Iskandiriyah, wounding 10 people, two of them seriously, said
police Lieutenant Karim al-Wael.


Late on Saturday, Captain Salam Zankana of the Kirkuk police told
AFP that three mortar shells crashed down on a southern
neighbourhood of the northern oil city killing one woman and
wounding four others, among them a child.


US and Iraqi forces are also conducting raids in the town of
Yathrib, in the Sunni heartland province of Salaheddin, in the
wake of Saturday's assassination of police Colonel Jabbar al-
Tamimi.


"Tamimi was visiting a water purification project in the Al-
Bujaili district in Yathrib when he was attacked by gunmen and
riddled with bullets," said a police officer, who requested
anonymity.


Ten suspects have been arrested, he added.

