

Fear and rejection of immigrants is rising in Italy where more
than 43 percent consider alien residents a threat to public
security, according to a poll published Sunday in the La
Repubblica daily.


The poll of 1,329 people, carried out last month by the Demetra
institute, showed that 43.2 percent of those questioned
considered immigrants "a threat to public order and the security
of individuals", up from 39.2 percent in a similar poll in July,
2005.


Meanwhile, 34.6 percent in the poll published Sunday agreed that
"immigrants represent a threat to our culture, our identity and
our religion," up from 26.6 percent in the 2005 poll.


Least trusted were immigrants originating from Arab countries,
with only 34.3 percent of those polled saying they had "much or
fair faith" in this group, followed by people originally from the
Balkans, who received a 42.7 percent confidence vote.


Most trusted were Eastern European immigrants, with 56.4 percent
of those polled saying they had faith in the group.


Only 41.5 percent in Sunday's poll meanwhile said they viewed
immigrants as a resource for the national economy, down from 46.9
percent in the 2005 survey.


La Repubblica however cautioned that the numbers hid disparities
in opinions between people of different ages and political
orientation.


"Young people show the greatest openness" of mind while "centre-
right voters appear the most worried about cultural integration
and security," the daily wrote in its analysis of the poll.


"Centre-left voters on the other hand recognise immigrants' role
as a resource in economic development and as a motivation for
cultural openness," the paper wrote.

