

India's cricket manager Ravi Shastri on Sunday went to the
defence of the country's star veterans, saying they are not
finished yet and raring to score big after their World Cup
disappointment.


Shastri also said the fans should give the seniors some time to
see for themselves what they were capable of.


"Sachin (Tendulkar) is hungry for runs. Just be patient with
Sachin and Virender Sehwag and (see) what they are capable of,"
he told a news conference on the eve of the team's departure to
Bangladesh, where they will play three one-dayers and two Tests.


The performance of the senior players came under scrutiny after
India bowed out of the World Cup in the first round, but the
national selectors persisted with them while announcing the squad
for the Bangladesh tour.


While Tendulkar and Sourav Ganguly were dropped from the one-day
side for the upcoming Bangladesh tour, they were picked for the
Tests. Virender Sehwag was retained only in the one-day side.


Shastri said the seniors deserved respect from the fans.


"Show respect for what they have done. They have played for 15
years. Just be patient, give them some time and you will see what
they are capable of.


"Please respect the guys for what they have done, they are not
finished yet," Shastri pleaded.


Shastri, appointed on an interim basis after Australian Greg
Chappell quit as coach last month, said he had been advising the
players to enjoy their game.


"What I did not like in the last six months was that the
cricketers were going through the motions like they were doing a
sort of a nine-to-five desk job.


"If you don't enjoy what you are doing, forget about winning."


Shastri, a former Indian captain, also said the players had left
behind the World Cup disappointment and were focused on the
Bangladesh tour.


"We have left behind what happened at the World Cup. The players
are now raring to give their best."

