

Carlos Boozer scored 35 points and the Utah Jazz regrouped in the
final six minutes to oust the Houston Rockets from the National
Basketball Association playoffs on Saturday.


After blowing a big lead, the Jazz pulled themselves together to
post a 103-99 victory in game seven of the Western Conference
first-round series, handing Houston superstar swingman Tracy
McGrady another agonizing postseason exit.


McGrady, a seven-time All-Star, has never advanced past the first
round in the postseason in six attempts.


The fifth-seeded Jazz moved past the first round for the first
time since 2002 and will play the surprising eighth-seeded Golden
State Warriors in the conference semi-finals that begin Monday in
Utah.


McGrady scored 29 points, matching the total of teammate Yao
Ming, but he managed just one basket in the final six minutes
after helping Houston rally from 16 points down to take an 88-83
lead with 6:09 to play.


With Houston trailing 75-67 after three periods, Yao led a 7-0
run to open the fourth quarter. But the Rockets could not pull
even until Rafer Alston banked a 3-pointer in to tie it at 80-80
with 8:38 to play.


Four free throws by Yao and back-to-back baskets by McGrady
helped the Rockets stretch the advantage to 88-83 on a short
jumper and seem poised to break it open, only to see the Jazz
storm back with an 8-0 run as Boozer sandwiched five points
around a 3-pointer by Andrei Kirilenko for a 91-88 lead with 4:15
to go.


After Yao tied it with a three-point play, Mehmet Okur sank a
3-pointer for a 94-91 lead with 3:23 left and buried another
3-pointer from almost the identical spot to make it 99-95 with
1:16 left.


Two free throws by Yao cut the deficit to 99-97 with 57 seconds
left. Okur missed consecutive 3-pointers, but the Jazz got the
offensive rebound both times and it paid off when Boozer
converted two foul shots with 19.9 to play.


McGrady drove for an uncontested layup with 9.9 seconds left to
get the deficit to 101-99, but the Rockets inexplicably failed to
foul until 1.7 seconds were left.


Kirilenko nailed both foul shots to clinch it as the home team
failed to win for the first time in the series.


The Western Conference semi-finals were to get underway on Sunday
when the second-seeded Phoenix Suns took on the third-seeded San
Antonio Spurs.


Phoenix beat the Los Angeles Lakers and the Spurs dismissed the
Denver Nuggets in the first round.

