

Taliban militants ambushed a police patrol in western
Afghanistan, killing eight policemen and losing at least four of
their own fighters, police said Sunday.


The fighting in the province of Farah erupted late Saturday after
dozens of Taliban rebels ambushed a police patrol, Farah police
chief Sayed Agha Saqeb said.


"Eight police were killed and two wounded," Saqeb said. About 17
rebels were believed killed and wounded during six hours of
fighting, but only four bodies were recovered from the
battlefield, he said.


"The fighting ceased when we sent reinforcements," Saqeb said.


Ministry of interior spokesman Zemarai Bashary confirmed the
attack.


Western Afghanistan has previously been comparatively free of
violence, with the Taliban-led insurgency most intense in the
south and southeast of the country.


The latest battle was in Farah's Bala Baluk district which has
seen a surge in Taliban activity this year.


Police in early April raided a religious school in the district
and arrested 22 people, alleging the madrassa was involved in
organising Taliban suicide attacks.


The school was being used as a "terrorist centre" and was
supported by Pakistani nationals and Arabs, police said.


In late February the nearby town of Bakwa was overrun by Taliban
fighters who were in control for less than 24 hours before Afghan
security forces drove them out.


Authorities detained the Bakwa district governor and his police
commander for alleged links with the Taliban.


A Taliban suicide bombing on a convoy delivering the new police
chief to his post on March 12 killed the officer and nine of his
men.


The neighbouring province of Herat, on the border with Iran, has
also seen an increase in unrest. US Special Forces and other
foreign and Afghan troops say they killed 136 Taliban fighters in
battles there last weekend.


Separate Afghan and UN reports say around 50 civilians, including
women and children, were also killed.

