

Street Sense, ridden by Calvin Borel and trained by Carl Nafzger,
won the Kentucky Derby here on Saturday, capturing the first leg
of US flat racing's Triple Crown.


Street Sense overtook Hard Spun in the final straight to win the
133rd running of the 1 1/4-mile race, which was attended by
Britain's Queen Elizabeth II.


Rallying from far back, Street Sense became the first colt to win
the Kentucky Derby after winning the Breeders' Cup Juvenile. He
also became the first 2-year- old champion from the previous
season to win the race since Spectacular Bid in 1979.


Hard Spun held on for second, followed by Curlin.


The victory put trainer Carl Nafzger back in the winner's circle
at Churchill Downs. Nafzger trained Ubridled, who won the Run for
the Roses in 1990.


Trainer Todd Pletcher, who saddled five starters in his bid to
finally break through for his first Triple Crown race victory,
instead fell to 0-15 in the Kentucky Derby.


The pretigious trio of races continues with the Preakness Stakes
in Maryland and concludes with the Belmont Stakes in New York.


Borel gave Street Sense a beautiful ride, bringing his mount up
from 19th - next-to-last in the 20-horse field midway through the
race.


He zoomed past Hard Spun en route to a 2 1/4-length victory that
immediately established him as the favorite for the Preakness in
two weeks.


Having won the Breeders' Cup Juvenile by 10 lengths last November
at Churchill Downs, his home track, Street Sense was sent off as
the favorite.


But Hard Spun, ridden by Mario Pino and trained by Larry Jones,
set the pace for the first three-quarters.


Curlin was also well back early. The lightly raced colt, trained
by Steve Asmussen and ridden by Robby Albarado, had been
undefeated in three career starts.

