

Justin Gatlin, the Olympic and World 100m champion who faces an
eight-year athletics ban for doping, turned out with other
National Football League hopefuls at the Tampa Bay Buccaneers
mini-camp.


Gatlin was one of 28 players attending the Buccaneers' three-day
rookie training camp this weekend on a tryout contract, according
to a story posted on the team's website.


Gatlin tested positive for elevated levels of testosterone at the
Kansas Relays in April of 2006. That was a month before he tied
Jamaican Asafa Powell's 100m world record of 9.77sec, a
performance that stands to be wiped out by the doping charge.


Gatlin, who has denied knowingly taking any banned performance-
enhancing substance, is apparently still interested in exploring
other opportunities in sports.


"If it can transfer to football, you have a real threat," Bucs
coach Jon Gruden said of Gatlin's athleticism. "If it can't, it
won't work. Here's a guy that really hasn't played college
football. He's played high school football, he's won the gold
medal and he wants to give this a shot. This is a good launching
pad, a good start for him to see how quickly he picks it up, how
natural it is and how far he has to go at the same time."


Gatlin, 25, has shown an interest in the NFL before. He was given
tryouts by the Houston Texans and Arizona Cardinals last year.


"I'm just working hard," Gatlin said. "I'm just out here
contributing, just taking a little time with the guys. I haven't
measured myself up against any of the guys. I'm just learning,
learning what these guys are doing, watching what they do and
trying to go out there and be the best that I can be."

