

Scotland's John Higgins will meet Mark Selby of England in the
World Snooker Championship final after they both completed close
victories on Saturday.


Higgins produced a stirring comeback against fellow Scot Stephen
Maguire.


Trailing 14-10 going into the final session at The Crucible in
Sheffield, former champion Higgins produced some scintillating
break-building to win the best of 33 semi-final 17-15.


In the other match, qualifier Selby kept his nerve in the 33rd
and deciding frame to complete a break of 65 which was enough to
ensure a 17-16 win over fellow Englishman Shaun Murphy.


"I don't know how I held myself together," the cool-headed Selby
told BBC television afterwards. "It was like a dream."


Higgins, who beat Ronnie O'Sullivan on his way to the semi-final,
compiled a high break of 133 but missed out on the opportunity of
a 147 maximum, ending up with 104.


Higgins revealed to the BBC how gruelling the match had been. He
said: "I'll be honest, it was absolutely mad out there,
especially in the last frame. But I'm just so delighted to win.


"I've never fought so hard to come through a match in my life. I
was just hanging onto Stephen's coat-tails for most of the match
because he was playing so well, making unbelievable pots."


The Scot also revealed his techniques for dealing with pressure
situations. He said: "I never thought, even at 14-10 down, that I
was out of it and I've been working on my positive thinking and
relaxation exercises to deal with situations like this."


In the other match, the tight and tense encounter saw Murphy give
himself a two- frame cushion at 16-14 after Selby missed a blue
but he held his nerve to win three frames in a row from then on
to take the match.

