

Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono was holding
meetings with his ministers ahead of the official announcement of
his new cabinet line up on Monday, an official said.


"Ministers that are on the way out and those assigned to new
posts will each receive a letter from the president today
(Sunday)," presidential spokesman Andi Malarangeng told ElShinta
radio.


"The president will announce the new line-up officially
tomorrow," he said.


Yudhoyono started summoning his ministers to his home for private
meetings on Saturday to reveal his cabinet reshuffle plans. The
series of meetings continued on Sunday afternoon.


"Today the president is calling in ministers who will keep their
jobs to give his evaluation on their performances," said
Malarangeng.


The meetings were arranged in groups of three to four ministers
and lasted about one hour. The army and police chiefs were also
among the officials to meet the president.


"The president is using this cabinet reshuffle momentum to
improve the cabinet's performance," Malarangeng said quoting the
president.


Politicians and analysts have been publicly calling for cabinet
changes in recent weeks, following a string of transport
disasters and allegations of corruption.


Yudhoyono first announced his plans to reshuffle his cabinet two
weeks ago, sparking wide speculation among political parties that
support his cabinet.


He carried out a minor reshuffle in December 2005, dismissing
three ministers, shifting three others, including his top economy
minister, and bringing in three new faces.


Yudhoyono came to power as Indonesia's first directly elected
president in 2004 and his term ends in 2009.

