

Malaysia on Sunday urged Myanmar to free democratic icon Aung San
Suu Kyi, three weeks before her latest term of house arrest comes
up for review.


Foreign Minister Syed Hamid told AFP that detaining the 61-year-
old Nobel Peace Prize winner was not a positive development for
the military regime.


"Our position has not changed. They (military-junta) should not
continue with her detention," he said.


"We think since they are continuing with the process of political
reconciliation, it is better that they release her rather than to
continue holding her."


The latest term of house arrest is up for review on May 27.


Myanmar has put Aung San Suu Kyi under house arrest at her
lakeside home in Yangon for most of the past 17 years.


Her latest period in detention began after a May 2003 attack on
her convoy by a junta-backed militia in the country's central
region.


She was thrown into prison after the assault but, following an
operation four months later, was allowed to return home -- again
under house arrest.


Malaysia, a member of the 10-member Association of Southeast
Asian Nations (ASEAN), had previously signalled the region was
frustrated with Myanmar, saying the military regime had snubbed
efforts to push for democracy.


Syed Hamid travelled to Yangon last March as an ASEAN envoy to
check on its claims that it was shifting towards democracy, but
he was was denied access to Aung San Suu Kyi.


Asked if Malaysia or ASEAN made any direct appeals recently to
Myanmar to free Aung San Suu Kyi, Syed Hamid said: "We have made
our position clear and repeatedly urged Myanmar authorities to
free her. This is a common ASEAN position."


Myanmar has been ruled by the military since 1962.


The junta has launched a reform road map but critics have
dismissed the process as a sham because it does not include Aung
San Suu Kyi's National League for Democracy, which won 1990
elections but was never allowed to rule.

