

The Ottawa Senators booked their berth in the National Hockey
League Eastern Conference finals on Saturday with a 3-2 victory
over the New Jersey Devils.


Antoine Vermette, Jason Spezza and Daniel Alfredsson scored in a
dominant second period as the Senators rallied for the win and a
four-games-to-one triumph in the best-of-seven second-round
playoff series.


In the next round the Senators will face either the the
Presidents' Trophy- winning Buffalo Sabres or the sixth-seeded
New York Rangers.


New Jersey can pack their bags not only for the summer, but also
for Newark, New Jersey, where they will open the Prudential
Center for the start of the 2007-08 season.


Among the Devils' memories from this building are three
successful Stanley Cup championship runs, including clinching
wins in 1995 and 2003.


With the Senators trailing 1-0 after the first period, Vermette,
Spezza and Alfredsson tallied in a span of just over 12 minutes
as the Ottawa played perhaps their best period of the season.


Vermette tied the game at 5:19, Spezza scored a power-play goal
at 12:06 and Alfredsson tallied at 17:28.


After winning the first five postseason contests in which they
scored first, the Devils got on the board first again in this one
at 6:59 of the first period. Scott Gomez grabbed his own rebound
off a tip-in attempt at the top of the crease and steered it
around the blocker side of netminder Ray Emery for his third goal
of the playoffs.


Gomez made things interesting with his second goal of the night,
roofing a shot from the right side of the crease following a
scramble in front with 40 seconds left in the game.

