

The Detroit Pistons let the Chicago Bulls know they aren't about
to be stampeded in the second round of the National Basketball
Association playoffs.


Chauncey Billups scored 20 points and Richard Hamilton also added
20 as the Pistons posted a 95-69 blowout victory over the Bulls
Saturday in game one of their Eastern Conference semi-final
series.


Rasheed Wallace and Tayshaun Prince each had 13 points and Jason
Maxiell added 12 off the bench for the Pistons, who improved to
11-0 in Eastern Conference semi-final openers dating to 1986-87.


The Pistons, who led by six after the first quarter, and 13 at
the end of both the second and third periods, controlled the game
after several first-half bursts which the Bulls were never able
to recover.


"It was important for us to set the tone," Pistons coach Flip
Saunders said. "We were aggressive offensively and defensively.
We did what we were supposed to do."


Chicago, which swept the defending NBA champion Miami Heat in
four games in an Eastern Conference first-round matchup, suffered
its largest playoff margin of defeat since being beaten by the
Cleveland Cavaliers 107-81 in game two of the 1992 conference
finals.


Three-pointers by Wallace, Hamilton and Prince vaulted Detroit to
a 79-57 lead with 10:03 remaining to give their club a
comfortable lead.


Billups connected on 7-of-14 from the floor for the Pistons, who
also shot 8-of-18 from 3-point range.


Detroit's margin of victory over the Bulls is the largest by the
Pistons in the playoff history of these two teams.


The previous high was a 22-point decision by Detroit, which beat
Chicago 101-79 in game three of the 1988 Eastern semi-finals.


Detroit capped an 11-2 spurt with a 3-pointer by Wallace to take
a 20-11 lead at the 5:21 mark in the first period. A basket by
Ben Wallace and subsequent free throws with 49 seconds left
helped the Bulls cut the lead to 29-23 at the end of the quarter.


Kirk Hinrich finished with 15 points for Chicago, but Ben Gordon,
who was the second leading postseason scorer (25.5 points) for
the Bulls entering this contest, added only seven points on
2-of-9 shooting from the floor as the Bulls shot just 33 percent.


Ben Wallace, the ex-Pistons center, had nine points and eight
rebounds for Chicago, which was outrebounded, 46-38, by Detroit.


"We didn't have intensity," said Bulls forward Luol Deng, who led
Chicago with 18 points on 7-of-16 shooting. "The way that we
started that game was not with a lot of energy. The Pistons came
out poised, got quick fouls on us and were more aggressive than
we were."


The second-seeded Cleveland Cavaliers face the sixth-seeded New
Jersey Nets in the other Eastern Conference semi-final series.


The Nets edged the third-seeded Toronto Raptors 98-97 to wrap up
their first- round series in six games on Friday.


The Cavaliers swept the Washington Wizards in the first round.

