

Spain's Supreme Court on Sunday banned a small party close to the
outlawed Basque separatist party Batasuna from taking part in
this month's local elections.


The court took a unanimous decision to ban the 133 lists formed
by the Action Nationalist Basque party (ANV) after a very long
deliberation, Spanish media reported.


Late Saturday the court had already banned hundreds of candidates
on supposedly apolitical "citizen lists" under the label
Abertzale Socialistak on the grounds that it was a front for
Batasuna.


Sunday's ruling against ANV overturned an earlier decision by the
country's national court which on April 28 allowed the party to
field candidates, having found that it did not have links with
Batasuna or the armed separatist movement ETA.


The ANV, set up in 1930, was one of the movements which founded
Batasuna in 1978, but had until recently been considered defunct,
politically inactive while still legal. Since it took steps to
put up candidates for the local polls, the government suspects it
has been infiltrated by Batasuna members.


Batasuna, which has been banned since 2003 for its links with
ETA, has been trying to get round the law to put up candidates in
the municipal and regional elections on May 27 in Basque country
and Navarra in the north of the country.


ETA violated a March 2006 ceasefire with a bombing in Madrid on
December 30, which killed two people and torpedoed months of
government attempts to inch towards talks on a negotiated
solution to the 38-year conflict.

