

Sri Lanka is to tax film producers who use foreign stars in a
move to protect its own movie market and combat cheaper imported
labour from India, an industry official said Sunday.


Domestic film makers who use foreign actors in a lead role will
have to pay 250,000 rupees (2,400 dollars) for every picture
made, starting this month, National Film Corporation Chairman
Asoka Serasinghe told AFP.


A foreign star in a supporting role will cost 150,000 rupees
(1,400 dollars), under the move aimed mainly at imports from
India which is the world's biggest producer of movies.


The taxes will not apply to films made jointly with overseas
producers or foreign movies produced in Sri Lanka, Serasinghe
said.


"We have many talented artistes, technicians here, but local
producers are bringing down Indians and depriving our people of
work," he said.


There are no official figures on locally produced films but
Indian actors and technicians are frequently hired because they
cost less and are thought to be more talented.


Local film makers have also fallen on hard times, losing audience
share to television, satellite TV and pirated Hollywood and
Bollywood movies.


Sri Lanka last year imposed a 750 dollar tax each time a foreign
blockbuster, drama or sitcom was shown, setting aside the money
to develop the island's ailing film industry.


Local TV stations air more than 1,500 movies - mainly in English,
Tamil and Hindi -- annually, according to industry watchers.


Although native Hindi speakers are virtually non-existent among
Sri Lanka's 19.5 million people, Hindi movies are often shown
with subtitles on local TV stations for the majority Sinhalese
and minority Tamil language viewers.

