

Bangkok's governor on Sunday urged security officials to be extra
vigilant after a small bomb exploded, injuring a man in the Thai
capital.


The blast hit a telephone booth late Saturday near the former
headquarters of deposed premier Thaksin Shinawatra's political
party and followed a similar attack last month.


Speaking ahead of a special security meeting of the army, police
and the Bangkok Metropolitan Administration (BMA), city governor
Apirak Kosayothin ordered all security forces to be on high
alert.


"All BMA officials must be strict in their security plans,
checking sensitive areas including telephone booths and garbage
bins, which is the joint job of the police and army," he said in
a statement.


Police Major General Patcharawat Wongsuwan, Thailand's deputy
police chief, said forensic tests were ongoing.


"It was a simple bomb. Anybody who went to technical college
could make it," he told reporters. "It aimed to cause a
disturbance."


He did not specify who might have planted the bomb.


Bangkok has been on high alert since a series of bombs killed
three and wounded more than 40 on New Year's Eve.


Thai authorities have since boosted security measures at
department stores, shopping malls, bus terminals, subway stations
and Bangkok's new international airport.


The army-installed government initially blamed the blasts on
factions in the military or police linked to former premier
Thaksin, who was ousted in a September coup.


However, some investigators said the blasts could be linked to
Islamic militants fighting to establish an independent Muslim
state in southern Thailand.


No one has yet been charged in connection with the bombings.


Last month a small bomb exploded in a telephone booth in front of
a Bangkok shopping centre on the northern outskirts of the city.
No one was injured, and police said it could have been related to
a business dispute.

