

Three people were killed when a French aircraft  from the
Multinational Force and Observers (MFO) mission crashed in
Egypt's northern Sinai region Sunday, an Egyptian security
official told AFP.


"Three people died in the crash," the official said on condition
of anonymity, without elaborating on the identity of the victims.


The MFO and French military sources said they had received
reports that a French transport aircraft belonging to the
peacekeeping force had crashed but did not immediately confirm
any casualties.


Egypt's civil aviation ministry confirmed the crash but said the
circumstances of the accident were not immediately clear as a
rescue team was still on its way to the site.


"Yes, unfortunately we have had reports of a plane crash. It was
a French aircraft carrying eight French crew members. There was
one other officer on board whose identity we are still trying to
get," the MFO director general's representative, Normand St.
Pierre, told AFP.


"It was a training mission and we lost touch with the plane
shortly after takeoff," he said.


The plane was heading from the northern Sinai airport of Al-Gurah
towards St. Catherine, further south.


"The aircraft is a twin engine transport plane which carries out
liaison missions and constitutes France's contribution to the
force," a French military source in Cairo said.


"We cannot confirm any deaths for the moment, the teams are on
their way," he added.


The MFO is an independent peacekeeping force not related to the
United Nations, created as a result of the 1979 Israeli-Egyptian
peace treaty and funded mainly by the two neighbours and the
United States.


The approximately 2,000-strong military force was set up in 1982
and includes troops from 11 different countries, including a
large US contingent. It is based in two camps in the Sinai
peninsula.

