

Japan on Sunday pledged 100 million dollars to support clean
energy projects in Asia, as rapid economic growth brings rising
emissions of greenhouse gases.


Japan will also offer loans totalling up to two billion dollars
over five years to promote sustainable development and measures
to combat climate change, Finance Minister Koji Omi told the
Asian Development Bank's annual meeting.


"With Asia's role in the world economy growing, CO2 (carbon
dioxide) emissions from Asia are having an increasing
environmental impact," he said.


"At present, Asia accounts for about 30 percent of global energy
consumption," he said, adding that the region's energy use would
double by 2030 from current levels.


"More efficient use of energy and the reduction of CO2 emissions
in Asia are necessary for achieving sustainable growth not only
in the region, but also in the world," Omi said.


The ADB said Friday it would invest 900 million dollars in clean
energy projects in 2007 and slightly more in the following two
years, with the priority on China, India, Indonesia, Pakistan,
the Philippines and Vietnam.


But the development bank came under attack from non-governmental
campaigners led by Greenpeace which said that a large portion of
the ADB's energy financing was still being channeled into smoke-
belching fossil-fueled power.


"The bank must end the obvious contradiction of saying they want
to fight climate change, while supporting coal, the most climate-
damaging of energy technologies," Greenpeace's Athena Ballesteros
said in a statement.

