

A search team prepared to leave for the dense Cameroonian forest
Sunday to locate a missing Kenyan airliner feared crashed with
114 people on board, an official said Sunday.


The Chief Executive Officer of Kenya Airways spoke of an
"accident", after the six-month-old Boeing 737-800 sent out a
distress signal over southern Cameroon early Saturday, but
refused to confirm reports the plane had crashed "until the
aircraft is sighted".


Titus Naikuni released a list of names of the 114 people on board
the Kenyan airliner, including nine Kenyan crew, and updated a
list of nationalities of the 105 passengers, replacing one
mistakenly identified as a Chinese national with a Korean.


The plane, which began its journey in the Ivory Coast city of
Abidjan, took off from Douala airport in western Cameroon in a
violent storm after midnight Friday, headed for Nairobi.


In his last radio message to air traffic controllers, the pilot
"simply confirmed that the plane had taken off", a source close
to the Agency for the Safety of Aerial Navigation in Africa
(ASECNA) said.


Naikuni said the search would continue around the town of
Lolodorf, 100 kilometres (60 miles) southwest of Yaounde, where
witnesses said they heard a loud explosion overnight, according
to Cameroon state radio and TV.


He said two additional helicopters were on the ground to aid
search efforts managed by a crisis centre in Douala.


Kenya's Transport Minister Chirau Ali Mwakwere led a team of 35
Kenyan representatives that arrived in Douala late Saturday.


"The government wishes to reassure all Kenyans and also the
international community that we're doing whatever we can," said
spokesman Alfred Mutua, adding that they were expecting help from
Britain, France and the United States.


Kenya Airways was to hold a second news conference at 1:00 pm
(1000 GMT).

