

Latin America, home to nearly half of the world's 1.1 billion
Roman Catholics, is seriously under-represented at the Vatican,
whose hierarchy is dominated by European prelates.


Four Latin American countries figure among the world's top 10
Catholic countries, beginning with Brazil with 134.2 million
faithful, followed by Mexico (92.8 million), Colombia (39.8
million) and Argentina (35 million).


But the College of Cardinals who advise the pope counts only 31
members from Latin America out of 184, or fewer than one in five,
whereas the body includes 94 Europeans, of whom 37 are Italian.
Only 18 of the Latin American cardinals are under age 80 and thus
eligible to vote for a future pope.


Only four Latin Americans have positions in the Vatican Curia, or
administration.


Colombian Alfonso Lopez Trujillo, 71, heads the Pontifical
Council for the Family and has spoken out strongly against gay
unions.


His compatriot Dario Castrillon Hoyos, 77, is in charge of
dialogue with Catholic traditionalists who want to be allowed to
celebrate the old Latin mass.


The former head of the Vatican's Congregation for the Clergy,
Castrillon Hoyos is close to the conservative Opus Dei and
Legionnaires of Christ movements, both very active in Latin
America.


Brazilian Claudio Hummes, 72, more moderate than Castrillon
Hoyos, recently succeeded him as the head of the Congregation for
the Clergy. An opponent of the military dictatorship in Brazil
from 1964 to 1985, he championed the Church's role in defence of
the poor but rejected liberation theology.


Finally, Mexico's Javier Lozano Barragan, 74, heads the Vatican
office for health care.


A widespread shortage of Catholic priests is especially
pronounced in Latin America, where there are an average of 7,500
faithful per priest, compared with the world average of 2,677,
according to Vatican figures.


This paucity is reflected in the lack of Latin Americans in the
Church hierarchy.

