

Reynaldo "Boom Boom" Bautista of the Philippines won a 12-round
unanimous decision over Argentina's Sergio Manuel Medina here
Saturday in a showdown of unbeaten super bantamweights.


Bautista was one of four winners among five unbeaten fighters
from outside North America fighting on the undercard of the Floyd
Mayweather-Oscar de la Hoya super-welterweight showdown.


Bautista knocked down Medina for the second time in the fight
midway into the 11th round and judges awarded him the victory by
scores of 115-109, 115-109 and 116-108. Bautista improved to
29-0. Medina fell to 22-1.


Bautista suffered a one-point deducation for low blows in the
fifth round but responded by knocking down Medina late in the
sixth round.


Medina answered with a furious flurry in the seventh round,
hammering the Filipino fighter against the ropes twice before
Bautista clinched twice and reached the end of the round, never
to be so jeopardized again.


Alex Banal, an 18-year-old Filipino southpaw, improved to 13-0
with a draw with a unanimous junior bantamweight decision over
Mexico's Juan Rosas by scores of 78-73, 78-73 and 76-75.


Despite a one-point deduction for low blows in the third round,
Banal won his first fight outside his homeland while Rosas fell
to 25-3.


Australian junior lightweight Billy Dib remained undefeated, the
21-year-old Sydney southpaw improving to 16-0 with a unanimous
decision over Mexican Jose Gonzalez by scores of 78-74, 78-74 and
77-75. Gonzalez dropped to 14-4.


Unbeaten English lightweight John Murray, 22, improved to 21-0 by
stopping Lorenzo Bethea after 28 seconds of the seventh round,
his 11th triumph inside the distance. The American slid to 6-5.


English southpaw John O'Donnell, 21, suffered his first loss
after 15 victories, being stopped by Mexico's Christian Solano
1:50 into the second round of their welterweight bout. Solano
improved to 20-11 with four drawn.

