

Taiwan's ruling Democratic Progressive Party kicked off a two-
tier primary Sunday to select one of four party heavyweights as
its candidate for the 2008 presidential race.


Opinion polls suggest a close race between Premier Su Tseng-chang
and his predecessor Frank Hsieh, both former human rights
lawyers.


The chosen candidate will face opposition leader and former
Taipei mayor Ma Ying-jeou, who was nominated this week by the
Kuomintang party.


Nearly 255,000 DPP members were called to cast their ballots up
to 4:00 pm Sunday (0800 GMT) in the first phase of the primary,
with results expected a few hours later.


The second phase is a series of public surveys scheduled between
May 9-11 and designed to establish which candidate has the
broadest popular appeal.


The DPP will announce its candidate by May 30 under a system in
which the party vote accounts for 30 percent and the polls
account for 70 percent.


The other two runners are former DPP chairman Yu Shyi-kun and the
party's vice president Annette Lu.


Su, 59, has also served as a magistrate while Hsieh, 60, is a
former mayor of the southern city of Kaohsiung, Taiwan's second
largest and a traditional DPP stronghold.


The Kuomintang's Ma, 56, resigned in February as party chairman
after being indicted for allegedly misusing some 11 million
Taiwan dollars (about 333,000 US) in expense accounts when he was
Taipei mayor, a charge he denies.


Some KMT lawmakers suspect that Ma's indictment was politically
motivated, questioning why the four DPP figures running for
president, who had also been investigated for the same
allegations, were not indicted in turn.

