

English Premier League bosses are set to investigate an
"arrangement" between Manchester United and Everton which left
goalkeeper Tim Howard on the sidelines for their clash at
Goodison Park.


League leaders United came back from a two-goal deficit to win
last week's match 4-2, thus stretching their lead over reigning
champions Chelsea and boosting their bid for the league title.


Howard, whom United sold to Everton in February after an initial
loan deal, did not play in the match and it was later revealed by
the Merseyside outfit that an "arrangement" had been made between
the clubs to that effect.


According to reports in the Mail on Sunday and the News of the
World Premier League bosses have indicated that if 'third party
interference' is proven both clubs could be sanctioned, possibly
with points deductions or fines.


Premier League spokesman Dan Johnson said: "We will be contacting
both clubs as a matter of urgency to find out what has gone on.


"As Howard's is a permanent transfer there is no reason why he
could not have played against Manchester United.


"Had such a clause been included in the transfer we would not
have allowed it - it would have been a clear case of third party
interference.


"We certainly have no record of an agreement between Everton and
United that Howard could not play on April 28."


Earlier this week, Everton spokesman Ian Ross said that as a
condition of making the loan deal permanent in February, United
had demanded Howard did not play on April 28.


Ross said Everton had no choice, otherwise United would have kept
the transfer as a loan deal until the end of the season, and
manager David Moyes wanted to sign Howard up before he faced
competition from rivals.

