

Tens of thousands of people gave Pakistan's sacked top judge a
resounding welcome on Sunday as he took his protest to Lahore for
the first time since he was fired by President Pervez Musharraf.


Supporters waited overnight on the lawns of the Lahore High Court
premises as Chief Justice Iftikhar Mohammad Chaudhry arrived to
address lawyers waging a campaign for his reinstatement.


En route from Islamabad, Chaudhry was cheered by large crowds
including lawyers, political party workers and students who
showered fresh rose petals on his convoy of vehicles.


Small towns and cities reverberated to chants of "Go Musharraf,
go" and "Justice for Chief Justice."


It was the biggest show of support for Chaudhry since he was
sacked by Musharraf on March 9 over misconduct charges, his
counsel Aitzaz Ahsan told the gathering.


"Tens of thousands people came for his reception, this is a
referendum against Musharraf," Ahsan told the crowd in Lahore.


"This reception is historic and it will be remembered in the
country for many years."


Musharraf's decision to sack Chaudhry sparked uproar from
opposition parties, who called it an attempt to intimidate the
judiciary.


Musharraf has appointed a five-judge panel to hold an inquiry
into the charges.


The panel, called the Supreme Judicial Council, adjourned
proceedings on Thursday until May 9 after lawyers concluded
arguments about the validity and composition of the council.


Protest rallies have been held regularly, and lawyers boycotted
court on each hearing of the panel in Islamabad to demand
Chaudhry's reinstatement.


The government had asked him not to travel by road to Lahore,
citing the security situation.


Around 7,000 policemen and security officials were deployed for
the Lahore rally.

