

Turkey's parliament is to re-run a first round vote Sunday for
the election of a new president in which Foreign Minister
Abdullah Gul is the only candidate.


A vote on April 27 was declared invalid by the Constitutional
Court because the governing Justice and Development Party (AKP)
was not able to muster the required two-thirds of the seats as
the vote was boycotted by the opposition.


Opposition parties object to Gul's Islamist roots and that of
Turkey's ruling party of which he is a senior member.


Turkey's military -- which has stepped in four times in the past
to topple governments and which sees itself as the guardian of
the country's secular principles -- has also baulked at Gul's
candidacy.


Two protests gathering more than a million people demonstrating
in favour of secularism were held in April in Istanbul and
Ankara. Another one with 80,000 people was staged Saturday in the
small western city of Manisa.


To break the crisis, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan has
bowed to opposition calls for early general elections. They are
now to be held July 22.


But he has decided to first try once more to push Gul's candidacy
through parliament.


After that, according to a major reform package he is rushing
through the chamber, Turkey's president will be elected by
popular vote and not by lawmakers.


That change could boost Gul's chances of becoming head-of-state,
in the AKP's view.


The 56-year-old foreign minister told Britain's Financial Times
on Saturday: "Support for me is 70 percent (among the public).
That is why we have decided to go to the people."

