

New Zealand war veterans plan to sue the government claiming five
billion dollars (3.65 billion US) for exposure to the deadly
defoliant Agent Orange during the Vietnam War, the Sunday News
said.


It said the lawsuit would claim that consecutive governments and
officials since 1962 have been guilty of "malfeasance" --
breaking the law and bringing harm to others while in office --
and failing to provide duty of care.


Prime Minister Helen Clark, four former prime ministers, ex-
ministers and governors general are all targeted in the suit, the
paper reported.


The veterans have hired Australian law firm Slater and Gordon,
which two years ago won 1.5 billion dollars from James Hardie for
clients affected by asbestos poisoning.


Agent Orange was used by US forces in southern Vietnam during the
conflict to deprive enemy forces of jungle cover and destroy food
crops.


It contained dioxin, a chemical linked to a variety of diseases
and which veterans have blamed for a spate of birth deformities,
including babies with brain damage and shortened limbs.


In December, Veterans' Affairs Minister Rick Barker told the
veterans they would get compensation.


Ex-gratia payments would be made to those with certain medical
conditions, the spouses of veterans with these conditions who had
died, and children who have suffered adverse health effects as a
result of their fathers' exposure to the toxic environment in
Vietnam.


However, Radio New Zealand quoted Vietnam Veterans Action Group
chairman Brett Bullians as saying current compensation programmes
helped only a small portion of veterans and their families.


Some veterans were concerned they would not get compensation
because they had conditions not counted as caused by Agent
Orange.

