

With US patients increasingly concerned about dangerous conflicts
of interest among healthcare providers, a new study concludes
that almost all doctors have some relationship with drug makers.


US and Australian researchers said in the study that 25 percent
of doctors surveyed said they had received direct payments from
pharmaceutical producers, and fully 94 percent of practicing
doctors "have at least one type of relationship with the drug
industry," though this most often means receiving food in the
workplace or sample prescription drugs.


"Relationships with industry are a fundamental part of the way
medicine is practiced today. The real questions relate to how
much is too much and how far is too far," said a summary of the
study released Wednesday and to be published in the April 26
issue of the New England Journal of Medicine.


The study comes in the wake of several scandals in the health and
research industries over conflicts of interest.


Last year, for instance, Dr. Trey Sunderland of the US National
Institutes of Health was shown to have received 285,000 dollars
from Pfizer, the world's largest drug company, for cooperating
with them without having informed his superiors at the government
health research agency.


The study found that drug and medical device manufacturers single
out doctors in certain areas and doctors with influence over
others to develop close relationships, offering things like
payments for consulting and honoraria for speaking engagements.


According to the summary, the authors of the study said their
findings should "raise alarms" to do more to prevent health
manufacturers from having too much influence over doctors.


The study was conducted by researchers at Massachusetts General
Hospital- Partners Health Care System, Yale University, and the
University of Melbourne and Royal Melbourne Hospital in
Australia.

