

Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe headed Thursday for his first
summit in the United States, calling for frank talks between the
allies and vowing to push for a tough line on North Korea.


Abe will hold a two-day meeting with US President George W. Bush
at Camp David before heading on a tour of five Middle Eastern
countries.


"The Japan-US alliance is the cornerstone of Japan's diplomacy
and national security and as unshakable, irreplaceable allies, we
need to build a firm relationship of trust," Abe told reporters
before departing.


"I would like to build a relationship with the president in which
we can discuss everything frankly."


Abe has built his career as a hardliner on North Korea,
particularly over the communist regime's past abductions of
Japanese nationals.


"We need to find a solution to the issues of nuclear arms,
missiles and abductions" in cooperation with other nations, Abe
said.


"I will express my stance with an iron will of seeking a solution
to the abduction issue," he said. "I would like to reaffirm our
cooperation."


Abe has refused to fund a US-backed aid-for-disarmament deal with
North Korea due to the kidnapping dispute.


Since taking office in September, Abe has called for broadening
Japan's diplomacy in the wake of his predecessor Junichiro
Koizumi, who was one of Bush's most steadfast foreign allies.


Abe has broken a traditional rule that new Japanese prime
ministers go first to Washington. Instead, he first went to China
and South Korea in a bid to improve sour ties. He also toured
Europe earlier this year.

