

Australian share prices closed 0.39 percent higher Thursday as
investor sentiment was buoyed by Wall Street's record-breaking
performance overnight, dealers said.


They said the positive lead from Wall Street was reinforced by
benign domestic inflation data for the March quarter released
Tuesday, which showed the Reserve Bank of Australia is unlikely
to raise interest rates in 2007.


The benchmark SP/ASX200 index rose 24.0 points to 6,212.2 after
the Dow Jones Industrial Average closed above the 13,000-points
mark for the first time. The main Australian index was just 24.7
points short of its own closing record, set on April 18.


The broader All Ordinaries index rose 24.5 points to 6,197.8,
also just shy of its all-time high recorded April 18.


Turnover was 1.83 billion shares worth 6.75 billion dollars (5.64
billion US) were traded, with 665 stocks up, 601 down and 347
stocks unchanged.


Reynolds and Co private client advisor Michael Heffernan said the
overnight rise on Wall Street shares was clearly a leading
indicator for the Australian sharemarket.


Heffernan said ANZ, Australia's third largest bank, fell on
profit taking despite reporting a 16 percent year-on-year rise in
net profit for the first half to March of 2.1 billion dollars.


He said the market was slightly disappointed that one-off items
reduced the bank's cash profit to 11.8 percent, pushing the stock
down 0.32 dollars or 1.03 percent dollars to 30.88.


Elsewhere in the banks, National Australia Bank fell 0.28 to
43.19, Commonwealth Bank eased 0.05 to 53.10 and Westpac rose
0.26 to 27.33.


Shaw Stockbroking head dealer Jamie Spiteri said steady metals
prices lifted the key resources sector.


"It's nothing too surprising," he said. "The miners are going
forward with a very strong path for base metal prices."


BHP Billiton was up 0.21 at 30.22 and Rio Tinto advanced 1.14 to
84.89.


Telstra eased 0.04 to 4.64 and Optus-owner SingTel fell 0.03 to
2.69.

