

South Korea's conservative opposition party, seen as the front-
runner before December's presidential election, has suffered a
setback in parliamentary by- elections.


The Grand National Party (GNP) won only one of three seats in
Wednesday's polls, according to results released early Thursday.


It secured Hwaseong city near Seoul but lost Muan-Shinan district
in the southern province of South Jeolla, where Kim Hong-Up -- a
son of ex-president Kim Dae-Jung -- secured victory for the
Democratic Party.


The GNP also lost the central city of Daejeon to the minor
centrist People First Party, as well as five out of six posts for
mayors and county chiefs.


With almost eight months to go to the presidential poll, the two
front-runners are both from the GNP, according to opinion polls.


Lee Myung-Bak, a former Seoul mayor, has some 40 percent support
in most polls, followed by Park Geun-Hye, daughter of former
president Park Chung-Hee, with 20 percent.


But Wednesday's polls ended the GNP's winning streak in by-
elections that started in 2005.


"We take this with our humble heart. We'll take it as a lesson
from the people and we'll move forward from here to bring regime
change," GNP chairman Kang Jae- Sup was quoted by Yonhap news
agency as saying.


The pro-government Uri party lost in Hwaseong but did not stand
in the other two parliamentary seats to give minor parties a
chance. It saw the results as bolstering its efforts to merge
with small parties to challenge the GNP in December.


"Now that a bridgehead for a grand alliance has been founded, the
alliance drive for a new party will get a larger boost," a Uri
spokesperson said.


When the election results are confirmed, the GNP will have 128
parliamentary seats, the Democratic Party 12 and the People First
Party six.


Uri, formerly the party of President Roh Moo-Hyun, holds 108
seats. It lost its status as the majority party when 32 lawmakers
defected this year.

