

Radical opposition leader Eduard Limonov said Wednesday that he
had been informed of a government plan to have him killed, Echo
of Moscow radio reported.


The authorities had decided to eliminate him, "either by having
me arrested and killed in prison, or by assassinating me
directly," he said in a statement.


He said he received his information from a political opponent and
that the information was designed to intimidate him and shut him
up.


Limonov vowed last Friday to continue fighting the Kremlin after
a court officially banned his National Bolshevik Party, declaring
it an extremist movement.


Following the ruling by Moscow city court last Thursday, Limonov
said he would continue to work with The Other Russia movement, an
opposition coalition formed ahead of the March 2008 presidential
elections.


The Other Russia organised protests in Moscow and Saint
Petersburg earlier this month that led to a violent crackdown by
authorities.


In a separate development Wednesday, Yelena Tregubova, a Russian
journalist who exposed the censorship of reporters covering the
Kremlin, said she had applied for political asylum in Britain
because her life was in danger.


"If I return to Russia I will be in danger. My life is under
threat," Tregubova, 33, told Echo of Moscow radio in a telephone
interview.


Tregubova, who wrote a book on her time as a Kremlin
correspondent under presidents Putin and Boris Yeltsin, told the
radio station she had applied for asylum in Britain on Monday.


In February 2004 a small explosive device exploded outside
Tregubova's Moscow apartment in an event authorities dismissed as
hooliganism.


Journalists in Russia have increasingly complained of pressure
from the authorities in recent years.


Last October the murder of prominent Russian investigative
reporter Anna Politkovskaya, a fierce critic of Putin and the war
in Chechnya, prompted international outrage.

