

The San Antonio Spurs bounced back with a 97-88 victory over
Denver on Wednesday to level their National Basketball Associaton
playoff series at one game apiece.


Duncan scored 22 points and France's Tony Parker added 20 as the
Spurs posted a 97-88 victory over the Nuggets to knot their best-
of-seven Western Conference first-round series.


Later Wednesday, the top-seeded Dallas Mavericks were also trying
to rebound from a surprising defeat when they hosted the Golden
State Warriors in game two of their series.


Manu Ginobili scored 17 points, including a key burst in the
third quarter, and Michael Finley added 14 points to help San
Antonio take control of the contest.


The Spurs were beaten 95-89 in the series opener on Sunday as
Duncan was held to 14 points, six below his regular season
average.


The nine-time All-Star watched Denver All-Stars Allen Iverson and
Carmelo Anthony combine for 61 points to take early home-court
advantage away from the Spurs.


On Wednesday, Duncan, tallied 10 first-half points as San Antonio
led 49-41 at the half.


He was ably assisted by Parker, who totaled 12 points at the
half.


In the third quarter, after the Nuggets had cut a 14-point lead
down to 65-55 with 3:08 left on a follow shot by Anthony,
Ginobili went to work. The 29-year- old Argentine, who was held
to nine points in game one, scored on a layup with 2:34 remaining
before nailing a 3-pointer from the left corner 18 seconds later
to put Spurs up 70-55.


Ginobili's two free throws with 29 ticks left in the period gave
San Antonio a 74-60 lead entering the final quarter.


After trailing by as many as 17 points in the last period, Denver
rallied by using a 16-5 run to get back into the contest.


When Nene dunked on a feed from Iverson, the Nuggets trailed
89-85 with 1:12 left.


After Ginobili made a layup with 58 seconds remaining, Iverson,
who finished with 20 points, dropped a 3-pointer to cut the
deficit to 91-88 with 45 seconds left.


However, Duncan hit a short bank shot with 28 seconds remaining
and Finley and Parker made four free throws in the last 17
seconds to close out the scoring.


Game three is in Denver on Saturday.

