

The ashes of "Star Trek" star James Doohan will be blasted into
space on Saturday when a rocket carrying a symbolic portion of
the late actor's cremated remains is launched in New Mexico.


Doohan, beloved for his role as the USS Enterprise's chief
engineer Montgomery "Scotty" Scott, died aged 85 in 2005, but
plans for his posthumous rendezvous with the stars have been
repeatedly delayed.


However, launch organizers Space Services Inc. are confident that
Doohan's wishes will finally be granted when their SpaceLoft XL
rocket blasts off from the Spaceport America private launchpad
near Las Cruces, in New Mexico.


"While 'Scotty' lived this, Jimmy lived for this," Doohan's widow
Wende said in a press release. "I will be there to see the
launch, knowing that Jimmy is participating in an industry which
he loved so very much."


A public memorial service will take place at the New Mexico
Museum of Space History on Friday.


Ashes belonging to 201 other people will also be catapulted into
the heavens along with Doohan, including those of Gordon Cooper,
a US astronaut who was part of the Mercury manned spaceflight
program in the early 1960s.


Doohan's posthumous spaceflight will see him follow in the
footsteps of "Star Trek" creator Gene Roddenberry, whose remains
were fired into space by SSI in 1997, six years after his death.


SSI offers a variety of services for families wishing to shoot
the remains of loved ones into space.


Launching a single gram of ashes comes with a 495-dollar price
tag, while sending remains into deep space, a service which comes
into effect from 2009 will cost up to 12,500 dollars.

