

Bangladesh's emergency government backtracked over plans to exile
two feuding former prime ministers but on Thursday appeared to
threaten each with corruption charges if they stayed in the
country.


The military-backed government late Wednesday lifted a ban on
Awami League leader Sheikh Hasina Wajed returning from London.


It also said there were no restrictions on the movements of
Bangladesh Nationalist Party (BNP) leader Khaleda Zia, after
earlier trying to send into exile in Saudi Arabia.


"The government says clearly that there is no pressure on Khaleda
Zia to go abroad and there have been no restrictions on her
movements," the government said in a statement, despite Zia's
virtual house arrest over recent weeks.


Meanwhile, bank officials said Thursday they had been ordered to
hand over account details for the two women.


Bangladesh Bank was told late Wednesday to submit account details
for Zia and her bitter rival Sheikh Hasina, a senior bank
official told AFP.


The central bank -- passing on intructions from the government --
also sought account details of family members of the two leaders,
he added.


On Wednesday a government minister speaking on condition of
anonymity said Zia could face corruption charges if she remained
in Bangladesh.


Murder and extortion allegations have already been filed against
Sheikh Hasina, although she has vowed to return to fight them.
She was blocked from boarding a flight from London to Dhaka on
Sunday.


The new government has pledged to hold elections by the end of
2008 after implementing far-reaching reforms to get democracy
back on track.


It had been trying to exile Zia and Sheikh Hasina as part of a
drive to clean up Bangladesh's notoriously corrupt politics.


It has earlier been reported that Zia agreed to go into exile in
exchange for leniency for her two sons who face corruption
allegations.


Both women are accused of years of misrule that culminated in a
political crisis in January.

