

San Diego's Jake Peavy struck out nine straight batters - one shy
of the major league baseball record - but his stellar effot was
spoiled by Arizona's Stephen Drew.


Drew hit a walk-off two-run homer off San Diego closer Trevor
Hoffman to give the Diamondbacks a 3-2 victory over the Padres on
Tuesday.


The blast ruined a superb effort from Peavy, who came within one
strikeout of matching the 37-year-old major league mark for
consecutive Ks.


He tied his own club record with 16 strikeouts overall.


Starting from the bottom of the second inning through the end of
the fourth, Peavey blew through Arizona's lineup without letting
a hitter out of the batter's box.


The 25-year-old righthander had a chance to tie the major league
record of 10 consecutive batters fanned held by Hall-of-Famer Tom
Seaver, but walked Eric Byrnes on a 3-2 count to lead off the
bottom of the fifth.


Seaver struck out 10 straight batters for the New York Mets
against the Padres on April 22, 1970.


Peavy had a chance to tie the record, but a 2-2 pitch to Eric
Byrnes was ruled a check swing by first-base umpire Jeff Kellogg.


On the next pitch the Padres ace thought he caught the outside
corner of the plate, but crew chief Mike Reilly signaled the
pitch was a ball.


Peavy's total matched the Padres' record he set last year when he
struck out 16 Atlanta Braves in a 3-1 loss on May 22.


Peavy yielded only two hits and and three walks in seven innings.
He totaled 117 pitches, including 75 strikes.


The Diamondbacks as a team struck out 18 times, setting a team
mark in that respect.


Arizona manager Bob Melvin was so frustrated by some of the
strike calls that he was ejected in the fifth inning for arguing
balls and strikes.

