

Chinese authorities held four Americans for a second day Thursday
following a protest over the Olympic torch relay, a rights group
said as it called for their immediate release.


"We want answers from the Chinese government, this was a non-
violent protest, they must give us information on those detained
and release them immediately," Lhadon Tethong, a spokeswoman for
the Washington-based Students for a Free Tibet, told AFP by
telephone.


The four were detained at Mount Everest base camp on Wednesday
after unfurling banners demanding a "free Tibet" and protesting
plans to take the Olympic torch to the top of the mountain ahead
of the 2008 Beijing Olympics.


A spokeswoman at China's foreign ministry said Thursday the
government was investigating the matter, but refused to comment
further.


The US State Department said overnight it was looking into the
incident, without giving any other details.


The protesters included Tenzin Dorjee, the first known exiled
Tibetan to return to the region to protest, the rights group
said.


Hein Verbruggen, the chairman of the International Olympic
Committee's (IOC) coordination commission for the Beijing Games
on Wednesday refused to comment on the detentions, saying the IOC
would not engage in political issues.


Lhadon said Verbruggen's statement was irresponsible and urged
the IOC to take action.


"We want the IOC and particularly (IOC President) Jacques Rogge
and Hein Verbruggen to immediately intervene and tell the Chinese
authorities they must release these activists," Lhadon said.


"This kind of behaviour from the Chinese government is not
acceptable from a nation holding such an international event."


China sent troops in to "liberate" Tibet in 1951. The Dalai Lama,
Tibetan Buddhism's most revered spiritual leader, later fled to
India in 1959 after a failed uprising and established a
government-in-exile in Dharamsala.

