

A leading Chinese magazine is halfway to closure and its editor
has been disciplined for defying government guidance on covering
politically-sensitive subjects, a report said Thursday.


Lifeweek, which is run by the state-owned Sanlian Book
Publication Group, has been given a "six-point" penalty by the
Communist Party's propaganda department, the South China Morning
Post said.


The department recently introduced the points system as part of
its means to tighten control on print media ahead of a key party
congress this autumn. The media outlets can be closed if they
have 12 points.


The weekly ran a cover story last October on the 30th anniversary
of the end of the Cultural Revolution, with a front-page picture
of late leader Mao Zedong's wife, Jiang Qing, standing trial.


Jiang was part of the "Gang of Four" who played a pivotal role in
the 1966-76 turmoil.


It also ran a story on the 30th anniversary of the death of Mao
and of the Tangshan earthquake, in which more than 200,000 people
died, the paper said.


Lifeweek's executive editor, Miao Wei, was disciplined with a
"serious internal warning", the Post said, but it was not clear
what action the management has taken against him.


The crackdown highlights strict media controls heading into the
2008 Olympics.


On January 1 China lifted some restrictions for foreign
reporters, giving them more freedom to work and travel in a bid
to improve its image before the 2008 Beijing Olympics.


But domestic media, including the Internet, continue to be
tightly controlled by the ruling Communist Party which fears
instability and challenges to its power.


The country is ranked by the Paris-based Reporters Without
Borders as the 163rd out of 167 countries on its global press
freedom index.

