

Stalled peace talks between the Philippine government and Muslim
separatist rebels are to resume after the May 14 mid-term
elections, both sides said Thursday.


The government and the Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF) have
agreed to work towards a resumption of the talks, presidential
spokesman Ignacio Bunye said in a statement.


The 12,000-strong MILF late last year said the talks were on the
brink of collapse over its demands for economic control of
ancestral lands in the southern island of Mindanao.


MILF chief Murad Ebrahim in March blamed "hawkish" elements
within the military for allegedly trying to sabotage the talks,
which are aimed at reaching a political solution to the MILF's
29-year insurgency.


He said his forces were on the defensive and would only step up
the war if provoked by troops.


MILF spokesman Eid Kabalu on Thursday said "backdoor
negotiations" were continuing, adding that the group was also
optimistic the talks would resume in May.


"We hope to get the talks re-started after the election," he told
AFP. "By that time, hopefully there would be less distractions."


The Philippines goes to the polls to choose congressmen, senators
and thousands of local officials from mayors to governors on May
14.


Kabalu said MILF forces would help ensure elections in Muslim
Mindanao would be peaceful.


"We will patrol in some areas and make sure there is no
violence," he said. "We have already coordinated with the
military through the government's peace monitors."


The MILF has been waging a rebellion for an indepdent Islamic
state on Mindanao since 1978. Tens of thousands have died in the
conflict, which has also held back growth in the country's south.

