

World Trade Organization chief Pascal Lamy urged the US Congress
Wednesday to extend special presidential trade powers to advance
the stalled Doha Round of global trade talks.


Winding up a three-day visit to Washington, the WTO director
general said he had met with the main players in US trade and had
spent "most of my time" with members of Congress.


Lamy, speaking at a joint news conference with US Trade
Representative Susan Schwab, said he had delivered a message on
US President George W. Bush's "fast- track" Trade Promotion
Authority.


Under the five-year TPA, which is set to expire July 1, Bush has
the power to submit trade deals for accelerated approval by
lawmakers in a straight "yes" or "no" vote, without amendment.


"We're nearing crunch time in the Doha Round," Lamy said he told
members of Congress, since January led by opposition Democrats
who may refuse to extend the TPA to a Republican president.


"We need Congress to be aware that activity, motion,
determination, progress in a renewal of Trade Promotion Authority
is important for the momentum in the negotiations."


The Doha Round, launched in 2001 in the Qatari capital, has
repeatedly missed deadlines as wealthy and developing nations
have struggled to strike a deal on opening up trade in
agricultural, industrial goods and services.


Schwab raised the possibility of a ministerial meeting of the so-
called Group of Four countries -- the European Union, the United
States, Brazil and India -- on the sidelines of a mid-May meeting
of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in
Paris.

