

US President George W. Bush will meet May 2 with Colombian
President Alvaro Uribe, the White House said Wednesday, amid
charges that officials close to Uribe had ties to right-wing
paramilitaries.


"Colombia is an important strategic partner, and this visit
underscores the friendship and extensive cooperation between the
United States and Colombia," spokeswoman Dana Perino said in a
statement.


They will discuss plans for "advancing opportunity, security, and
respect for human rights in Colombia, as well as the importance
of free trade to sustained economic growth, job creation, and
prosperity," she said.


"The visit will also be an opportunity for the President to
underscore his appreciation for the positive role Colombia plays
in the region," said Perino.


Earlier this year, eight lawmakers from parties in Uribe's
governing coalition were arrested for alleged links with the
paramilitary United Self-Defense Forces of Colombia (AUC), which
the United States considers a terrorist organization.


The announcement came days after former US vice president Al Gore
canceled planned meetings with Uribe, who has repeatedly denied
past links with paramilitary leaders.


The mounting scandal has also led US lawmakers to block 55
million dollars in military aid to Colombia.


At a March 11 press conference with Uribe in Bogota, Bush said
his host had assured him that Colombia's judiciary would have "no
political favorites when it comes to justice" on the paramilitary
issue.


"He said, 'we have an independent court, we've got a firm law;
people will be held to account, no matter what political party
they may or may not be associated with," said Bush.

