

Struggling pace bowler Dilhara Fernando is likely to be axed from
Sri Lanka's team for Saturday's World Cup final after his
disastrous performance in the semi-final win over New Zealand.


Fernando was warned twice for running on the pitch during the
81-run win over the Black Caps at Sabina Park on Tuesday while
his five overs cost 45 runs.


Sri Lanka's chief selector Asantha de Mel told the BBC they were
not happy with Fernando's form and that fellow seamer Farveez
Maharoof is likely to get the nod.


"Most probably it will be Maharoof," said De Mel from the
Caribbean. "We were not satisfied with Dilhara's performance."


Maharoof was considered unlucky not to make the semi-final after
he had taken 4-25 in Sri Lanka's last Super Eights game against
Ireland.


De Mel also confirmed that Upul Tharanga would continue to open
ahead of former skipper Marvan Atapattu.


If Atapattu doesn't play it will be the second time he has sat
out an entire World Cup tournament.


The same fate befell him when Sri Lanka won the title in 1996.


Maharoof was named man-of-the-match against Ireland last week
where he took four wickets, including three in an over, as well
as pulling off a stunning run-out.


Ironically, Maharoof, a former captain of his country's Under-19
side, was only playing in that match in Grenada because Fernando
had an ankle injury.


"I got injured earlier in the tournament against Bangladesh but I
just kept working hard in the nets," said Maharoof.


"This is my first World Cup and it is something I have been
looking forward to ever since I became professional three years
ago.


"All the bowlers have proved their class at the World Cup," added
Maharoof who has shown himself to be a man for the big occasion
in the past - at the 2006 Champions Trophy in India he took 6-14
to help bowl out the West Indies for 80.


"We have been talking about getting the basics right and putting
the ball in the right areas."

