

Japanese share prices closed up 1.12 percent on Thursday after
the Dow Jones Industrial Average crossed 13,000 points for the
first time ever overnight, dealers said.


The record finish on Wall Street overwhelmed caution on the
domestic front, where a raft of data is out Friday in the midst
of the corporate earnings season.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
gained 193.01 points to close at 17,429.17.


The broader Topix index of all first-section shares rose 16.07
points or 0.95 percent to 1,703.41.


Gains beat declines 1,295 to 341, with 93 stocks flat.


Volume was 2.03 billion shares, up from 1.81 billion Wednesday.


"Investor sentiment improved after the Dow topped 13,000 points
overnight," said Hideo Mizutani, chief strategist at Sieg
Securities.


He said the gains here had been led by the futures market and
that rallies on other East Asian markets helped.


The appetite for buying was whetted by expectations that
companies will report healthy earnings, Mizutani said.


At the same time, stocks face stong resistance "at the
17,500-points level as investors refrained from aggressive buying
before more results, the economic data (Friday) and the Golden
Week (holidays next week)," he said.


Several economic indicators are due to be released Friday,
including consumer inflation for March and the Bank of Japan's
latest report on the outlook for economic activity and prices.


Hiroaki Hiwada, a strategist at Toyo Securities, said: "There is
speculation that the Bank of Japan will raise its key interest
rate in May so investors are waiting for the (inflation) report."


JFE Holdings rose 280 yen or 4.3 percent to 6,720 after the
company said global demand for would push its operating profit to
a record level in the current fiscal year.


Nippon Steel Corp jumped 39 yen or 5.2 percent to 785, Sumitomo
Metal Industries was 19 yen or 3.1 percent higher at 626 and
Tokyo Steel Manufacturing gained 53 yen or 3.1 percent at 1,762.


Mitsubishi Motors climbed 4 yen or 2.2 percent to 185 after the
automaker said it had returned to the black in the past fiscal
year.


Toshiba was up eight yen or 0.9 percent at 896, with its results
announced after the close.

