

The euro hovered just shy of its record high against the dollar
in Asian trade Thursday as players held their breath ahead of a
raft of US and Japanese economic data, dealers said.


They said the euro was taking a breather after coming within a
whisker of its all-time best against the dollar on optimism about
growth prospects for the 13-nation eurozone and expectations of
further interest rate rises there.


The single European currency was at 1.3646 dollars in Tokyo
afternoon trade, up slightly from 1.3636 late Wednesday in New
York.


At one point Wednesday the euro scaled a more than two-year peak
of 1.3665 dollars, almost touching its December 30, 2004 record
high of 1.3666.


"The market is taking a breather after the euro shot to that high
level but there is really no reason to sell down the euro,
either," said Shigeru Nakane, a dealer at Resona Bank.


The dollar failed to gain traction overnight from data showing a
strong 3.4 percent monthly gain in durable goods orders, or a 2.6
percent rebound in new home sales that eased worries about the US
housing sector.


The dollar slipped to 118.67 yen in Tokyo after 118.72 in New
York while the euro was steady at 161.90 yen from 161.92.


The market was bracing for a series of economic reports on Friday
including Japanese unemployment, consumer prices and industrial
output, as well as the Bank of Japan's economic outlook report.


In the United States, key US gross domestic product figures for
the first quarter are also due Friday.


"Friday's US GDP report for the first quarter where GDP growth is
expected to have slowed to 1.8 percent from 2.5 percent will be
key to whether the dollar continues to trend lower in the short-
term," National Australia Bank currency strategist John
Kyriakopoulos wrote in a note to clients.


Players have driven the euro higher on growing expectations of
further interest rate rises by the European Central Bank, with
many economists forecasting a quarter point hike to 4.00 percent
in June.


That would make eurozone assets even more attractive, enticing
investors to change other currencies into the euro.


The single European currency was given a fresh boost Wednesday
after the Ifo research institute's closely watched German
business confidence index rose to 108.6 points in April from
107.7 points in March.


The dollar was mixed in afternoon Asian trade.


It firmed to 33.305 Taiwan dollars from 33.196, to 929.30 South
Korean won from 926.30, to 1.5129 Singapore dollars from 1.5118
and to 32.45 Thai baht from 32.32.


The greenback eased to 47.46 Philippine pesos from 47.51 and to
9,080 Indonesian rupiah from 9,087.

