

The US commander of multinational forces in Iraq, General David
Petraeus, said Wednesday that efforts to quell unrest in the
western Sunni province of Anbar have made almost "breathtaking"
progress.


Speaking to reporters about the new US strategy to curb sectarian
violence in Iraq launched two months ago, based on a US troop
increase, Petraeus said: "We are ahead, I think, with respect ...
to the reduction of sectarian murders in Baghdad.


"Progress in Anbar is almost something that's breathtaking," he
added.


The general illustrated his positive evaluation by citing the
killing Friday of an Al-Qaeda kingpin, identified by the US
command as the "security emir" for the east of Anbar province.


He also pointed to the capture of the head of an important
weapons network and advances in intelligence about Iranian
involvement in the conflict.


Petraeus, speaking after meeting with representatives and
senators in Congress, acknowledged that challenges remain in
Iraq, particularly car bomb networks and suicide attacks.


His comments came several hours before the US House of
Representatives voted to approve a war funding bill that includes
a timetable for pulling US troops out of Iraq, ignoring a threat
by President George W. Bush to veto it.


The narrow 218-208 vote by the Democratic-majority House links
release of 124 billion dollars in military spending for Iraq and
Afghanistan to a schedule for the pullout of American troops,
beginning as early as October.


Lawmakers paid little heed to Petraeus, who during a closed-door
session earlier in the day championed the troop "surge" strategy
and appealed for time so it could show results.


"Tonight, the House of Representatives voted for failure in Iraq
-- and the president will veto its bill," said a statement by
White House spokeswoman Dana Perino.


The bill next faces a vote in the Senate, expected on Thursday,
where it will likely be approved. Then it heads to Bush, who has
repeatedly vowed to block it.

