

Japan's Toshiba Corp. said Thursday net profit jumped 76 percent
to a record high in the year to March thanks to strong sales of
electronic goods and its massive purchase of US nuclear power
plant maker Westinghouse.


The high-tech giant said it also benefitted by selling securites
and fixed assets to offset the cost of buying Westinghouse, which
was one of the largest Japanese acquisitions overseas in years.


Toshiba posted a record net profit of 137.4 billion yen (1.16
billion dollars) for the financial year, up from 78.2 billion
yen.


Revenue rose 12 percent at 7.12 trillion yen, with operating
profit gaining seven percent to 258.4 billion yen.


The company said it enjoyed brisk demand for its electronics
products, including personal computers, televisions and portable
digital music players.


Toshiba saw strong sales of semiconductors including NAND flash
memory chips -- the technology vital to MP3 players and other
consumer electronics.


It also credited its 5.4 billion-dollar purchase of Westinghouse
from British Nuclear Fuels for the profits gain.


"The power systems business saw sales rise on the consolidation
of Westinghouse into the group," a statement said.


However, it forecast a 17.4 percent drop in net profit in the
current year to March 2008 to 120 billion yen, in part due to the
cost of consolidating Westinghouse, which it hopes will benefit
from a resurgence in the US nuclear power market.


At the same time, revenue is expected to edge up by five percent
and operating profit by 1.6 percent.


The company said sales of mobile telephones decreased at home
last year amid tough competition and warned that the NAND bonanza
would gradually fade.


Operating profits from electronics devices "is expected to be
lower than in fiscal year 2006, reflecting market price declines
in NAND flash memories."

