

ABN Amro said on Wednesday that it has agreed to share the same
information it has given to Barclays with a consortium of three
banks competing to buy the Dutch financial institution.


ABN Amro made the announcement in a statement following
Wednesday's talks with the consortium.


The consortium comprising Royal Bank of Scotland, Spain's Banco
Santander and Dutch-Belgian group Fortis have proposed a 72
-billion-euro takeover for ABN Amro priced at 39 euros per share.
The offer tops a rival bid by British bank Barclays that has been
accepted by ABN Amro management.


The consortium said it would have to see ABN Amro's books first
and get access to the same information Barclays has had before it
could put a definite offer on the table.


Barclays has offered 36.25 euros per share on the condition that
ABN Amro sells its US banking unit LaSalle Bank before the merger
is completed.


But the Dutch shareholders' association VEB threatened on
Wednesday to take legal action against ABN Amro unless
shareholders were allowed to vote on the sale of LaSalle Bank at
ABN's general assembly on Thursday.


ABN Amro has agreed to sell LaSalle Bank to Bank of America for
21 billion dollars (15.5 billion euros), a move seen as a poison
pill to deter the RBS-led consortium from launching a hostile
takeover bid.


Royal Bank of Scotland is particularly interested in LaSalle
Bank, some analysts believe.


"The sale of LaSalle for 21 billion dollars to Bank of America
(is) a major transaction that must be put up for approval at the
shareholders meeting," said VEB in a statement.


"If ABN Amro refuses to respond to this request, VEB intends to
take legal action in order to force it to respect this obligation
that it has towards all of its shareholders."

