

Japanese share prices rose 0.75 percent in morning trade Thursday
after Wall Street's Dow Jones index broke through the 13,000
points barrier overnight for the first time ever, dealers said.


They said investors were also digesting a slew of domestic
earnings reports and gearing up for another raft of results after
the close of trade.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
gained 129.48 points to 17,365.64 by the lunch break, a day after
sliding 1.24 percent.


The broader Topix index of all first-section shares added 7.65
points or 0.45 percent to 1,694.99, after dropping below the
symbolic 1,700-point mark on Wednesday.


Gainers outnumbered decliners 1,055 to 527, with 138 stocks flat.


Volume fell to 814 million shares from 878 million Wednesday
morning.


"Share prices rebounded from recent declines helped by the Dow's
having topped 13,000 points," said Hiroaki Hiwada, a strategist
at Toyo Securities


"But shares were trading within a limited range as investors were
cautious ahead of the earnings announcements of blue-chip
companies, the release of economic indicators and upcoming
holidays," he added.


Among blue chips scheduled to release their full-year earnings
later Thursday are Toshiba, Fujitsu, Nissan and Nintendo.


Several Japanese economic indicators are due for release Friday,
including the March consumer price index and the Bank of Japan's
report on the outlook for economic activity and prices.


Hiwada said investors were eager to see the report given
speculation that the central bank might raise its interest rates
again as soon as May.


Shiseido was up 70 yen or 2.8 percent at 2,545 after the company
reported a 75 percent rise in net profit for the fiscal year
ended March led by brisk overseas sales, especially in China.


Sony was up 60 yen or 0.9 percent to 6,460 after a report said
the consumer electronics giant plans to take unit Sony Financial
Holdings Inc public later this year, raising some 300 billion yen
(2.5 billion dollars).

