

Bollywood bride Aishwarya Rai will live with her in-laws and
adopt her husband's family name, her movie icon father-in-law
Amitabh Bachchan said in an interview published Thursday.


The emerald-eyed former Miss World, who wed Bollywood heart-throb
Abhishek Bachchan in a traditional Hindu ceremony last Friday,
"will live with us," he told the Times of India.


"This decision came voluntarily from both Abhishek and
Aishwarya," said Amitabh Bachchan, a prolific actor who has a
vast international fan base from South Asia to the Middle East
and Africa and is known simply as "the Big B".


Many Indian couples live with their in-laws after their marriage,
although an increasing number are setting up home on their own.


Amitabh Bachchan said his new daughter-in-law "desires to use
Bachchan as her surname" and had already signed her autograph
using that name -- the most famous in Bollywood.


The 33-year-old, who won the Miss World title in 1994, will
continue her cinema career.


He said he and his wife, Jaya, "have insisted that Aishwarya must
continue with her acting career. There is no problem or issue
with us."


Amitabh Bachchan's wife Jaya was a well-known actress who largely
retired from cinema after getting married and there had been
media speculation that Aishwarya might do the same.


Her marriage with Abhishek Bachchan, 32, has created Bollywood's
"ultimate power couple," according to local media.


They have already starred together in a number of movies and
Bachchan, who is one of Bollywood's leading men, was last year
voted the sexiest man in Asia by a British newspaper.


The wedding in Mumbai, India's entertainment capital, was kept
relatively low key in deference to Amitabh Bachchan's mother, who
is unwell in hospital.

