

South Korea's current account swung into the red in March as
overseas investors picked up their dividend payments, the central
Bank of Korea said Thursday.


The deficit stood at 1.49 billion dollars in March, a reverse
from a revised surplus of 402.1 million dollars in the previous
month.


The current account is the broadest measure of trade, services
and investment flows into and out of the country.


Seasonally adjusted, the current account had a deficit of 446
million dollars last month, compared with a surplus of 628.1
million dollars in February.


"The deficit was largely expected due to the seasonal overseas
dividend payments in March-April," said Jeong Sam-Yong, senior
manager of the central bank's balance of payments statistics
team.


He said the April deficit would be at a similar level to March's.


In the three months to March, the overall current account posted
a deficit of 1.52 billion dollars, up from a 1.12 billion dollar
deficit in the same period a year earlier.


The central bank said the 2007 current account would be in the
black but the surplus would shrink to two billion dollars this
year from 6.09 billion dollars in 2006.


The trade balance in March posted a 2.5 billion dollar surplus,
up from a revised 2.39 billion dollars the previous month.
Exports rose to 30.79 billion dollars from 27.18 billion dollars
while imports expanded to 28.29 billion from 24.80 billion.


The service account deficit narrowed to 1.69 billion dollars from
an all-time record deficit of 2.55 billion dollars in February,
on a larger transportation account surplus and a fall in royalty
payments.

