

Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe should sit down for a US steak
dinner during his two-day stop in Washington, a top White House
official quipped Wednesday amid a US-Japan beef dispute.


"If you ask my personal recommendation, I think obviously Prime
Minister Abe ought to have a steak dinner sometime while he's
here in Washington," said Dennis Wilder, the top National
Security Council East Asia official.


Democratic Senators Max Baucus and Jon Tester of Montana wrote
the White House chef on Monday to urge her to serve beef from
their home state at the small dinner US President George W. Bush
will host for Abe.


Wilder declined to predict the menu at that dinner, saying: "I'm
going to refer you to the first lady's press office, I don't get
into those details."


Asked about a possible steak dinner, a senior Japanese official
briefing reporters on Abe's visit replied: "I'm sure Prime
Minister Abe would enjoy it."


Beef in recent years has turned into a major sore point between
the close political allies.


Japan, formerly the top overseas market for US beef, has halted
imports twice since 2003 due to scares over bovine spongiform
encephalopathy (BSE), the brain- wasting condition commonly known
as mad cow disease.


Faced with threats of sanctions, Japan in July agreed to resume
US beef imports on condition the cattle were 20 months old or
younger at the time of slaughter, with brains, spinal cords and
other risky parts removed.


Tokyo and Washington announced Tuesday that Japan has agreed to
scrap its universal inspections of US beef in return for sending
its own inspectors to US meatpacking plants.


The announcement came as lawmakers from cattle-grazing states
like Montana are demanding Japan ease restrictions imposed over
concerns about mad-cow disease.

