

Japan's Nissan Motor said Thursday its net profits slumped by
11.1 percent in the year to March, the first drop in annual
earnings under legendary chief executive and one-time saviour
Carlos Ghosn.


Nissan reported net profit of 460.80 billion yen (3.98 billion
dollars), down from 518.05 billion in the previous fiscal year.


Operating profit fell 10.9 percent to 776.94 billion yen while
revenue rose 11percent to 10.47 trillion yen, helped by a weaker
yen.


Nissan predicted a rebound in profits in the current fiscal year
to March 2008, forecasting net profit of 480 billion yen and
operating profit of 800 billion yen but revenue is expected to
fall to 10.3 trillion yen.


Ghosn said in a statement that the current year would would be a
better one for Nissan, although rising raw material costs, energy
prices and interest rates all posed risks to the outlook.


He said Nissan would push back its target of selling 4.2 million
vehicles in the fiscal year March 2009.


The goal, which is part of the automaker's three-year "Value-Up"
business plan unveiled in 2005, is now expected to be met one
year later.


"2006 did not boost our results towards achieving the objectives
of Nissan Value-Up," said Ghosn, who joined the loss-making
company in 1999.


"However, we believe that the commitments are within the
potential of the company and we remain focused to deliver them
completely," he added.


Nissan's global sales fell 2.4 percent in the year to March to
3.483 million vehicles despite the launch of 10 all-new models.


The company struggled in particular in its home market Japan,
where sales slumped 12.1 percent to 740,000 vehicles and its
market share shrank 1.2 percentage points to 13.2 percent.


In the United States, Nissan's sales dropped 4.0 percent to 1.035
million vehicles.


Nissan announced earlier this week plans to axe at least 1,500
domestic jobs by introducing an early retirement programme -- its
first such move in eight years.


It has also announced plans to restructure its dealer network and
said further measures would be taken to restore its fortunes.

