

Concerns for the safety of heads of government, and Queen
Elizabeth, at a planned Commonwealth summit in Kampala, Uganda,
in November have put the meeting in doubt, The Times reported on
Thursday.


Citing an unidentified source, the paper said that some officials
within the British Foreign Office doubt whether the summit can go
ahead, though Buckingham Palace has apparently said the state
visit should go ahead.


The heads of government of the 53 Commonwealth member states are
due to meet in Kampala on November 23 to 25 to discuss common
political and economic matters, and the Queen, by convention,
makes a state visit to the host country before the summit, as
head of the Commonwealth.


"I am beginning to think it may not happen," the source told The
Times.


"You can't have the Queen visiting if people are shooting each
other in the streets ... There will be a Plan B."


Uganda has been plagued by a two-decade war between government
forces and the rebel Lord's Resistance Army, though the two
parties have agreed to reopen peace talks.


The UN has called out Uganda for "indiscriminate" violence and
killings carried out by the Ugandan army in the remote
northeastern Karamoja region, and political unrest has seen
Ugandan police fire live rounds and tear gas to disperse
thousands of protestors this month.


Ugandan lawyers and judges also went on strike last month,
protesting state interference in their work.


According to The Times, such unrest has provoked doubts in the
British Foreign Office.


The Queen is set to travel to Uganda with her husband, Prince
Phillip, the Duke of Edinburgh, as well as her oldest son,
Charles, the Prince of Wales, and his wife Camilla, the Duchess
of Cornwall.

