

A protracted banking dispute delaying North Korea's
denuclearisation will be settled soon, South Korea's nuclear
envoy said Thursday.


Chun Young-Woo, returning a day early from a trip to Washington,
said the North was making "earnest endeavours" to end the dispute
over its funds that had been frozen in a Macau bank since 2005 at
US instigation.


Pyongyang says it will only start implementing a February
multinational deal on dismantling its nuclear programme after it
receives 25 million dollars which had been frozen at Banco Delta
Asia (BDA) on suspicion of money-laundering and counterfeiting.


Macau's financial authorities have unblocked the funds and the
United States has said they are available for collection.


"Talks between related parties are proceeding well and a way to
resolve the BDA issue will be found sometime next week," Chun
told reporters.


"North Korea is also making earnest endeavours and hectic talks
are now under way among related parties."


Chun met his US counterpart Christopher Hill, Deputy National
Security Adviser Jack Crouch and other officials in Washington.


The communist state, which tested a nuclear bomb last October,
missed an April 14 deadline to start shutting down its nuclear
programme under a six-nation accord reached in February.


It has confirmed that problems in transferring its cash from BDA
are delaying settlement of the dispute.


Analysts say other foreign banks are reluctant to accept the
transferred cash because it is seen as tainted.


South Korea's Foreign Minister Song Min-Soon has said that apart
from just recovering the money from BDA, North Korea wants to
ensure that its access to the international financial system has
been restored.

