

Premier Wen Jiabao will head a new team aimed at ensuring China's
environmental goals are met, amid a rising sense of urgency in
official ranks to tackle the problem, state press reported
Thursday.


Following the creation of the task force on Wednesday, Wen warned
that China was in grave need of cutting energy consumption and
pollution, and that much tougher action need to be taken, Xinhua
news agency said.


The government will play a "dominant role" in improving the
situation, Xinhua quoted Wen as saying.


The task force was set up after China missed its targets to cut
pollution and improve energy efficiency in 2006, the first year
in a five-year plan that many see as crucial in the nation's
efforts to combat climate change.


China set targets to slash its energy consumption per unit of
domestic gross product by 20 percent from 2006 to 2010, and to
cut emissions of key water and air pollutants by 10 percent over
the same period.


However, the country only lowered its energy consumption per unit
of gross domestic product by 1.2 percent last year -- against a
goal of four percent -- while pollution emission levels rose by
two percent.


Wen's decision to lead the task force comes as China finalises
its first major report on how to deal with climate change. The
environmental targets are expected to be a major part of the
government's strategy.


The government was to release the report this week but has
postponed it indefinitely.


It was forced into the delay amid fierce internal debate as to
how far the reforms should go, and what impact any environmental
measures would have on economic growth, environment campaigners
and other observers told AFP.

