

Zimbabwe's opposition leader said Wednesday he earned verbal
support but failed to secure financial aid from Canada during his
stop here on a tour of North America.


Arthur Mutambara, leader of the opposition to the internationally
isolated government of President Robert Mugabe, told AFP he had
received a warm welcome and "very positive" response but no firm
funding from Canada's Foreign Minister Peter MacKay Wednesday.


Dan Dugas, a spokesman for MacKay, said Canada made "no concrete
agreements" on economic development aid with Mutambara.


"The minister just wanted to show his support for the democratic
struggle in Zimbabwe and express his view that what (President
Robert) Mugabe is doing is unacceptable," he said.


Mutambara, who leads a breakaway faction of the Movement for
Democratic Change, said Zimbabweans seek "solidarity and support"
from Canada and the United States to "help us help ourselves and
fight our own struggles."


Western countries, especially Britain and the United States, have
been vociferous in criticising Mugabe's recent violent crackdown
on the opposition.


Mutambara has said the fractured opposition had reunited under
the clampdown, and was capable of working together to bring about
change.


Canada's opposition Liberals meanwhile called on the Conservative
government to increase aid for medicines, food and essential
supplies to the impoverished country.


They also recommended the government send a special envoy to
Zimbabwe, to pressure the UN Security Council to sanction Mugabe
and bring him before the International Criminal Court for crimes
against humanity, and even possibly expel the Zimbabwean
ambassador to Canada in protest.

