

Apple's board of directors on Wednesday vouched for the integrity
of chief executive Steve Jobs as an embattled former employee
implicated Jobs in a stock- option scandal.


"We have complete confidence in the conclusions of Apple's
independent investigation, and in Steve's integrity and his
ability to lead Apple," board members, including former US vice
president Al Gore, said in a release.


The public endorsement came on the day the Cupertino, California-
based company reported that profits surged in the first three
months of this year due sales of its iPod MP3 players and
Macintosh computers.


On Tuesday, Apple's former chief financial officer Fred Anderson
settled civil charges stemming from stock option backdating and
said he warned Jobs about potential accounting problems related
to the executive awards.


Jobs cooperated fully with investigations by Apple and regulators
at the US Securities and Exchange Commission into whether stock
option grant dates were altered without proper financial
reporting, according to the board.


"We are not going to enter into a public debate with Fred
Anderson or his lawyer," Apple board members said in the
statement.


"The SEC investigated the matter thoroughly and its complaint
speaks for itself, in terms of what it says, what it does not
say, who it charges, and who it does not charge."


The claim about Jobs' knowledge of the scheme came as Anderson
and Apple's former top lawyer were charged in a civil suit by US
federal regulators with participating in fraud related to multi-
million dollar Apple stock option awards.


Unlike many other corporations, Apple's fate is firmly entwined
with that of its Jobs, a founder of the business, and anything
linking him to the illegal backdating of stock options would rock
the company, analysts say.

