

Head coach Rick Carlisle, who was rewarded with a multi-year
contract extension six months ago, was fired by the Indiana
Pacers on Wednesday.


Carlisle led the Pacers to a disappointing 35-47 record as the
National Basketball Association club missed the playoffs for the
first time in 10 seasons.


Carlisle has been offered an unspecified position with the
organization but has not yet indicated if he will accept it.


In October, Carlisle was given a multi-year contract extension
after guiding the team to the playoffs in his first three
seasons.


He received the added title of executive vice president of
basketball operations.


Carlisle was in charge of the team during the Pacers infamous
brawl with Detroit Piston fans in November 2004. Ron Artest,
Stephen Jackson and Jermaine O'Neal were suspended for their
roles in the fighting.


Artest was traded to Sacramento during last season. Jackson was
dealt to the Golden State Warriors in an eight-player deal in
January.


Jackson feuded with the Pacers coaches and was suspended 15 games
and received probation for his involvement in the brawl. He also
is facing felony gun charges for an incident at an Indianapolis
nightclub in October.


"It is time for another voice here," Carlisle said. "It's time to
make a change here."


But Carlisle, who compiled a 181-147 record in four years with
Indiana, expressed a desire to coach again.


"I love coaching and I loved coaching this year, even though in
terms of wins and losses it was the most difficult season I ever
had."

