

International wildlife experts are in Cambodia this week
conducting the first- ever training to monitor the country's
threatened bear populations, conservation groups said Thursday.


The Bear Sign Survey course, which aims to teach Cambodian park
rangers to collect accurate data, is also being observed by
officials from Indonesia, Malaysia and Thailand with a view to
replicating it in other countries.


"The Bear Sign Survey course brings together the region's most
experienced bear experts to train local rangers to collect
valuable information about bears in the wild," said Matt Hunt,
Southeast Asia program manager for the Free the Bears Fund.


"It is the first time this kind of training course has ever been
held in Asia and it has generated a lot of interest," he added.


Bears continue to be hunted in large numbers throughout Southeast
Asia amid growing demand for their body parts which are used in
traditional medicine.


More than 14,000 bears are thought to be kept on bile farms in
China and Vietnam.


Cubs are also captured for the pet or restaurant trade, further
diminishing populations. Wildlife officials confiscated at least
three cubs in Cambodia during the last month, according to the
Free the Bears Fund.


Populations of the Asiatic black bear and Sun bear, both found
throughout the region, are considered vulnerable according to the
World Conservation Union Red List of threatened species.


But bears remain the least-studied group of large mammals in the
region, conservationists said.


"This training will give Cambodian rangers and researchers the
skills to collect data which will help us to understand the
status of wild bears," said Annette Olsson, a research manager
with Conservation International's Cambodia program.

