

Recalling the pageantry of sultanates centuries ago, Malaysia
installed its 13th king Thursday in a solemn ceremony where he
pledged to protect Islam and maintain peace.


At 45 the country's second youngest king ever, Tuanku Mizan
Zainal Abidin was sworn in last December, but Thursday's ceremony
was a formal installation at the national palace, Istana Negara,
in the capital Kuala Lumpur.


Kissing a gold Koran and holding a gold dagger to his forehead
symbolizing power, Tuanku Mizan swore the oath of office in the
throne room as the "Yang Di- pertuan Agong," or "He Who Is Made
Lord".


"I will hereby rule Malaysia in a fair manner, in accordance with
the law and the country's constitution, and uphold at all times
the religion of Islam and stand firm for a just government and
peaceful country," he said.


He was then feted by a royal orchestra and calls of "Daulat
Tuanku!" ("Long Live the King!") as Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad
Badawi, his ministers, state leaders and Malaysia's royalty
looked on.


Abdullah, who proclaimed Tuanku Mizan as king, pledged the
nation's loyalty to the monarch.


Earlier, as the orchestra from his home state of Terengganu
played, Tuanku Mizan filed into the throne room dressed in a
black ceremonial robe embroidered in gold.


He also sported a royal head-dress, a symbol of the power of
Malay rulers, adorned with a platinum and diamond star with 14
points -- one for each of Malaysia's 13 states and for the
country.


Around his body was the royal waist buckle, made of gold and
decorated with 11 rubies and bearing the crest of Malaysia's
government.


His queen, Tuanku Nur Zahirah, 33, wore traditional garments in
gold.


The day was declared a holiday for Malaysia's civil servants and
the stock market was closed as the event was broadcast
nationwide.


Tuanku Mizan, a father of four, was already the youngest Malay
ruler when he ascended the Terengganu throne as sultan at the age
of 36.


Educated in Malaysia and Australia, he was trained at the British
military academy at Sandhurst and is a keen sportsman with a
passion for riding.


Malaysia has had an elected monarchy since independence from
Britain in 1957. In a unique arrangement the monarch is chosen
by, and rotates among, the rulers of the nine Malaysian states
still headed by royalty.


Four other states are not headed by monarchs.


Despite largely ceremonial duties, the king commands great
respect from Malaysians, especially the majority ethnic Malays,
who maintain a loyalty to rulers whose lineage can be traced back
to Malay sultanates from the 15th century.


Portraits of the king and queen adorn government buildings
throughout the country. The king is also the symbolic head of
Islam in the majority-Muslim nation, as well as the nominal chief
of the military.


Acting on cabinet advice, he signs bills into law and appoints
ministers, judges and ambassadors.

