

Europe's main stock markets closed lower on Friday as the euro
hit a record high against the dollar and yen amid worries about
economic growth in the United States.


The British stock market bucked the trend, showing gains over the
day, but continental European markets and particularly those in
the eurozone finished in negative territory.


The London FTSE 100 index gained 0.78 percent to close at
6,418.70 points, in Paris the CAC 40 fell 0.23 percent to finish
at 5,930.77 while in Frankfurt the Dax shed 0.12 percent to
7,378.12 points.


The Spanish, Italian, Dutch and Belgian markets also closed
lower.


The euro struck a high of 1.3682 dollars in afternoon trade here
on Friday after new data revealed a marked slowdown in US
economic growth in the first quarter.


A strong euro penalises European exporters by making their
products more expensive in international markets.


The euro aso hit a record 163.16 yen against the Japanese
currency.


Wall Street shares traded mixed Friday as investors shook off
early jitters sparked by the US economic growth reading, which
showed quarterly expansion at its lowest in four years.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average was virtually flat in mid
morning trade, rising a fractional 0.65 points to 13,106.15 a day
after hitting a fresh all-time closing high.


The tech-heavy Nasdaq composite index rose 0.20 percent to
2,559.67 while the broad-market Standard and Poor's 500 index
shed 0.10 percent to 1,492.73.


The US economy grew by just 1.3 percent in the first quarter on a
12-month basis, official data showed.


Japanese share prices closed slightly lower Friday after soft
domestic economic data offset the impact of another record US
finish, dealers said.


In Europe on Friday, mining companies saw their share prices
struggle as investors winced at weak metal prices and took
profits following recent gains.


"The mining sector is a significant drag on the market," said
HSBC equity strategist Robert Parkes.


In London, shares in BHP Billiton fell 1.75 percent to 1,125
pence, Rio Tinto dropped 0.81 percent to 3,060 pence and Anglo
American lost 0.15 percent to 2,678 pence.


Shares in Scottish & Newcastle soared 6.75 percent to 625
pence on speculation that the group might merge with Danish rival
Carlsberg.


Drinks group Diageo was thought to be interested in some of S
& N's assets, particularly beer brand Foster's, should the
group merge with Carlsberg.


In Asia on Friday, Tokyo's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
lost 0.17 percent to close at 17,400.41 points.


Dealers said Tokyo investors squared their positions before Japan
enters the Golden Week holidays beginning this weekend.


Hong Kong's key Hang Seng Index closed down 0.68 percent at
20,526.50 points.


Elsewhere in Europe, in Milan the SP/Mib lost 0.46 percent to
43,642 points, in Madrid the Ibex 35 fell 1.42 percent to
14,403.6 points, in Amsterdam the AEX shed 0.66 percent to 530.49
points and the Belgian Bel 20 fell 0.31 percent to 4,643.43
points.


In Zurich the SMI index lost 0.65 percent to 9,419.90 points.

