

Singapore said Friday it would proceed with building a 12
-billion-Singapore- dollar (7.95-billion-US) subway train network
to further ease travel to the city centre.


The 40-kilometre (25-mile) Downtown Line, which will be mostly
underground, is expected to be completed in 2018, the Land
Transport Authority (LTA) said in a statement.


"The government has given approval for LTA to build the Downtown
Line at a cost of 12 billion Singapore dollars," the statement
said.


It said the new line would allow direct travel from the northwest
and eastern parts of the island to the central business district
and the Marina Bay area, where US gaming giant Las Vegas Sands is
building a casino.


The government is currently building a 33-kilometre (20-mile)
"circle line" which is expected to be completed in 2010 and boost
the existing mass rapid transit train system.


Singapore is aiming for at least 70 percent of passengers to
travel by public transport during peak hours by 2020 from 63
percent at present, the LTA said.


"Over the next 10-15 years, we will significantly increase the
density of our rail network, given its ability to carry large
numbers of people quickly, reliably and efficiently," Transport
Minister Raymond Lim said.


The government has said it is now planning for a projected
population of 6.5 million people over the long term, up nearly 50
percent from the current 4.5 million.


This has raised fears of overcrowding and pollution in one of
Asia's most liveable cities.


But experts say the island-nation renowned for its gardens, clean
surroundings and high living standards can avoid the problems
suffered by its neighbours through forward planning and
investment in public infrastructure.

