

NATO Secretary General Jaap de Hoop Scheffer welcomed Friday an
investigation into allegations that prisoners captured in
Afghanistan by Canadian soldiers are being tortured by their
Afghan jailers.


"We have seen that the Afghan authorities are ready to make an
inquiry into these allegations -- it's still allegations -- on
the way some detainees were treated," he told reporters after
informal NATO talks in Oslo, Norway.


"We are in Afghanistan, Canada is and 36 other NATO allies and
partners are there, to uphold and defend what I call universal
values. Part of (those) universal values is an adequate treatment
of detainees and of prisoners."


"I'm happy with what I saw, on the basis of these universal
values, that the Afghan government is ready to launch an
inquiry," he said.


An investigative report by The Globe and Mail daily newspaper
uncovered "a litany of gruesome stories and a clear pattern of
abuse by the Afghan authorities who work closely with Canadian
troops."


Monday's report, which was based on interviews with 30 former
prisoners of Kandahar jails, said the detainees suffered
whippings with electrical cables, electric shocks, exposure to
cold temperatures and beatings.


However it contained no mention of any abuse by the 2,500
Canadian troops in Afghanistan engaged in the fight against the
Taliban and Al-Qaeda-linked fighters.


The report has sparked opposition calls for Canada's defence
minister Gordon O'Connor to resign.


Scheffer said the issue had been raised at the talks by Canadian
Foreign Minister Peter MacKay and that "it had a resonance" with
his NATO counterparts.

