

West Ham's Premiership survival hopes were given a massive boost
on Friday when the east London club escaped a points deduction
over the controversial signings of Carlos Tevez and Javier
Mascherano.


The Hammers were hit with a massive fine of 5.5 million pounds
(11 million dollars) for breaching Premiership regulations
governing transfers after a Premier League disciplinary panel
ruled that the two Argentinians were effectively owned by a third
party.


But that amount may be reduced on appeal and, while it is a
record financial penalty for an English club, it will be regarded
as a price worth paying if West Ham go on to retain their top
flight status.


The decision not to impose a points penalty means West Ham will
go into Saturday's crucial relegation clash with fellow
strugglers Wigan only three points adrift of safety after winning
four of their last six matches.


Tevez and Mascherano were signed by West Ham on the final day of
the August 2006 transfer window.


Although they came from Brazilian club Corinthians, their
registrations were part-owned by Media Sports Investment, a
consortium headed by businessman Kia Joorabchian.


At the time, it appeared likely that the consortium would mount a
bid to take over West Ham. But that bid never materialised and
the club was instead bought by an Icelandic consortium fronted by
the current chairman, Eggert Magnusson.


Mascherano, who made only three first-team starts at West Ham,
was transferred in January to Liverpool, where he has since
rediscovered the form that made him one of Argentina's most
impressive performers at last summer's World Cup.


Tevez remains at Upton Park where he has become a cult hero to
the fans and played a key role in the recent revival that has
generated hope of a 'great escape' from the relegation zone.

