

A woodcarver wanted over the murder of a US Peace Corps worker in
the northern Philippines has been turned in by his mother, police
said Friday.


Juan Duntugan, 25, is the main suspect in the killing of American
Julia Campbell, whose battered body was found in a shallow grave
near the hill country tourist resort of Batad on April 18.


He was handed over to the Ifugao provincial police office in the
town of Lagawe after going into hiding hours after Campbell's
body was found, said regional police spokesman Superintendent
Joseph Adnol.


"We have no ground to hold him because there is no arrest
warrant," so Duntugan is both a suspect and witness at this time,
Adnol told reporters.


However murder charges are expected to be filed within the next
four days, giving police more time to detain and question him.


He said the mother convinced the son to surrender to clear his
name.


"We hope he can contribute towards establishing what really
happened to the victim. We hope he'll tell the truth," Adnol
added.


The 40-year-old Campbell, who worked as a volunteer teacher in
impoverished villages, disappeared after going trekking alone
near Batad on April 8.


She was last seen buying a soft drink at a store run by
Duntugan's wife and was apparently beaten around the head and
body before being buried. Her remains were cremated in Manila on
Thursday.


Police earlier said they recovered a pair of blood-stained
trousers believed to be Duntugan's. A piece of wood believed to
have been the murder weapon and a crowbar were also recovered.


The victim had worked in the Philippines for the past two years.
She previously lived in New York, where she worked as a freelance
journalist for publications including the New York Times.

