

US forces on Friday detained four members of a gang suspected of
smuggling armour-piercing bombs from Iran to Iraq and sending
back militants for "terrorist training", the military said.


A statement from US command in Iraq said the suspects were picked
up in an early morning raid on the east Baghdad suburb of Sadr
City, a known stronghold of radical Shiite cleric Moqtada al-
Sadr's Mahdi Army militia.


"The individuals targeted during the raid are suspected members
of a secret cell terrorist network known for facilitating the
transport of weapons and explosively formed penetrators, or EFPs,
from Iran to Iraq," it said.


The EFP is a form of roadside bomb in which the detonation of an
explosive charge inside a steel tube causes a copper disk to
deform into a fist-sized chunk of supersonic molten metal that
can scythe through armoured vehicles.


American commanders say the design is exclusively Iranian and in
January alleged that at least 170 US troops had been killed by
EFPs since May 2004.


The statement also said that the gang had sent "militants from
Iraq to Iran for terrorist training."


"Intelligence reports also indicate the secret cell has ties to a
kidnapping network that conducts attacks within Iraq," it added.


The announcement came one day after the US commander in Iraq,
General David Petraeus, accused Iranian Revolutionary Guards of
supporting a Mahdi Army splinter group implicated in the kidnap
and murder of five GIs.


Since January, US forces have been holding five alleged members
of the Guards' covert Qods Force after seizing them in a raid on
an Iranian government office in the northern Iraqi City of Arbil.


Tehran denies that its agents are involved in the Iraqi conflict.

