

Spain on Friday formally proposed Julio Segura as head of stock
market regulatory body CNMV, replacing Manuel Conthe, who
announced his resignation earlier this month.


Segura, 64, had been on the advisory board of the CMNV since
March 2006 and the government confirmed it backed his appointment
after Friday's cabinet meeting in a move that an economic
parliamentary commission must confirm.


Conthe said he was stepping down on April 2 in a surprise move
seen as linked to his handling of German energy utility E.ON's
long-running -- and ultimately fruitless -- takeover bid for
Spain's electricity giant Endesa.


Appointed in 2004, he had come under fire over his handling of
E.ON's 42.3 -billion-euro (56.4-billion-dollar) offer for Endesa,
Spain's biggest utility.


A month ago, the CMNV allowed E.ON to raise its bid to 40 euros
per share from 38.75 euros and also ruled that Italy's Enel and
Spanish building group Acciona had to wait six months from the
end of the acceptance period before launching a counterbid for
Endesa.


Those two firms together own 46 percent of Endesa.


The CMNV's refusal to give the green light to an Enel-Acciona bid
prompted Conthe to step down, he explained earlier this week,
saying he felt the regulator lacked independent room for
manoeuvre from the government over the Endesa saga.


Conthe said he felt some members of the CMNV's board had a
"conflict of interest" regarding "the desire of the government to
see the (German) takeover bid fail" set against their own need to
act independently of the executive.


In his farewell address Conthe warmly praised Segura, who comes
to the post with the experience gained from being a university
professor of economics and also 12 years spent as a bank of Spain
advisor.


Segura was active in the Spanish Communist Party in his youth and
has taught several of Spain's leading economists, including the
ruling Socialist candidate for the Madrid mayoralty, Miguel
Sebastian.

