

Metal prices fell this week as the dollar rallied briefly
Thursday, but losses were limited by the US unit going on to
strike a record low against the euro a day later.


A stronger US unit decreases demand for dollar-denominated
commodities, such as gold, since they become more expensive for
buyers using other currencies.


The market largely overlooked data that showed the US economy
grew by 1.3 percent in the first quarter, the slowest pace in
four years.


The European single currency jumped to a historic high of 1.3682
dollars on Friday after new data revealed a marked slowdown in US
economic growth.


The record -- which beat the previous pinnacle of 1.3666 dollars
that was set on December 30, 2004 -- was caused by expectations
of higher interest rates in the eurozone as the European economy
outpaces the United States, analysts said.


OIL: Crude oil prices climbed on concerns over tight US gasoline
reserves heading into the peak-demand season for American motor
fuel.


Gasoline is in focus ahead of the so-called US driving season,
which starts next month, when many Americans take to their
automobiles for the summer holidays.


The US Department of Energy revealed this week that motor fuel
reserves sank by 2.8 million barrels in the week ending April 20.


That marked the 11th consecutive weekly drop for gasoline
inventories and compared with market expectations for a lighter
fall of just 500,000 barrels.


Traders meanwhile set aside data on Friday that showed a dramatic
slowdown in the United States economy, which weakened in the
first quarter of 2007 to its worst growth pace in four years,
expanding at a pace of just 1.3 percent.


However, crude futures held firm despite the prospect of reduced
demand in the world's biggest energy-consuming nation.


Prices had retreated Thursday on signs that Iran and the European
Union had made progress in nuclear talks, traders said.


Iran is the world's fourth-largest oil exporter. Traders fear
that Western pressure over Iran's disputed nuclear programme
could prompt the Islamic republic to cut crude exports in
retaliation.


Elsewhere, traders tracked the fall-out from the recent
presidential elections in Nigeria, which is Africa's biggest
crude oil producer.


Nigeria's current production is down an estimated 25 percent
owing to violence in the crude-rich Niger Delta.


By Friday in London, a barrel of Brent North Sea crude for
delivery in June increased to 67.66 dollars, compared with 66.30
dollars a week earlier.


In New York, a barrel of crude for delivery in June rose to 65.30
dollars from 62.70 dollars.


GOLD: The price of gold hit a near one-year high of 694.25
dollars on Monday owing to a weak dollar. The precious metal then
fell sharply on Thursday as the dollar managed a modest rebound
ahead of Friday's key reading on US economic growth.


"The fall in prices was triggered by the dollar gaining relative
strength," Barclays Capital analyst Kevin Norrish said.


"End of month profit-taking appears to have started a little
early in commodities," he added.


On the London Bullion Market, gold prices dropped to 677.50
dollars an ounce at Friday's late fixing, from 691.40 dollars a
week earlier.


SILVER: Silver prices mirrored the movement of gold.


"Silver suffered at the hands of the general metal sell-off. It
too has encountered profit-taking," BNP Paribas analyst David
Thurtell said.


On the London Bullion Market, silver prices slid to 13.35 dollars
an ounce at Friday's late fixing, from 13.87 dollars a week
earlier.


PALLADIUM AND PLATINUM: Sister metals palladium and platinum hit
multi-month peaks before falling in line with other precious
metals.


Platinum hit 1,339 dollars an ounce on Monday, the highest level
since November. Palladium reached 387 dollars an ounce, last seen
on May 17 last year.


On the London Platinum and Palladium Market, platinum decreased
to 1,281 dollars an ounce at the late fixing Friday, from 1,317 a
week earlier.


Palladium dropped to 371 dollars an ounce, from 382 dollars.


BASE METALS: Base metals, led by copper, saw their prices drop
after Thursday's rebound by the dollar.


"Base metals weakened across the board," said Thurtell of BNP
Paribas.


"A rise in the greenback (dollar) appears to have had much to do
with the sell- off."


On Friday, three-month copper prices fell to 7,700 dollars a
tonne on the LME, from 8,000 dollars a week earlier.


Three-month aluminium prices slid to 2,817 dollars a tonne from
2,856.50 dollars.


Three-month nickel prices decreased to 47,900 dollars a tonne
from 48,850 dollars.


Three-month lead prices rose to 1,991.50 dollars a tonne from
1,976 dollars.


Three-month zinc prices slipped to 3,685 dollars a tonne from
3,701 dollars.


Three-month tin prices declined to 13,200 dollars a tonne from
13,900 dollars.


GRAINS AND SOYA: Grains and soya prices steadied as the market
continued to take its lead from weather conditions around the
world.


"Wheat continues to be supported because of the weather problems
-- it's too dry in Australia, France, Germany, and (such
conditions are) starting to show some problems in Ukraine and
Russia," Allendale analyst Joe Victor said.


By Friday on the Chicago Board of Trade, the price of maize for
May delivery edged up to 3.62 dollars a bushel, from 3.61
dollars.


Wheat for May delivery dipped to 4.95 dollars a bushel, from 5.02
dollars a week earlier.


May-dated soyabean meal -- used in animal feed -- gained to 7.24
dollars, from 7.23 dollars.


On the LIFFE, London's futures exchange, the price per tonne of
wheat for May delivery rose to 100.30 pounds, compared with 98.75
pounds the previous week.


COFFEE: Coffee prices tumbled to a six-month low in New York as
speculators banked profits.


Coffee futures hit 106.75 US cents a pound Thursday, the lowest
level since October 20.


By Friday on the LIFFE, Robusta quality for July delivery fell to
1,614 dollars a tonne, compared with 1,626 dollars a week
earlier.


On the NYBOT, Arabica for July delivery dropped to 107.10 US
cents a pound, from 110.65 cents.


COCOA: Cocoa prices slid.


"Prices have been under pressure recently as fears over the dry
weather in West Africa have eased," Sucden analyst Michael Davies
said.


By Friday on the LIFFE, the price of cocoa for July delivery
retreated to 981 pounds a tonne, from 1,020 pounds a week
earlier.


On the New York Board of Trade (NYBOT), the July contract fell to
1,820 dollars a tonne, from 1,905 dollars for May delivery.


SUGAR: Sugar prices extended losses owing to expectations of a
large surplus for the sweet commodity.


By Friday on the LIFFE, the price per tonne of white sugar for
August delivery fell to 307 dollars, from 311.20 dollars a week
earlier.


On the NYBOT, the price of unrefined sugar for July delivery
decreased to 9.18 US cents a pound, from 9.57 cents.

