

Wall Street opened mostly lower Friday as a weaker-than-expected
reading on US economic growth in the first quarter sparked
jitters and prompted investors to consolidate recent gains.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average lost 24.22 points (0.18 percent)
to 13,081.28 in the first exchanges a day after hitting a fresh
record closing high.


The tech-heavy Nasdaq composite index was virtually flat, gaining
a fractional 0.08 points to 2,554.54 and the broad-market
Standard and Poor's 500 index shed 2.46 points (0.16 percent) to
1,491.79.


The market action came just after the government reported US
gross domestic product (GDP) growth cooled dramatically to a 1.3
percent pace in the first quarter of 2007, highlighting concerns
about a weakening US economy.


"The first-quarter real GDP report has served as a reminder that
the good earnings trends for the first quarter may not continue
into the second and third quarter," said Dick Green, analyst at
Briefing.com.


But Peter Morici, economist at the University of Maryland, said
the economic news may not be as bad as it seems, with most of the
weakness concentrated in the housing sector, and consumer
spending still strong.


"Consumers continued to hold up the economy. With housing sales
slowing, consumers have more money to devote to improving the
homes they own and purchasing automobiles, furniture, clothing,
and meals in restaurants," he said.


Additionally, he said the weak dollar may draw in more foreign
capital to the market and helps corporate earnings.


"A weaker dollar makes US equities a particular bargain for
foreign investors, especially in Europe," Morici said, as the
euro jumped to a historic high of 1.3682 dollars seconds after
the US GDP release.


"Large US multinationals earning significant shares of their
profits in Asia will prove a great play for Europeans who sit on
strong euros and pounds but have few good investment options at
home."

