

A Spanish judge charged three US soldiers on Friday with killing
Spanish cameraman Jose Couso, who died when a US unit shelled the
Palestine Hotel in Baghdad four years ago, a legal source said.


Judge Santiago Pedraz of the National Court had previously issued
two international arrest warrants for US Sergeant Thomas Gibson,
Captain Philip Wolford and Lieutenant Colonel Philip de Camp.


The US administration has so far not responded to the judge's
attempts to make the trio face a Spanish court hearing and his
latest attempt to bring the three to trial is likely to also fall
on deaf ears in Washington.


Spanish judicial officials cited the three as responsible for the
tank shelling of the hotel where Couso, who worked for private
Spanish television Telecinco, was staying.


Another cameraman, Ukrainian Taras Protsyuk, died in the shelling
while three other staff members of the Reuters news agency were
wounded in the April 8, 2003 incident.


A first arrest warrant was issued in October 2005, with judge
Pedraz then saying that the "presence" of the three US soldiers
was required in the investigation as there had been "zero
cooperation from American authorities".


The second warrant issued on January 16, 2007 followed a Supreme
Court decision in December last year to order a new investigation
into the death of the cameraman, at the request of Couso's
family.


A US inquiry carried out in 2004 into the tank shelling of the
hotel found no fault or negligence on the part of its troops.


A report obtained by the media advocacy group Reporters Without
Borders found that "the shelling was directed against what was
taken for an enemy firing and observation position."


According to the charge sheet seen by AFP the incident could be
seen as " constituting a crime against the international
community ... and (one of) assassination."

