

South Africans are confronted with almost unimaginable violence
which has left communities living in a state of terror 13 years
on from apartheid, President Thabo Mbeki said Friday.


In an address to mark the 13th anniversary of South Africa's
first ever multi- racial elections, Mbeki said the country still
faced a major challenge to overcome the legacies of apartheid
including continuing racism and poverty.


But the president, who has been accused of failing to acknowledge
the deep concerns about crime, devoted most of his speech to
urging his fellow citizens to play a leading role in the fight
against law-breakers of all kinds.


"There is a minority in our country who have made crime their
business, who terrorise our communities, robbing our people of
their hard-earned valuables, raping women and children and in the
process using unimaginable violence on law- abiding citizens of
our country," said Mbeki.


"There are those who are engaged in drug-trafficking ... of those
who steal public and private money, those engaged in corrupt
activities and thus deny our people, especially the poor, the
possibility of realising a better life sooner rather than later,"
he added in a speech near the coastal city of East London.


South Africa is now one of the most crime-ridden countries in the
world with violent crime a particular concern and around 50
murders committed each day.


Mbeki was widely derided earlier this year when he denied that
most South Africans thought crime was spiralling out of control
but he has since gone out of his way to acknowledge concerns.


The president urged people not to "sit on the sidelines", but to
expose neighbours and relatives they know to be involved in
crime.


"Together let us identify those who steal and sell stolen goods;
let us expose those who sell and use drugs; let us expose those
who rape and abuse women and children. And then let us report
them to the police," he said.

