

At least one government soldier was killed in fighting with
rebels in the Central African Republic, only days after the
siging of a peace deal with a major insurgent group, a military
source said Friday.


The source said the soldier died when rebels of the People's Army
for the Restoration of the Republic and Democracy (APRD) attacked
a military convoy at Bang, 500 kilometres (300 miles) northwest
of the capital, on April 17.


The attacks sparked clashes in a number of places, causing
residents to flee across the nearby border into Cameroon and
Chad, other sources said.


Local member of parliament Luc-Apollinaire Dondon Konamabaye of
the opposition Centrafrican People's Liberation Movement, said
houses had been burned and villages razed.


The APRD, formed in 2005, is one of a number of groups opposed to
President Francois Bozize which have been fighting the government
across the north of the country.


The fighting over the last two years has led to numerous deaths
and the displacement of more than 280,000 people, according to
the United Nations.


The country's army has also been accused of violent acts against
civilians in the north.


On April 13 the authorities signed an accord with the Union of
Democratic Forces for Unity rebels that called for an "immediate
end to hostilities" and granted amnesty for rebel fighters.


The government has been assisted by a multinational force from
other states in the region as well as the French air force in its
attempts to repel rebel groups and reduce bandit attacks in the
north.


There have also been fears that conflict in neighbouring Sudan's
Darfur region could spill over into the CAR. The United Nations
children's agency, UNICEF, has warned of a "humanitarian
disaster" in the CAR, amid fears that the country is being
increasingly affected by the conflict in Sudan.


Bozize came to power following a 2003 coup.

