

A planned US anti-missile shield in eastern Europe that has
bitterly divided Russia and NATO needs to cover the entire
continent, the foreign minister of NATO member Greece said
Friday.


"The anti-missile zone must cover all of Europe and all NATO
member states," Greek Foreign Minister Dora Bakoyannis said
during NATO-Russia talks in Oslo, Norway, according to the Athens
News Agency (ANA).


But Bakoyannis added that Russia's objections should be heard.


"All of Russia's concerns must be addressed, and the fact that
this anti-missile system is defensive and not directed against
Russia must be stressed," she said.


Washington claims that the role of the US interceptor missiles
would be to shoot down missiles from countries such as Iran or
North Korea, rather than from Russia.


But the dispute over the US plan escalated on Thursday as Russia
froze a key defence treaty in a move that raised "grave concern"
among NATO allies.


In heated NATO talks in Oslo, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei
Lavrov warned that Russia was to halt its application of the
Conventional Forces in Europe (CFE) treaty and could even pull
out if the allies did not endorse it.


The CFE treaty was signed in 1990 in Paris by the countries of
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and the former
Warsaw Pact to limit troop and hardware deployments in Europe.


Lavrov noted that the shield leaves gaps in its coverage of
Europe, with Bulgaria, Greece, Romania and Turkey undefended.


Greece on Friday ruled out the prospect of installing part of the
system on its soil.


"The issue of installing parts of the anti-missile shield in
Greece has not, is not, and will not be raised," the Greek
foreign ministry said.

