

India's foreign investment body on Friday cleared Vodafone's 11.1
-billion-dollar plan to buy mobile phone operator Hutchison
Essar.


The decision had been delayed three times by the government as it
scrutinised Vodafone's deal to purchase India's fourth-largest
mobile company to see whether it complied with the country's
foreign investment limits.


"We are fully satisfied with the compliance level," Ajay Dua,
secretary of the Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion,
told reporters after a meeting of the Foreign Investment
Promotion Board in the Indian capital.


Britain's Vodafone Group Plc agreed in February to buy Hong Kong-
based Hutchison Telecommunications International Ltd's (HTIL)
67-percent controlling interest in Hutchison Essar.


But Indian officials afterwards queried the extent of the foreign
stake in Hutchison Essar and held up approval of the deal that is
central to Vodafone's strategy of seeking new markets away from
saturated developed countries.


Indian rules allow foreign ownership of up to 74 percent in a
domestic telecom firm.


Vodafone, the world's biggest mobile phone company, had said it
is directly buying 52 percent of Hutchison Essar while options on
stakes held by local partners would give it another 15 percent.


The balance of 33 percent is held by Indian steel-to-shipping
conglomerate Essar but two-thirds of its stake is in turn
controlled through an offshore company for tax reasons,
classifying it as foreign.


The controversy arose after it was alleged that the 15 percent
stake belonging to the local partners was indirectly held by
HTIL.


This would have meant that the total foreign ownership in
Hutchison Essar breached the 74 per cent limit.


However, the foreign investment panel ruled that this 15 percent
stake was held by resident Indians and not by any foreign player.

