

The euro, or European single currency, hit a historic high of
1.3682 dollars on Friday and also hit a new record against its
Japanese counterpart of 162.88 yen.


Both records were reached following weak US economic growth data,
published on Friday, and amid expectations that strong European
growth will lead to further interest rate rises in the eurozone.


The United States economy expanded at a worse-than-expected 1.3
percent rate in the first quarter of 2007 -- marking the slowest
period of growth in four years.


A total of 13 countries have adopted the euro since its birth on
January 1, 1999.


The 12 countries which joined at its inception were: Austria,
Belgium, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy,
Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal and Spain. Slovenia joined
on January 1, 2007 following its admittance to the European Union
in 2004.


A total of 14 EU member states are not in the euro club,
including Western economies Britain, Denmark and Sweden, who
opted out from the start.


Here are key milestones in the euro's history:


-- December 31, 1998: Announcement of conversion rates for the
euro against individual national currencies. Replacement of the
European Currency Unit by the euro at the rate of one ECU for one
euro.


-- January 1, 1999: The euro arrives, though only on paper.
Payments -- salaries, purchases, currency transfers, etc. -- may
be made in euros, electronically or via cheques and money orders,
though notes and coins do not yet exist.


-- January 4, 1999: The euro is quoted on foreign exchange
markets. For three years, all money values may be expressed
either in euros or national currency on a voluntary basis.


-- October 26, 2002: The euro falls to its historic low against
the dollar of 0.8230 dollars.


-- January 1, 2002: Introduction of euro notes and coins, and
gradual withdrawal of national currencies among member states.


-- June 30, 2002: End of period during which both euro and
national currencies may circulate in parallel. Beyond this date,
and for a fixed period of months, national notes and coins will
be exchangeable only at banks.


-- July 1, 2002: The euro becomes the single currency.


-- December 30, 2004: The euro climbs to a then record high
against the dollar of 1.3666 dollars.


-- November 15, 2005: In a correction, the euro falls as low as
1.1640 dollars.


-- January 1, 2007: Slovenia joins the euro, becoming the first
former communist state to adopt the European Union's common
currency.


-- April 27, 2007: The euro hits a peak of 162.88 yen


-- April 27, 2007: The euro touches a fresh record high point of
1.3682 dollars.

