

UN chief Ban Ki-moon called on Russia and Estonia to resolve
their dispute over the removal of a Soviet war memorial from the
Estonian capital "in a spirit of respect and conciliation."


Ban also lamented violence in Tallinn that left one person dead
and dozens injured before the memorial to Red Army soldiers was
removed, his spokeswoman, Michele Montas, said in a brief
statement.


"The Secretary-General regrets the violence and the loss of life
in Tallinn, Estonia. He appeals to all concerned to deal with the
issues at hand in a spirit of respect and conciliation," Montas
said.


Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov accused the Estonian
government of fomenting tensions by removing the memorial, while
the Russian Senate called for diplomatic relations with Estonia
to be broken off.


Estonian authorities removed the Soviet war memorial from the
center of the capital under cover of darkness early Friday.


Around 1,000 mainly pro-Russian demonstrators had gathered late
Thursday in the square in central Tallinn where the authorities
had cordoned off the 2.5-metre (eight-feet) high bronze figure of
a soldier.


The demonstration turned into a six-hour riot and police used
water cannons, rubber batons and flash grenades to disperse the
crowd.


Ethnic Estonians see the statue of the Bronze Soldier as a symbol
of 50 years of Soviet occupation, while Russia considers it a
symbol of the fight against Nazism in World War II.


Relations between Estonia and Russia have been tense since the
Baltic state regained independence. Moscow has repeatedly accused
Estonia of abusing the rights of its large ethnic Russian
minority.

