

The UN children's agency condemned on Friday the shelling of a
hospital in Mogadishu as military forces and insurgents engaged
in some of the heaviest fighting in the city's history.


UNICEF said mortar fire hit the hospital in the Somali capital on
Thursday, resulting in an undetermined number of victims. The
hospital is run by aid organisation SOS.


One of the hospital units hit had housed people injured in the
conflict, which has killed some 400 and displaced an estimated
400,000.


The origin of the hospital shelling was unclear, said UNICEF
spokeswoman Veronique Taveau.


"Where is the accountability in this conflict? Every day
thousands of displaced people -- most of them women and children
-- are living a nightmare of violence," UNICEF's representative
in Somalia, Christian Balslev-Olesen, said in a statement.


UNICEF said minors have been victims of "indiscriminate" shooting
and shelling in Mogadishu. Many people lack food and shelter and
are experiencing health problems because of poor sanitation, it
said.


The organisation said it has been unable to access its warehouse
in the Somali capital because of security concerns and it
demanded better access to those who have fled the fighting.


Looting broke out across Mogadishu on Friday after Ethiopian
forces, who are backing Somalia's government, took control of
insurgent strongholds.


The recent fighting was some of the heaviest since the 1991
ouster of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre exploded into a bloody
power struggle that has defied numerous attempts to restore
stability.

