

International Energy Agency chief Claude Mandil warned Friday
that there was no "silver bullet" that could allow the world to
cut greenhouse gas emissions enough to combat climate change.


Mandil said that the full range of measures, including cleaner
biofuels, renewable energy sources, carbon stockage, nuclear
power and more efficient use of existing energy sources must be
deployed to cut one billion tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions a
year.


"All that is not to tell you it's impossible - it's to say
there's no silver bullet, not one technology alone," Mandil told
a UN meeting on energy efficiency here.


Current fossil-fuel dominated energy demand increases carbon
dioxide emissions by one billion tonnes every two years and will
grow by more than 50 percent by 2030 if the pattern of
consumption remains unchanged, according to IEA data.


"This is not sustainable," Mandil reiterated.


Even very basic energy savings like phasing out wasteful
incandescent light bulbs from 2008 and better street lighting
could make significant inroads, the IEA chief argued.


The global cost of lighting could be reduced by 2.6 trillion
dollars by 2030 and a cumulative 16 billion tonnes of carbon
dioxide could be saved, according to the agency.


"The difference could reach one-third of lighting costs in 2030,"
Mandil said. "The additional investment costs would easily be
offset by consumption savings."


Mandil underlined that energy saving measures were the most
immediate step that could be taken while others like cleaner new
fuels would take more time to phase in or develop technically and
economically.


But none of the technological steps could be implemented on such
a scale where they could tackle greenhouse gas emissions on their
own.


About 78 percent of carbon dioxide savings were likely to come
from more efficient use of energy and 22 percent from cleaner
energy sources by 2030, according to the agency.

