

The Swiss engineering group Sulzer said on Friday that it had
decided to halt its takeover bid for British thermal processing
firm Bodycote International after repeated approaches were turned
down.


"Sulzer AG announces that it is no longer considering making an
offer for Bodycote International PLC," the Swiss group said in a
statement.


Sulzer had earlier on Friday raised its offer for the specialist
British firm twice from the original 325 pence per share to 346.5
pence, valuing the group at 1.14 billion pounds (1.67 billion
euros).


"However, despite Sulzer's repeated attempts to engage in a
constructive and friendly dialogue with Bodycote's Board ... no
agreement on a recommended transaction could be reached with the
Board of Bodycote," the statement added.


Sulzer had insisted since March 2 that its bid was conditioned on
a recommendation by Bodycote's board to shareholders.


However, Sulzer said it reserved the right to make an offer again
in the next six months.


Bodycote is a leading provider of thermal processing services and
metallurgical coatings. Sulzer produces a range of engineering
products including specialised metallurgical coatings.


Bodycote made a net profit of 35.1 million pounds last year on a
turnover of 558.6 million pounds.


Sulzer announced a 73-percent increase in annual net profit in
2006 to 221 million Swiss francs (138 million euros, 181 million
dollars) on a turnover of 2.8 billion Swiss francs.


Russian billionaire Victor Vekselberg's industrial and metals
giant Renova Group announced last week that it was buying a
holding totalling about 32 percent in Sulzer for an undisclosed
amount.

