

The German presidency of the European Union expressed "serious
concern" Friday about the political crisis in Ukraine and
urgently called on the parties involve to reach an accord.


"The latest developments give rise to fears that the willingness
of the feuding parties to work together to find ways out of the
political crisis is diminishing," it said in a statement released
in Berlin.


"Against this background, the presidency of the European Union
urgently calls on all those involved to continue political talks
and to further undertake all possible endeavours to reach a joint
solution."


The presidency said it welcomed the fact that the Ukrainian media
had been able to report on the crisis "without any restrictions"
and that freedom of speech and the right to demonstrate had been
respected.


Parliamentary opponents of President Viktor Yushchenko seized the
initiative Friday in an ongoing power struggle, asking the
country's top court to dismiss his new order to dissolve
parliament.


The pro-Western Yushchenko has been locked in a stand-off with
supporters of the pro-Russian Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych
since April 2, when the president first ordered the dissolution
of parliament and early elections.


Yanukovych has defied the order, and the president issued a
second decree Thursday, pushing back the early election date
until June 24.


The stand-off is being closely watched by outside powers anxious
about the political course of the country of 47 million people,
located between the EU and NATO to the west and Russia to the
east.

