

Nigeria's Supreme Court on Friday voided the removal of a state
governor who fled London on money laundering charges in November
2004, the official News Agency of Nigeria said Friday.


In a ruling in Abuja the country's highest court upheld an
earlier court of appeal judgement that Plateau state parliament
should not have impeached Joshua Dariye on corruption charges in
November 2006 without forming a quorum.


The court said the legislators did not follow "due process" in
the governor's removal and ordered his immediate reinstatement.


It was not clear Friday whether Dariye, who has barely one month
to the end of his tenure on May 29, would actually get back his
job.


Nigeria went to the polls on April 14 to elect state governors to
succeed incumbent office holders in the 36 states of the
federation.


A new governor has been elected for the central Plateau state and
he is due to be sworn in next month.


When Dariye was arrested in 2004 in London the sum of one million
pounds (1.9 million dollars, 1.5 million euros) was found in his
hotel room. He was briefly detained, then granted bail, but fled
London to escape trial.


The runaway governor was impeached by a faction of the Plateau
parliament, but went to court to challenge the action, arguing
that the chamber did not meet the constitutional requirement of
two-thirds.


Several governors have been sacked for corruption since 1999 when
Nigeria returned to civil rule, while as many as 31 out of 36
governors have been investigated for corruption by the anti-graft
agency EFCC.

