

British stock market watchers will keep watch on fresh takeover
news next week amid more company results that are headed by
Anglo-Dutch oil behemoth Royal Dutch Shell.


London's FTSE 100 index of leading shares finished at 6,418.70
points on Friday, down 68.1 points or 1.05 percent from a week
earlier.


Despite the downwards trend, the past week has seen merger and
acquisition news hit the headlines once again.


The burgeoning battle for control of Dutch banking giant ABN Amro
saw British banks Barclays and the Royal Bank of Scotland pitted
against each other in a high-stakes takeover.


A European banking consortium led by RBS has proposed to buy ABN
Amro for about 72 billion euros (98.4 billion dollars).


That has brought into question a recommended deal from Barclays
that is worth some 67 billion euros.


"It is very hard to see how Barclays' agreed deal will proceed,"
said Magnus Mathewson, an analyst at stockbrokers Hichens
Harrison.


He added that the "pressure is now on Barclays" to improve its
offer.


In the retail sector, Qatari investment fund Delta Limited
snapped up almost one fifth of the shares in J Sainsbury,
Britain's third biggest supermarket chain.


That made the Gulf state of Qatar the leading shareholder in
Sainsbury, which has been dogged by takeover talk in recent
weeks.


Next week investors will seek gains amid the latest results from
a handful of major blue-chip companies.


In the energy sector, oil titan Royal Dutch Shell and BG Group
publish their first-quarter figures.


Earlier this week, energy giant BP had revealed that its profits
dived in the first quarter owing to lower crude oil prices and a
fall in production.


BP said net profit in the January-March period sank 17 percent
from the same quarter of 2006 to 4.664 billion dollars (3.440
billion euros).


Other companies publishing their latest numbers next week include
British satellite broadcaster BSkyB and cigarette maker Imperial
Tobacco.

