

Ireland's coalition government led by Prime Minister Bertie Ahern
would lose the forthcoming general election, according to the
latest opinion poll published Friday.


Three national opinion polls in the last week have indicated that
support for Ahern's party has been slipping and the main
opposition Fine Gael party has been gaining.


Ahern and his centrist Fianna Fail-Progressive Democrats alliance
have been in power since 1997.


Speculation about the date of a general election has been intense
in recent weeks with many analysts forecasting May 24 as the most
likely.


"The election will be shortly. The calling of it is just a
technicality," Ahern told RTE state radio.


Friday's Irish Times TNS mrbi opinion poll showed that an
opposition coalition was now ahead.


An increase of five percent in support for Fine Gael since the
last Irish Times poll in January means that a Fine Gael-Labour
alternative has pulled four points ahead of the Fianna Fail-
Progressive Democrats coalition.


If the Green Party is included, the alternative government
parties have a lead of 10 percent over Ahern's coalition.


The poll shows that satisfaction with the government has dropped
five points to 43 percent from 48 percent in January.


Ahern said the only way his government could be beaten was by a
"conglomeration of a whole lot of parties" of different shades of
political opinion.


"Sometimes people could foolishly think anyone could run it (the
country). God forbid if they find out the other side of it (the
election) the mistake they made. Let's hope they don't make that
mistake," he said.


Ahern has presided over the main years of the so-called Celtic
Tiger economic boom which has seen Ireland transformed into a
prosperous country with job opportunities that have attracted
immigrants from all over the world.


He has also patiently negotiated for years with his British
counterpart Tony Blair to achieve a peaceful settlement in
Northern Ireland.

