

The World Bank has agreed to loans of 360 million dollars for
Uganda to build a hydropower station on the River Nile, in one of
the country's most ambitious power projects, officials said on
Friday.


Despite opposition to the project from environmentalists, the
World Bank said it was supporting the dam to help close the
country's energy supply gap, which "seriously constrains social
and economic development", the bank's Kampala office said in a
statement.


"Uganda's workforce is expected to double over the next 15 years,
making the creation of jobs through expanded industry, tourism,
and commercial services critical," said Judy O'Connor, World Bank
Country Director for Uganda, in the statement.


"These sectors are energy intensive and will therefore rely on a
consistent, affordable, and expanding power supply," she said.


The cost of the project at Bujagali, on the River Nile, has been
revised upwards from an initial 550 million dollars to almost 800
million.


Private company Bujagali Energy Ltd is due to construct the dam
with further funding from sources to be guaranteed by the World
Bank.


The project ran into trouble in 2003 after environmentalists
argued that it would destroy a network of waterfalls -- a major
tourism and water rafting attraction, and a site of special
spiritual significance to the local population.


On completion, the power project would increase Uganda's capacity
to export power to Kenya, Rwanda and Tanzania, as well as
generate up to 250 megawatts, in addition to the 380 megawatts
produced at two existing hydroelectric plants.

