

French car maker Renault said Friday its first-quarter sales fell
2.7 percent to 10.256 billion euros (13.942 billion dollars), as
a sharp decline in European sales led to a 3.8 percent drop in
the number of cars sold worldwide.


Renault said in a statement it sold 597,600 cars around the world
in the first quarter against 621,400 in the same period of last
year.


It explained the decrease "essentially by a negative contribution
from France and Europe for which the improvement in the group's
activities outside Europe did not compensate."


Despite the drop, Renault said it expected sales to be stable
over this year compared with 2006, due to prospects in markets in
India, Iran, Brazil and Russia.


Renault shares rose in late morning trading by 1.00 percent to
98.84 euros on the results, which were lower than analysts'
expectations. The overall French CAC 40 market sank slightly 0.05
percent.


Renault said European car sales fell 8.5 percent, citing the
impact of its product cycle, with low-cost unit Dacia raising
sales of its Logan models by 26.9 percent.


Outside Europe, car sales rose 9.1 percent, driven by 28.4
percent growth in the Americas region, notably Argentina, Brazil
and Venezuela.


The Euromed zone, which comprises Eastern Europe, Russia, Central
Asia, Turkey and North Africa, saw auto sales rise 4.9 percent,
led by a 67.5 percent jump in Logan sales in Russia.


In Africa and Asia, sales slipped 2.3 percent, affected by a 4.2
percent fall in sales of Renault cars.


On Thursday French automaker PSA Peugeot Citroen, also facing
stagnant sales in Europe, said it would cut 4,800 jobs in France
this year through voluntary departures and retirements.


It attributed the move "to a context marked by a stagnation in
sales in Europe over the last four years and a decline in
profitability."


Peugeot shares led the Paris stock exchange in late morning
trade, gaining 2.08 percent to 59.75 euros.

