

Some 1,000 people rallied in Bangkok Friday to protest against
Thailand's military-backed government, which came to power after
a September coup that ousted premier Thaksin Shinawatra.


Defying rain, the crowd of mostly middle-aged men and women
gathered at Bangkok's Sanam Luang plaza for the demonstration
organised by allies of Thaksin, who has remained in self-exile
abroad since the putsch.


"Since the coup, our economy has been going downhill," a male
protester shouted from a makeshift stage at the plaza, while some
1,000 policemen stood guard. So far there were no skirmishes
between police and protesters.


The protest came as the army-installed government has come under
increasing criticism over a number of policy miscues, including
its economic management and an escalating insurgency in the
kingdom's Muslim-majority south.


Pojana Thairattana, a 56-year-old office worker, said her
family's restaurant business had suffered since the coup, which
toppled the twice-elected government of Thaksin, a business savvy
premier.


"I am here to show the junta that many people don't support this
government. Nothing really has improved since the coup," Pojana
said.


Hit by post-coup political worries and depressed consumer
confidence, Thailand's economy is seen rising only 3.8-4.8
percent in 2007, the lowest growth in six years.


Analysts have warned that economic frustration among the public
could trigger a mass demonstration against the junta as the
country's business leaders have urged the government to take
action to shore up the sagging economy.


The protest movement is also beginning to create an odd coalition
of allies, with some pro-democracy groups who last year
demonstrated against Thaksin now joining forces with his allies
in protesting against the junta, they said.

