

Europe's main stock markets headed lower on Thursday in cautious
trade ahead of a decision on eurozone interest rates, dealers
said.


The European Central Bank was forecast Thursday to leave rates
unchanged at 3.75 percent -- but was expected to signal further
tightening in the months ahead, analysts said. A decision was due
at 1145 GMT.


In late morning trade, London's FTSE 100 index of leading shares
fell 0.48 percent to 6,382.30 points, Frankfurt's DAX 30 shed
0.57 percent to 7,111.96 points and in Paris the CAC 40 dropped
0.62 percent to 5,716.11.


The DJ Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone blue chip shares declined
0.71 percent to 4,262.51 points.


The euro stood at 1.3454 dollars.


US stocks sank Wednesday as investors were shaken by Federal
Reserve minutes suggesting a rate hike remains on the table, and
a downgrade in the US economic outlook by the International
Monetary Fund.


Japanese share prices retreated Thursday on the heels of Wall
Street on lingering worries over rising US rates and growth.


Investors track higher interest rates because they increase
companies' borrowing costs.


In London on Thursday, British brewing giant Scottish and
Newcastle saw its shares slump 3.26 percent to 579 pence after
peer SABMiller dismissed rumours that it was planning to launch a
takeover bid.


Shares in SABMiller rose 1.43 percent to 1,135 pence after the
group issued a positive trading update.


The share price of J Sainsbury plunged 1.05 percent to 520.5
pence, one day after private equity groups Blackstone, CVC and
Texas Pacific Group abandoned their consortium takeover plans for
the supermarket group.


In Frankfurt, DaimlerChrysler shares tumbled 2.26 percent to
60.59 euros after Canadian auto parts maker Magna International
confirmed it was in talks to acquire the group's embattled US
arm, according to a report in The Globe and Mail.


In US deals on Wednesday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average
slumped 0.71 percent to close at 12,484.62 points.


The Nasdaq composite skidded 0.74 percent to 2,459.31 points and
the Standard and Poor's 500 broad-market index retreated 0.66
percent to 1,438.87.


The market opened weaker and the selloff gained momentum after
the US Federal Reserve released minutes from its March 20-21
meeting at which members expressed concerns about "uncomfortably"
high inflation.


In Asia on Thursday, the Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index
of leading shares closed down 0.73 percent to 17,540.42 points.
Hong Kong's key Hang Seng Index ended 0.34 percent lower at
20,380.21.

