

Islamic militants are likely planning a "terrorist" attack
somewhere on the southern Philippines island of Mindanao this
month, police warned Thursday.


National police chief Oscar Calderon raised the "threat level" on
the Muslim- populated western section of the island to "high" due
to the "continuing threat from Abu Sayyaf, Jemaah Islamiyah and
Al-Qaeda terrorist groups," a police statement said.


The "terrorist threat in the said region will remain high for the
month of April," it said without elaborating.


Calderon said in the statement the terrorist threat against
Manila this month was "moderate" but police would implement
"Level Three public safety measures" to ensure the threat was
minimised.


These measures included intelligence operations and 24-hour
roadblocks at city entrances conducting vehicle searches, the
statement added.


Meanwhile, two soldiers were killed during a clash with the Abu
Sayyaf Islamic militant group on the southern island of Jolo, off
Mindanao on Wednesday, military spokesman Lieutenant Colonel
Bartolome Bacarro told reporters Thursday.


Government forces have been conducting operations there to track
down two Jemaah Islamiyah bomb makers being sheltered by the Abu
Sayyaf, but the two suspects, Dulmatin and Umar Patek, escaped a
military raid on Monday.


The two were allegedly involved in the deadly 2002 Bali bombings.
The US government has an 11-million-dollar bounty offered for
their capture.


More than 8,000 Filipino troops are on Jolo on instructions from
President Gloria Arroyo to crush the Abu Sayyaf.


The group has been blamed for a series of bomb attacks in the
Philippines in recent years, as well as high-profile kidnappings
of foreigners and missionaries.


Since the military operation began last September, the group's
two top leaders have been killed and the remaining members, said
to number around 400, have splintered into smaller units trying
to evade government forces.

