

British police arrested 23 people in a pre-dawn drugs and
firearms raid Thursday on a Rastafarian temple in southeast
London.


Police acting on search warrants issued under drugs and firearms
legislation raided the temple in Kennington at 3:10 am (0210
GMT), the Metropolitan Police said in a statement.


"These premises have been used in part as a Rastafarian Temple,
however, it is believed that a high level of serious criminality
has been operating from here which is adversely affecting the
local communities," it said.


Lambeth Borough Commander Chief Superintendent Martin Bridger
said the raid followed weeks of surveillance at four terraced
houses decorated in the green, yellow and red colours of
Rastafarianism.


He said Rastafarian leaders had approached and informed him that
suspected drug dealers had taken over the premises in recent
months.


Bridger said the police operation began last October and
culminated in 24-hour surveillance over the past eight weeks
after officers had gathered evidence against a "core"' of around
a dozen people suspected of drug dealing.


Bridger said evidence included footage of a man waving a handgun
outside the premises.


"In the past few weeks we've arrested around 200 people coming
away from the premises and they have even had cannabis or crack
cocaine on them," Bridger added.


"We have had up to 600 people visit on some days and we suspect
that most people were using it to buy drugs," he said.


Bridger said neighboring buildings had been demolished in 2005
and the council was trying to find a new site for the Rastafarian
temple.


He said members of the Rastafarian community had not been
involved in Thursday's raid, even though they had gone to police
about their concerns over the use of the buildings.

