

Syria and Israel could clinch a peace deal in six months, a
Syrian-American businessman at the heart of secret unofficial
peace talks said on Thursday after appearing before a top
parliamentary panel.


"Peace can be reached in six months if both parties are willing,"
Ibrahim (Abe) Suleiman said. "The negotiations are finished.
There are only minor things that could be fixed in two or three
meetings. Peace is possible now."


Suleiman spoke to reporters after appearing before parliament's
powerful foreign affairs and defence committee with Alon Liel, a
former Israeli foreign ministry director general who headed the
Israeli side in the unofficial talks.


Suleiman and Liel headed two years of the secret talks during
which understandings were reached for a peace treaty between
Syria and Israel.


"Our work is done, now it's up to officials in Israel and Syria
to sit down and iron out their differences," the US businessman
said. "We gave them a peace map."


Syria's "President Bashar al-Assad wants peace with Israel. He
wants to make peace and be known as the man of peace.


"I believe him, but Bashar al-Assad alone cannot make peace, he
needs a partner in Israel. I challenge the Israeli government to
answer President Bashar's call for peace to sit down together and
work things out."


Reports of the secret talks first appeared in the Israeli press
in January.


At the time, the Israeli and Syrian governments denied any
knowledge of the contacts, which were held in Europe between
September 2004 and July 2006 in the presence of a European
mediator.


Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert has repeatedly rejected peace
overtures by the Syrian president in recent months, saying
Damascus must first stop supporting militant groups in Lebanon
and the Gaza Strip.


Peace talks between Israel and Syria collapsed in 2000, in part
because of disputes over the return of the Golan Heights, which
Israel captured from Syria in the 1967 Six Day War and
unilaterally annexed in 1981.

