

Chinese share prices closed at a fresh record high Thursday,
adding 1.02 percent on strong follow-through buying with
machinery and power companies in demand, dealers said.


They said investor sentiment was bolstered by the strengthening
currency, the yuan, and continued expectations for strong
corporate earnings as markets registered their ninth straight day
of gains.


But with China's two bourses at new highs analysts warned the
run-up could trigger a correction similar to the one that rocked
markets in late February when Chinese shares tumbled 9.0 percent
in one day.


The Shanghai Composite Index, which covers A and B-shares, closed
up 35.81 points at 3,531.03 on turnover of 148.37 billion yuan
(19.19 billion US dollars).


The Shanghai A-share Index was up 37.86 points or 1.03 percent at
3,712.22 on turnover of 147.75 billion yuan and the Shenzhen
A-share Index was up 21.86 points or 2.25 percent at a record
993.26, on turnover of 83.44 billion yuan.


"The Shanghai Composite index passed 3,500-point resistance
easily on the back of strong follow-through interest, with
gainers significantly outnumbering decliners," said Jiang Fan, an
analyst at Soochow Securities.


Zhang Yi, an analyst at Yibang Investment, was sceptical that the
market could continue its precipitous rise.


"I believe there will be some corrections around current index
levels because the market has risen a little too quickly and
sharply over past weeks and a consolidation is definitely
necessary."


Machinery stocks were boosted by a surge in Sany Heavy Industry
after it forecast a rise of more than 500 percent year-on-year
first quarter profit. Its shares were up 3.31 yuan or 6.05
percent at 58.02.


Changsha Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science Technology Development
rose by its 10 percent daily limit to 24.89 yuan. Shantui
Construction Machinery was up 0.61 yuan or 5.12 percent at 12.52.


Power generators were also in demand on rotational interest with
SP Power Development up 1.20 yuan or 9.96 percent at 13.25, while
China Yangtze Power was up 0.59 yuan or 4.60 percent at 13.43.


Chongqing Changan Automobile was up 0.08 yuan or 0.51 percent at
15.75 on news of strong 2006 net profit rose 173.18 percent to
646.75 million yuan under Chinese accounting standards.


The gains were due to improved sales at Changan Ford Mazda
Automobile, its 50 percent-owned joint venture with Ford Motor.


Steelmakers were under pressure from profit-taking, with Jinan
Iron Steel down 0.62 yuan or 3.81 percent at 15.67 and Baoshan
Iron Steel was down 0.07 yuan or 0.63 percent at 11.08.


The Shanghai B-share Index was up 0.22 points or to 188.23 on
turnover of 617.34 million US dollars and the Shenzhen B-share
Index was up 3.27 points or at 546.53 on turnover of 721.64
million Hong Kong dollars (93.36 million US dollars).

