

Eritrea on Thursday accused the United States of blocking the
implementation of a ruling on its border dispute with arch-foe
Ethiopia.


Yemane Gebremeskel, director of Eritrean President Issaias
Afeworki's office, said Washington had stopped the United Nations
Security Council from enforcing the 2002 border ruling by an
independent panel.


"It boils down to the policy of the US government, for reasons
that are not easy for us to understand," Yemane told reporters on
Thursday, on the eve of the fifth anniversary since the end of a
bitter border conflict with Ethiopia.


"The US administration has preferred not to allow the decision to
be implemented in accordance with the provisions of the
agreement."


Washington dismisses such accusations, and in a State Department
report last month it blamed Asmara for using the border dispute
to justify restrictions on civil liberties despite international
efforts to resolve the situation.


The panel's decision awarded the flashpoint border town of Badme
to Eritrea, but Ethiopia says the ruling must be altered since it
will split families and villages between the two countries.


The result has been that the 1,000-kilometer (620-mile) border
remains undemarcated and a source of constant tension in the
region.


Yemane warned that failure to enforce the decision by the Eritrea
Ethiopia Boundary Commission -- due to disband in November --
could result in as serious a crisis as that in the war-torn
nation of Somalia.


"If conflict erupts it is going to be equally grave and involve
the loss of life," Yemane warned.

