

Japanese share prices retreated Thursday on the heels of Wall
Street as investors fretted about interest rates and slowing
economic growth in the United States, dealers said.


They said that US stocks had fallen overnight after minutes from
the Federal Reserve's recent meeting indicated that the central
bank was not ruling out an interest rate hike to curb inflation.


The losses came despite the continued weakness of the yen, which
hit a record low against the euro in a boost to Japanese
exporters.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
closed down 129.65 points or 0.73 percent to 17,540.42.


The broader TOPIX index of all first-section issues dropped 12.83
points or 0.74 percent to 1,726.18.


Decliners outpaced gainers 1,091 to 481, with 156 issues flat.


Volume advanced to 1.88 billion shares from 1.81 billion on
Wednesday.


Dealers took their cue from Wall Street where investors reacted
nervously to minutes from the Federal Reserve's March meeting
that showed policymakers were concerned about "uncomfortably
high" inflation.


The remarks "put to rest earlier market speculations of a likely
rate cut sometime soon," said Mitsushige Akino, chief fund
manager at Ichiyoshi Management.


The International Monetary Fund's decision to cut its forecast
for US economic growth this year to 2.2 percent, the weakest in
five years, also weighed on sentiment, dealers said.


Akino said investors were also reluctant to buy up shares because
of the upcoming corporate earnings reporting season in Japan and
the US.


Friday's special quotation fixing for the April stock index
option also added to the market's cautious tone, dealers said.


Among electronics shares, Hitachi slid 15 yen or 1.6 percent to
921, Toshiba Corp slipped five yen or 0.6 percent to 871 and NEC
Corp shed 12 or 1.8 percent to 650.


Banks lost ground. Shinsei Bank fell 20 yen or 3.5 percent to
547, Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group lost 30,000 or 2.2 percent to
1.35 million yen, and Resona Holdings was down 6,000 yen or 1.9
percent to 315,000.


But Nippon Steel rose eight yen or 0.99 percent to 816 after a
newspaper reported that it, Arcelor Mittal and Baosteel Group
Corp have agreed to double production of automotive steel sheets
at their joint venture in China.


On the foreign exchange market, the dollar was steady at 119.36
yen in Tokyo afternoon trade from 119.34 late Wednesday in New
York.


The euro gained to 1.3464 dollars after 1.3428 and to 160.70 yen
from 160.27, after setting a new all-time high of about 160.85.

