

Ugandan police on Thursday fired live rounds and tear gas in the
air and to disperse thousands of demonstrators protesting a
government decision to hive off swathes of protected forest for
sugar plantation by an Indian company, an AFP correspondent said.


The protest in downtown Kampala turned rowdy after demonstrators
attacked an Indian motorist who was driving past, forcing him to
speed off into the crowd and injuring four people.


The irate protesters then turned onto a motorbike rider, also an
Indian, after they failed to catch up with the speeding motorist
and beat him up.


The protesters are against the plan to clear around 7,000 of the
30,000 hectares in Mabira Forest Reserve east of Kampala and hand
it to the Indian-owned Mehta Group for sugar cane farming.


Dozens of police fired bullets and tear gas to disperse the crowd
that had also descended on a another Indian couple as they drove
past.


"All Indians should go back to Bombay. Mr President let Mabira
stay. (Yoweri) Museveni is trying to rob us. We are tired of
Indians," read some of the placards brandished by the mob.


The government is set to seek parliament's approval to implement
the decision.


Furious conservationists have warned that further encroachment of
the forest would threaten up to 312 species of trees, 287 of
birds and 199 of butterfly.


In December, Norwegian environmentalist Olav Bjella quit as NFA
chief after defying Museveni's order to approve the clearance of
a rainforest on Lake Victoria's Ssesse Islands for a palm
plantation, saying it was against his conscience and the laws of
Uganda.

