

India's largest private carrier Jet Airways said it had clinched
a deal Thursday to take over domestic rival Air Sahara after an
earlier proposed 500-million- dollar agreement collapsed.


The takeover valued at 14.5 billion rupees (337.8 million
dollars) will be India's largest private airline merger.


"This deal is definitely going to be good for the shareholders,"
Jet Airways founder and chairman Naresh Goyal told reporters in
Mumbai, India's financial centre.


The merger collapsed nine months ago in a dispute over the cost
of Sahara after Jet judged the initial 500 million dollar price
too high.


Afterwards both sides went to court seeking money lodged in an
account intended for the merger.


The takeover came amid arbitration hearings in Mumbai over the
return of money to the two companies.


"Jet has decided to take over all the shares of Air Sahara and
has resolved all disputes," Harish Salve, legal advisor to Jet
Airways said.


Jet shares rose 21.6 rupees or 3.55 percent to 630.5 rupees after
the deal was announced.


As of last December, Jet held a 32.8 percent share of India's
booming aviation market while Air Sahara had an 8.7 percent
share, according to official figures from the Directorate General
of Civil Aviation.


India's Economic Times reported on Thursday that Jet may launch
Air Sahara as a separate low cost carrier under a new name.


At least half a dozen carriers, including budget airlines, have
taken flight in the past three years in India's liberalised
skies, which were previously dominated by two state-run
companies.


The sector is expected to see a wave of consolidation as analysts
say there are too many airlines.


India's airlines lost a total of 400 million dollars in the nine
months ended December 2006 as high fuel and aircraft purchase
costs hit carriers, airline experts told an aviation conference
earlier this year.

