

China should loosen its grip on the media beyond the Olympic
Games and not just for foreign reporters, the European Union's
media commissioner said here Thursday.


"We appreciate that there is some kind of opening with the
Olympic Games," European Commissioner for Information Society and
Media Viviane Reding told reporters on the second day of her
visit to Beijing.


"I hope that this opening will continue also after the Olympic
Games."


Reding said China's communist rulers should loosen the shackles
on the domestic press both in the traditional as well as new
forms of media.


"My opinion is very simple. I am against any government
intervention in the media, whatever the media are, if it is a
print or it is a new media," she said.


"It is not the business of the government whatsoever to intervene
in whatever way on the Internet. Leave the Internet free without
government intervention."


Reding brought the issue up in her discussions with ministers in
charge of information and scientific research, saying a free
society is a prerequisite for the development of a successful
economy.


"I don't believe that you can separate one from the other," she
said.


On January 1 China lifted some restrictions for foreign
reporters, giving them more freedom to work and travel in a bid
to improve its image before the 2008 Beijing Olympics.


But domestic media, including the Internet, continue to be
tightly controlled by the ruling Communist Party which fears
instability and challenges to its power.


The country is ranked by the Paris-based Reporters Without
Borders as the 163rd out of 167 countries on its global press
freedom index.

