

The BBC's director general appealed on Thursday for the release
of journalist Alan Johnston who was abducted in the Gaza Strip
exactly one month ago -- the longest a Westerner has been held in
the unruly territory.


"I appeal to all those who may have influence with the kidnappers
to use their best endeavours to secure Alan's release safely and
speedily," Mark Thompson told a press conference in the West Bank
city of Ramallah.


"I would appeal to the people holding Alan Johnston to release
him immediately," he said.


Thompson said the British broadcaster was "increasingly concerned
about the physical and mental toll his incarceration are taking
on him."


He said he had met Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas who "told
me that he had credible evidence that Alan was safe and well. He
assured me that the Palestinian authorities are fully engaged
with Alan's case and are working to resolve it as soon as
possible."


Johnston, 44, was forced from his car at gunpoint as he drove
home from work on March 12 in Gaza City.


Thompson said the BBC has not had any contact with those holding
Johnston, who has reported from Gaza for three years and was one
of the few Western journalists to be permanently based in the
lawless territory.


"Alan has demonstrated his commitment to the accurate reporting
of Gaza and its people... it is absolutely in the interests of
people of Gaza and Palaestine as a whole that he should be
released immediately and without harm."

