

Twin bombings in Algiers which killed at least 24 people was akin
to the attack on New York's twin towers, the country's press
declared on Thursday, a day after the devastating blasts in the
capital.


"New York had September 11, Madrid had March 11 and it is now
Algiers' turn to discover on April 11 the murderous madness of
the suicide attacks which hit the symbol of the Algerian state,
the (prime minister's office)," said Le Jeune, an independent
Algerian newspaper.


The two suicide car bombs hit the seat of government in the
centre of Algiers and an eastern suburb. At least 160 were
injured in the blasts.


The attacks were claimed by Al-Qaeda's north African cell, formed
out of an Algerian islamist militant group.


"Never before, even during the dramatic years of terrorism, was a
national institution subject to such a devastating attack," Ahmed
Fattani, the director general of l'Expression, wrote in an
editorial.


"The attack on the (prime minister's headquarters) has undermined
public confidence and Al-Qaeda is swaggering in the media," he
added.


Al Watan splashed a photograph of the devastated government
offices on its front page, under the head line "suicide attack on
Algiers", with another declaring: "Al-Qaeda carries out the most
spectacular attack since the beginning of terrorist violence in
our country."


In the 1990s Algeria was plunged into a bloody confrontation
between the military and Islamist militants after a 1992 general
election won by an Islamist party was annulled.


The bloody civil war, in which more than 150,000 people died, was
largely ended by an amnesty in 1999 which led to many rebels
laying down their arms. Violence has largely abated, although a
state of emergency remains in place.

