

Four Iranian bandits and one Pakistani border security official
were killed Thursday in a raid on a criminal hideout along the
border between the two Islamic republics, officials said.


Another three outlaws were arrested in the operation by Pakistani
police commandos and paramilitary troops at Baksar Talmub
village, 550 kilometres (340 miles) west of Quetta, they said.


"The criminals were involved in murder, robbery, car-snatching
and attacking forces in Iran and Pakistan," Azhar Rashid, police
spokesman for Pakistan's southwestern province of Baluchistan,
told AFP.


"Four criminals were killed in the raid while the Frontier Corps
lost one soldier. Three dacoits (criminals) were arrested after
getting injured," Rashid added.


Security forces also seized weapons and uniforms that appeared to
be from the Iranian border security force, he said.


Baluchistan police chief Tariq Khosa said the bandits were
members of an Iranian criminal gang and were suspected of
murdering Iranian border guards and attacking their Pakistani
counterparts in the past.


Speaking at the funeral of the border guard killed in the raid,
Khosa said it was unclear whether the dead criminals were linked
to the Sunni militant group Jundullah (Soldiers of God), which is
active in the area.


Pakistan earlier this month denied a US media report that it was
secretly aiding Jundullah with attacks across the border in Iran.


Jundullah recently took credit for a car bomb in the Iranian city
of Zahedan in which 13 Revolutionary Guards died and the
subsequent abduction of four Iranian police, three of whom were
later recovered in Pakistan.

