

A Turkish court on Thursday charged a man who threatened to blow
up an airliner on a domestic flight with hijacking and remanded
him in custody pending trial, the Anatolia news agency reported.


The court in Ankara charged Mehmet Goksingol with hijacking a
plane, restricting personal freedom and violating work safety,
the agency said.


He was sent to a maximum security prison in Ankara pending trial.


Earlier Thursday, a prosecutor in charge of terrorism-related
cases ruled out any links between Goksingol and terrorist
organisations, paving the way for the case to be handeled as a
criminal incident.


Goksingol on Tuesday threatened to blow up an airplane -- en
route from the southeastern city of Diyarbakir to Istanbul --
with what he claimed to be a bomb attached to his belt and forced
it to land in Ankara, where he surrendered to the security forces
about half an hour later.


He turned out to be unarmed and police found no explosives on the
plane, operated by the private Pegasus Airlines, which had 174
passengers and six crew. No one was injured in the incident.


His motives remain unclear, but witnesses aboard the Boeing
737-800 said Goksinoglu, a 39-year-old Kurd from Diyarbakir,
appeared mentally unstable.


Media reports said the man had a criminal record for drug-related
crimes and illegal possession of weapons and was acquitted of
charges of aiding separatist Kurdish rebels in 1994.


Some reports suggested he was on drugs when he diverted the
plane.


The incident was the second hijacking attempt by an unarmed Turk
claiming to have a bomb in recent months.


In October, an army deserter who was facing arrest on arrival in
Turkey forced a Turkish Airlines plane, en route from Tirana to
Istanbul, to land at an Italian airport.

