

At least 35 Taliban militants were killed in a battle with Afghan
and US-led troops in restive southern Afghanistan, a provincial
governor's spokesman said Thursday.


The fighting erupted Wednesday after dozens of Taliban fighters
attacked Afghan security forces in the southern province of
Zabul, spokesman Gulab Shah Alikhil told AFP.


The rebels were killed after US-led coalition forces responded
with ground troops and warplanes after a call from their Afghan
counterparts who came under attack in the province's Shahjoy
district, Alikhil said.


"Initially our troops came under attack. They called for support
from the coalition troops who responded with ground troops and
air support. Thirty-five Taliban were killed in the subsequent
fighting," he said.


The US-led coalition headquarters said it had no immediate
information. The NATO-led International Security Assistance Force
said it was not involved in the clashes.


Zabul is one of the most violent regions in southern Afghanistan.
Four Afghan soldiers were killed and nearly two dozen were
injured in Zabul after being ambushed by Taliban insurgents on
Monday.


Taliban rebels seized control of Khak Afghan district in Zabul
last week, the latest of several rebel attempts to exert control
in parts of southern and western Afghanistan.


Around 1,000 people, the majority of them militants, have been
killed in Taliban-related violence this year, according to an AFP
toll based on official reports.


The fundamentalist Taliban sheltered Al-Qaeda chief Osama bin
Laden and was ousted by US-led forces in 2001 after the September
11 attacks on the United States, but has since regrouped to lead
a bloody insurgency.

