

The International Energy Agency urged the OPEC oil producers'
group to increase production on Thursday, saying higher output
was needed to build up world stocks.


The 12-member Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries
decided to cut its output twice at the end of last year to help
stem prices that were falling at the time.


"OPEC supply curbs since last autumn have coincided with two
quarters of heavy OECD stock draws and output remains below the
level needed to generate the usual Spring crude stock build," the
energy watchdog warned in its monthly report on the oil market.


Falling stock levels was one of the factors that drove oil prices
higher over the last month to an average of 68 dollars per barrel
in early April, the IEA said.


Strong demand for gasoline in the United States, refinery
maintenance, disruption to oil production in Iraq and Nigeria,
and geopolitical tension over Iran had also pushed up prices.


"Total OECD inventories fell by 80.5 million barrels in February
on declining product stock in all regions and a crude draw in the
Pacific," the IEA said.


Forward cover, which means the number of days of consumption
covered by oil stocks, was "declining counter-seasonally,"  the
IEA said.


"Preliminary March data for the US, Japan and Europe indicate an
unusual first quarter stock draw of around 1.0 million barrels
per day," the IEA said.


World oil output fell by 265,000 barrels per day in March to 85.3
million bpd.


The watchdog, which represents the interests of the rich-country
members of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and
Development, also tweaked its estimates of world oil demand for
last year and 2007.


Demand last year was estimated at 84.3 million bpd, a cut of
190,000 bpd from a previous IEA estimate, with demand this year
forecast at 85.8 million bpd, a reduction of 250,000 bpd from a
previous estimate.


In percentage terms, demand this year is set to increase by 1.8
percent from 2006 levels.

