

Efforts to field a joint Korean team at next year's Olympics have
collapsed, officials from both sides said on Thursday, with North
Korea blaming the South for a "lack of will."


"Talks, which were about to be wrapped up thanks to our
concessions and good faith, have failed to bear fruit after all,"
the North's Olympic Committee said in a statement.


"South Korea's Olympic committee ... is entirely responsible for
failure to solve the issue of fielding a unified team to the 2008
Beijing Olympics," it said.


The committee claimed South Korea's attitude had hampered
progress in talks.


Officials here conceded it was now "impossible" to field a joint
team at the Beijing Games.


"It is now impossible for the two sides to form a joint team as
our side will not accept their demands," a South Korean Olympic
official told AFP on condition of anonymity.


The two sides agreed in principle to form a joint Olympic team in
early 2004. However, they have failed to agree on details despite
holding four meetings on the subject.


A major sticking point was the team's composition. Seoul wanted
selection based on athletic merit, while Pyongyang sought equal
numbers from each country.


The two Koreas, which have remained technically at war since the
1950-53 conflict, seek rapprochement through sports exchanges.


Despite tensions after North Korea's nuclear test in October,
they marched together at the opening ceremony of the Asian Games
in Qatar in December.


South and North Korea have fielded a unified team for a world
soccer championship and world table tennis championship, both in
the early 1990s, but never for a major event such as the Olympics
or Asian Games.

