

The combined eurozone economy grew 2.7 percent last year, the
EU's Eurostat data agency said Thursday, revising upwards a
previous estimate of 2.6 percent.


The rate, the fastest pace since the beginning of the decade,
marked a strong rebound from 2005 when the 12-nation eurozone
economy -- Slovenia became the thirteenth member in January --
expanded 1.4 percent.


Meanwhile, the combined European Union economy expanded 2.9
percent last year after bouncing back from growth of only 1.7
percent in 2005, Eurostat said, sticking with its previous
estimate from last month.


Both the eurozone and the broader EU enjoyed a spurt of growth in
the final three months of last year thanks in large part to a
strong performance in Germany, Europe's biggest economy, and
Italy.


The eurozone economy grew 0.9 percent in the final quarter from
the previous month and 3.3 percent over 12 months while the EU
economy as a whole also expanded 0.9 percent and 3.5 percent over
12 months.


Putting several lean years behind it, the German economy grew 0.9
percent in the final quarter and 3.7 percent over 12 months while
Italian growth reached 1.1 percent and 2.8 percent.


The French economy, the second biggest in the eurozone, finished
the year on a solid footing, growing 0.7 percent in the final
quarter and 2.5 percent over 12 months, Eurostat said, revising
upwards from a previous estimate.


Looking ahead, the European Commission forecast on Thursday that
the eurozone would keep up a quick pace of growth while broadly
sticking to previous estimates.


The EU's executive arm forecast growth of 0.4-0.8 percent for the
first three months of this year, 0.4-0.9 percent for the second
quarter and 0.3-0.9 percent for the third quarter.

