

Spain's top anti-terrorist judge has warned that the country, in
particular its north African enclaves, is threatened by Islamist
attacks following suicide bombings in Morocco and Algeria, it was
reported on Thursday.


Judge Baltasar Garzon, one of six investigating judges for
Spain's National Court, told La Vanguardia daily that "there's a
big risk that Spain could be the subject of a new Islamist
attack."


Baltasar, who has successfully prosecuted Al-Qaeda operatives,
added that Spain's tiny north African enclaves of Ceuta and
Melilla, on the border with Morocco, are particularly at risk.


His remarks came after two suicide bomb attacks in Algiers on
Wednesday killed at least 24 people. A day earlier three suspect
members of an Islamist cell blew themselves up as they were
pursued by police in Morocco.


Wednesday's attacks in Algiers were claimed by Al-Qaeda's branch
in north Africa. A statement posted on a website which often
carries Al-Qaeda messages claiming responsibility for the
bombings included a warning against Spain.


"We will not be in peace until we have liberated all the land of
Islam from crusaders, apostates and agents, and we have retaken
our Andalusia (in southern Spain) and our violated Al-Quds
(Jerusalem)," the "Al-Qaeda Movement in Islamic Countries of the
Maghreb" warned.


The Spanish daily ABC carried a report on Thursday that security
services from either Britain or the United States had warned
several European countries, including Spain, of an impending Al-
Qaeda attack in north Africa.


It added that Spain's own security services have been ordered to
redouble their efforts to monitor networks and individuals linked
to Islamist groups and in particular to increase surveillance in
Ceuta and Melilla.


Spain is already on heightened alert because of the ongoing trial
of those suspected of having played a role in the 2004 Madrid
bombings which killed more than 200 people.


Ceuta and Melilla, perched on the coast of north Africa and
claimed by Morocco, have recently been used launching pads for
clandestine immigration from Africa to Spain and the rest of
continental Europe.

