

The bodies of four British soldiers killed last week in southern
Iraq were flown home Thursday, receiving military honours in a
ceremony at an RAF base in southern England.


The four -- including two women -- died along with a civilian
translator in a roadside bomb near the city of Basra last
Thursday, in the bloodiest day for months for British troops in
the country.


Colleagues acted as pallbearers as the their coffins -- shrouded
in the red white and blue of the Union Jack -- were removed from
a hulking grey Royal Air Force transport plane at RAF Lyneham in
Wiltshire in southwest England.


They were named as Second Lieutenant Joanna Dyer, Corporal Kris
O'Neill, Private Eleanor Dlugosz and Kingsman Adam James Smith.
Dyer was a friend of Prince William, who attended Sandhurst
military training college with her.


All four were inside a Warrior armoured vehicle returning from
patrol near Basra when insurgents struck.


Last Thursday's killings brought to 140 the number of British
soldiers killed in Iraq since the US-led invasion in 2003.


Their deaths came on the same day as 15 British sailors and
marines detained in Iran for 13 days were freed.


Their release has been marred by controversy over a decision to
let the sailors sell their stories to the media, leading to
pressure on Defence Secretary Des Browne, who reversed the
decision but only after two of the 15 had sold their tales.


On Thursday the mass-market Daily Mail printed a picture of the
four Britons' coffins being carried by the their colleagues in
Iraq under the headline: "THEY won't be selling their story,
minister."

