

Hong Kong share prices closed 0.34 percent lower Thursday,
snapping a five-day winning streak as minutes of last month's US
Federal Reserve meeting renewed worries over interest rates,
dealers said.


They said the market's fall was cushioned by another record high
on China's A-share markets, which sparked interest in select
mainland firms listed here.


Fed meeting minutes released overnight indicated that
policymakers remain concerned over inflation, leaving the door
open for interest rate rises.


The benchmark Hang Seng Index closed down 69.22 points at
20,380.21. Turnover was 59.99 billion Hong Kong dollars (7.7
billion US).


"The market was weighed down by disappointment that any rate
reduction is not on the cards anytime soon," said Brook McConnel,
president of South Ocean Management.


Fed meeting minutes released overnight indicated that US
policymakers remain concerned over inflation.


"The market has had a good run in the past few weeks and I
believe scores of investors decided to lock in some profit from
recent gains," McConnel said.


"The degree of profit-taking though was modest mainly because
many investors are getting more and more keen on China-related
stocks, specially with the mainland's A-shares touching new highs
on strong liquidity flows," he said.


Alex Wong, an asset manager at Ample Capital, said that while
falls on Wall Street overnight and fresh worries over interest
rates weighed on sentiment, the selling pressure was cushioned by
sustained interest in China stocks.


"The mood today was generally cautious, but not bearish. New
highs in China's A-share market is helping in a big way to
sustain interest in select H-shares," he said.


Among China financials, Bank of China was up 0.04 at 3.98, China
Merchants Bank rose 0.38 to 17.98 and China Life was up 0.60 at
24.75.


Ping An Insurance surged 2.45 at 42.75 after announcing that its
2006 net profit rose to 7.84 billion yuan (1 billion US) from
4.23 billion a year earlier, driven by premiums income growth.


Among local banks, HSBC rose 0.50 at 139.80, Hang Seng Bank was
down 0.90 at 112.40, Bank of East Asia dropped 0.15 at 48.40 and
BOC Hong Kong was up 0.06 at 19.38.


Properties were lower, with Sun Hung Kai Properties down 0.30 at
93.15, Cheung Kong fell 1.20 at 101.90 and Sino Land was down
0.075 at 17.64.

