

The euro hit a record high against the yen and a two-year best
versus the dollar on Thursday, as traders bet that the European
Central Bank would signal more interest rate rises ahead, dealers
said.


The euro reached 160.85 yen in early European trade, a record for
the European single currency against its Japanese counterpart.


Against the US currency, the euro struck 1.3477 dollars -- the
highest point since March 2005.


Later Thursday, the euro stood at 1.3451 dollars, from 1.3428
dollars in New York late on Wednesday.


The dollar traded at 119.39 yen, compared with 119.34 on
Wednesday.


The ECB's rate-setting governing council was expected to hold
eurozone borrowing costs steady at 3.75 percent on Thursday after
raising them by a quarter of a percentage point in March.


The market was therefore expected to focus on comments made by
ECB president Jean-Claude Trichet for clues as to the timing of a
future hike.


Key to this will be whether he uses the codeword 'vigilant' when
referring to rising inflationary pressures.


"If he does use his pet phrase to signal a hike the euro should
continue to grind higher against the dollar and the yen," IFR
Markets analyst John Noonan said.


Much of the euro's strength has stemmed from the continued
popularity of yen carry trades -- where investors borrow in low-
yielding currencies such as the yen in order to invest in higher-
yielding assets elsewhere.


Dealers doubt that the Group of Seven finance ministers set to
gather Friday in Washington will speak out about the yen's
weakness, which European officials say is hurting eurozone
exports.


On the eve of the G7 meet, the market was also mulling minutes
from the Federal Reserve's March meeting that showed policymakers
were concerned about "uncomfortably high" US inflation,
suggesting they are unlikely to cut interest rates soon, dealers
said.


The IMF on Wednesday said that the United States was experiencing
a "growth pause" but was unlikely to slump into a recession.


Elsewhere, China's central bank announced Thursday that the
country's foreign exchange reserves, already the world's largest,
surpassed 1.2 trillion dollars at the end of March.


The euro was changing hands at 1.3451 dollars, against 1.3428
dollars late on Wednesday, 160.63 yen (160.27), 0.6811 pounds
(0.6796) and 1.6415 Swiss francs (1.6395).


The dollar stood at 119.39 yen (119.34) and 1.2205 Swiss francs
(1.2207).


The pound was being traded at 1.9749 dollars (1.9752).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold advanced to
678.95 dollars per ounce, from 678.20 dollars late on Wednesday.

