

Russia is seeking joint inspections with the EU of Polish farm
products, in a bid to end a long-running embargo, but Brussels
does not believe these are necessary, a European Commission
spokesman said Thursday.


"We are now considering and preparing a reply," to the latest
Russian letter received in the dispute which is hampering moves
towards a new EU-Russia partnership agreement, EU Consumer
Protection spokesman Philip Tod told reporters in Brussels.


"I would say that the letter is in many ways quite positive about
the progress that has been made by the Polish authorities," but
also "raises a number of issues on which they seek
clarification".


"They have recommended joint inspections," he added.


The EU's executive arm believes that while there were problems in
Poland's veterinary and food hygiene sectors in the past "we
consider that Poland is complying with EU legislation and has
made sufficient progress to justify the lifting of the embargo,"
he added.


Russia imposed the embargo on Polish meat and other food products
in December 2005, accusing Polish authorities of fraud in the
implementation of food safety standards.


But Poland argues that Moscow is playing politics because of
differences with the conservative government in Warsaw.


The problem has taken on wider proportions since Warsaw has
subsequently vetoed opening talks between the European Union and
Russia on a new partnership agreement because of the Russian ban.


Tod said it was likely that EU Health Commissioner Markos
Kyprianou would meet Russia's Agriculture Minister Alexei
Gordeyev next week, although time and place have not been
confirmed.

