

China said Thursday it hoped North Korea would open up its
economy, following the Stalinist state's appointment of a new
prime minister that has raised the possibility of economic
reforms.


"As a neighbour of the DPRK (North Korea), we hope that they can
maintain domestic economic and social development," foreign
ministry spokesman Qin Gang said, without commenting directly on
the political reshuffle.


"We also hope to see a greater opening up of the DPRK's economy
and... we hope we can play a positive role on boosting the
economic development and the improvement of the people's
livelihood there."


The communist state's parliament on Wednesday sacked premier Pak
Pong-Ju and replaced him with transport minister Kim Yong-Il, the
official Korean Central News Agency (KCNA) said.


Kim Yong-Il, 62, is a career administrator in land and maritime
transport.


"The most outstanding thing is that Pak was replaced by a younger
technocrat. This is something unexpected," Kim Young-Yoon, an
analyst at Seoul's Korea Institute for National Unification, told
AFP.


"This is a strong signal that North Korea will put more emphasis
on improving the living standards of its population and build up
infrastructure as that was the premier's lifetime job."


The moves come after the Stalinist regime agreed to shut down its
nuclear programmes in exchange for badly needed aid and energy in
a six party deal involving China, South Korea, the United States,
Japan and Russia.


In a report to its parliament on Wednesday, the North Korean
government stressed utmost efforts to improve living standards
for the country's 23 million people.


"The central task for the economic construction sector for this
year is to improve the people's livelihood and push forward
strongly with the modernisation of the people's economy," it
said.

