

Seven villagers in southern China were convicted of extortion
after they protested a land grab by local authorities and
demanded compensation, a rights group said Thursday.


The seven were sentenced to between two and four years in prison
by a court in Nanhai county, Guangdong province on Tuesday, the
China Rights Defenders said in a statement.


They had been convicted in December last year of extortion
stemming from the payment of compensation in two property
disputes a year earlier, it said.


The compensation had been arbitrated by local police, the group
said, but this was ignored by the court.


Court officials in Nanhai were unavailable for comment Thursday.


The seven convicted were part of a group of villagers in Nanhai's
Sanshan district that are opposing several land development
projects, the group said.


The case came to light after the state indicated a willingness to
better protect ordinary people in land grabs, which are often the
result of cozy deals between developers and government officials.


Guangdong is the factory floor of China's booming export-oriented
economy, as well as the home of some of the nation's most
strident land disputes.


Police opened fire on protesters in December 2005 in Guangdong's
Dongzhou village, killing at least three as peaceful
demonstrations turned violent.


"Throwing these villagers in prison for rejecting officials
selling their land for profit without giving them adequate
compensation also says how little the government is doing for the
farmers' basic right to make a living," the rights group said.


"Without adequate compensations, these farmers have almost
nothing to go on in starting a business or finding employment."


China's parliament passed the nation's first property rights law
earlier this year, in what many hoped would end widespread land
confiscations by local officials.

