

Former British hostage Terry Waite appealed Thursday to the
Palestinian people to help secure the release of BBC journalist
Alan Johnston, saying they would suffer more the longer he
remains missing.


Waite, who spent four years as a hostage in Lebanon two decades
ago, said Palestinian bridges with the outside world risked
crumbling with the continued detention of Johnston, held in the
Gaza Strip for exactly one month.


"Politically it's suicidal for the Palestinians as all the
Palestinian leaders from the different factions have been
saying," Waite said on Sky News television.


He said it seems that the armed men abducted Johnston for
criminal rather than political reasons but added there was still
much the Palestinian people could do to get him released.


"Kidnapping gangs can only keep captives if they have support of
the local community," Waite said. "I would like to make an appeal
to every Palestinian: Do what you can now to bring this
(kidnapping) to an end.


"By keeping Alan, you're actually not just shooting yourself in
the foot but in the head," he said.


"If you've got any, any information, give it to the authorities
and get that man out, because the longer this goes on, the more
distress this is going to cause the Palestinian people who
actually do need a break," Waite said.


Waite, who has negotiated for the release of hostages in the past
on behalf of the Church of England, warned that Johnston's
kidnapping could undermine foreign aid projects to the
Palestinian territories.


There has been no word on the fate of Johnston, 44, since he was
forced from his car at gunpoint as he drove home from work in
Gaza City on March 12 and the BBC said a "day of action" was
being held on Thursday to highlight his plight.


Waite spent four years partly in solitary confinement after being
captured in Beirut in 1987 by the Islamic Jihad group, a pro-
Iranian organisation.

