

French air traffic controllers went on strike Thursday, causing
major disruptions at Paris's Orly airport, while flights leaving
from the main Charles de Gaulle airport were also affected.


Hundreds of flights from both the French capital's international
airports were expected to be cancelled throughout the day, said
Marc Hamy, director of air navigation services at the civil
aviation authority.


"We expect 35 to 50 percent of flights to be cancelled from Orly
today and hope to maintain 400 of the 700 daily flights that are
scheduled," Hamy told AFP.


He said up to 500 out of the 1,500 flights scheduled to fly out
of Charles de Gaulle would be grounded and many would be delayed
in the afternoon.


Workers belonging to two unions are protesting at plans to merge
air traffic control operations for the Paris region at one site
separate from the airports in Athis-Mons in 2015.


While the unions approved the plan, the strike on Thursday was
called to protest management plans to send 30 air traffic
controllers from Orly to Charles de Gaulle, on the other side of
the city, in 2011.


At Orly, which provides flights to cities within France and to
nearby European destinations, four of the 12 air traffic
controllers usually on duty were on the job to ensure minimal
services.


At Charles de Gaulle airport, all but two of the 30 air traffic
controllers were at their posts early Thursday, said Hamy.


Passengers could be seen sleeping on benches in Orly and waiting
in queues as airport officials handed out free coffee to maintain
calm in the terminal.


A two-week school holiday had led to an upsurge in travel.

