

A Japanese parliamentary panel Thursday passed a bill taking the
first step towards revising the country's pacifist constitution,
despite strong resistance from opposition parties.


Opposition lawmakers briefly scuffled with ruling party members
during the session, storming up to the speaker's chair to grab
the microphone.


Conservative Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has made revising the
pacifist constitution, created in 1947 under the US occupation,
as the top item on his political agenda.


In a first step, his government has proposed a bill that would
establish a national referendum on how to revise the
constitution.


Abe wants the referendum bill to become law during the current
parliament session that is scheduled to last until June 23.


On Thursday, the lower house committee approved the bill, which
will go Friday to the full chamber, where Abe's coalition enjoys
a wide majority.


The bill would then head to an upper house panel and plenary
session.


The pacifist constitution bars Japan from using or even
threatening to use force as a way to settle international
disputes, although the country skirts the rule by calling its
troops "Self-Defence Forces."


Domestic polls show overwhelming public support for a
constitutional revision. The main opposition Democratic Party of
Japan also favours the move, but views are mixed on how far to
deviate from Japan's official pacifism.


The constitutional revision also risks upsetting neighbouring
Asian countries, which remain resentful over Japan's past
aggression.


However, Chinese Premier Hu Jintao sounded a conciliatory note on
an ongoing visit here, saying he accepted that Japanese leaders
regret the past.

