

Norway, the only Western country to normalise ties with the new
Palestinian government, is ready to resume direct aid to the
Palestinian Authority, Foreign Minister Jonas Gahr Stoere said on
Thursday.


The aid would resume once the final technical details are
resolved.


"Once the minister says the situation is cleared we will be ready
to resume direct budget support to the Palestinian Authority,"
Stoere said following talks with Palestinian Finance Minister
Salam Fayaad in Oslo.


The international community froze aid to the Palestinians after
Hamas swept to power in elections in March 2006. As a condition
to resumption, it has demanded that Hamas renounces violence,
recognises Israel and honours past peace accords.


Norway was the first Western country to normalise ties with the
Palestinian cabinet formed last month by president Mahmud Abbas'
mainstream Fatah party and Prime Minister Ismail Haniya's
hardline Hamas movement.


The United States and the EU consider Hamas a terrorist
organisation and have not formally recognised the government.


In Brussels on Wednesday for talks with EU officials, Fayaad
urged the international community to save the Palestinian
territories from a "very acute financial crisis".


Fayaad warned that he had only about a quarter of the funds
required for 2007, a shortfall of around a billion euros (1.3
billion dollars).


"These are very difficult times for the Palestinian people," he
told reporters, adding that if the international community did
not come to the aid of the Palestinians the outcome would be
"devastating".


The Palestinian people are facing "a very severe and very acute
financial crisis," he warned.

