

A Turkish prosecutor on Thursday ruled out any links between
terrorist organisations and a man who threatened to blow up an
airliner on a domestic flight, the Anatolia news agency reported.


Prosecutor Mehmet Kelkit, who is in charge of terrorism-related
cases, deemed the case outside his jurisdiction after questioning
the hijacker, Mehmet Goksingol, and finding no evidence of
terrorist links, the report said.


The case will now be handled by another prosecutor as a criminal
incident.


Goksingol is expected to be brought before a court later Thursday
to be charged.


Goksingol on Tuesday threatend to blow up an airplane -- en route
from the southeastern city of Diyarbakir to Istanbul -- with what
he claimed to be a bomb attached to his belt and forced it to
land in Ankara, where he surrendered to the security forces about
half an hour later.


He turned out to be unarmed and police found no explosives on the
plane, operated by the private Pegasus Airlines, which had 174
passengers and six crew. No one was injured in the incident.


His motives remain unclear, but witnesses aboard the Boeing
737-800 said Goksinoglu, a 39-year-old Kurd from Diyarbakir,
appeared mentally unstable.


Media reports said the man had a criminal record for drug-related
crimes and illegal possession of weapons and was acquitted of
charges of aiding separatist Kurdish rebels in 1994.


Some reports suggested he was on drugs when he diverted the
plane.


The incident was the second hijacking attempt by an unarmed Turk
claiming to have a bomb in recent months.


In October, an army deserter who was facing arrest on arrival in
Turkey forced a Turkish Airlines plane, en route from Tirana to
Istanbul, to land at an Italian airport.

