

Pro-independence Scots who won a narrow majority of seats to the
Scottish parliament appealed Monday to the reluctant Liberal
Democrats to join them in a new coalition government.


The LibDems, which had been a coalition partner with Britain's
ruling Labour Party until Thursday's elections, are spurning
offers from the Scottish National Party (SNP) so long as it
pushes for a referendum on independence.


However, deputy SNP leader Nicola Sturgeon told BBC radio there
was still room for the two parties to resolve their differences.


"There have been no formal discussions between the SNP and the
Liberal Democrats," Sturgeon told BBC radio's Good Morning
Scotland.


"There have been some informal conversations. In the course of
these, (SNP leader) Alex Salmond made it clear there was scope
for negotiation and scope for compromise," she said.


"But the important thing now is that we get round the table,"
Sturgeon added.


"It may be that we can't resolve our differences -- but I think
we both have a duty in the interest of the country to try," she
said.


The SNP issued the appeal after Nicol Stephen, the leader of the
Scottish Liberal Democrats, on Sunday ruled out any deal with the
SNP so long as it insisted on a referendum on independence.


The SNP won 47 seats in the election which, while not enough to
rule alone, means they could secure a one-seat majority in the
129-member Scottish Parliament if they teamed up with the Liberal
Democrats, who won 16 seats, and the Greens, on two.


Labour won 46 seats, and the Conservatives won 17 in the
assembly, which has powers over a wide variety of policy areas,
including health and education.

