

Serbia's parliament meets Monday to elect a new speaker despite
the continuing failure by reformist parties to form a government
more than three months after elections.


According to local media reports, the post of parliamentary
president could go to Tomislav Nikolic, the leader of the ultra-
nationalist Serbian Radical Party (SRS) which won the most votes
in the January 21 polls.


His candidacy was expected to be backed by most deputies in the
absence of an agreement by the so-called "Democratic bloc" of
parties for a suitable alternative.


Coalition government talks are stalled on disagreement between
President Boris Tadic's Democratic Party (DS) and outgoing Prime
Minister Vojislav Kostunica's Democratic Party of Serbia (DSS)
over key security posts.


In the elections, the Radicals fell short of an outright majority
after claiming 81 of the parliament's 250 seats.


Negotiations on forming a new government have involved the pro-
European DS, moderate nationalist DSS and neo-liberal G17 Plus
parties. The Democrats hold 65 seats, the DSS has 47 and G17 Plus
has 19.


The talks have been deadlocked since Kostunica last week demanded
his party retain control over the interior ministry and the BIA
intelligence agency.


Those positions are crucial power centres in the government as it
handles two critical issues -- the impending final status of
Kosovo and Serbia's bid for European Union membership.


Brussels froze rapprochement talks with Belgrade a year ago
chiefly over its failure to surrender former Bosnian Serb army
chief Ratko Mladic to the UN war crimes court.


Under Serbia's constitution, parties have until May 14 to form a
new government or else new elections must be called.


The absence of an agreement between the Democratic bloc parties
could push Kostunica's DSS to form a governing coalition with the
Radicals and Socialist Party of late autocratic president
Slobodan Milosevic.

