

Sheltering the hundreds of thousands of Iraqis who have left
their homeland is costing Jordan around one billion dollars a
year, the head of the kingdom's information centre said on
Monday.


"The government estimates that the presence of the community is
costing it around one billion dollars," Bishr Khassawneh told a
joint news conference with government spokesman Nasser Jawdeh.


Khassawneh said the precise number of Iraqis in the kingdom and
how many of them were refugees from the violence gripping their
country would emerge in July when the results of a survey by
independent Norwegian research foundation Fafo are published.


The government spokesman urged Iraqis in Jordan to cooperate with
the survey, which was launched in cooperation with the kingdom's
census bureau in March.


"Fafo is seeking to find out more precisely the real numbers of
Iraqis and their status and Iraqis should not hesitate to
cooperate with this survey," Jawdeh said.


The United Nations estimates that some two million of Iraq's 26
million people have left the country since the 2003 invasion
while another 1.7 million have fled their homes for safer areas
within Iraq.


The European Union pledged 10 million euros to help Jordan,
Lebanon and Syria deal with the influx at an international
conference on the Iraqi refugee crisis in Geneva in April.


But EU countries have been reluctant to offer resettlement for
any of the refugees currently in neighbouring countries.


Jawdeh said just 200 Iraqi refugees in Jordan had so far been
resettled in third countries.


"Around 28,000 Iraqis have asked the UN refugee agency for
humanitarian asylum. Some 900 received refugee status and 200
were resettled in other countries," he said.


The UN High Commissioner for Refugees estimates that between
600,000 and one million Iraqi refugees have fled to Syria and
around 750,000 have fled to Jordan. Jordan puts the number at
between 350,000 and 400,000.

