

East Timor presidential candidate Jose Ramos-Horta defended
Monday his moves to halt a manhunt for a fugitive military rebel
partly blamed for last year's unrest in the troubled country.


Ramos-Horta, the current prime minister, denied that he had urged
Australian-led peacekeeping troops to call off their search for
Major Alfredo Reinado for political reasons.


"It has nothing to do with my election (campaign)," Ramos-Horta
told reporters.


"I do not endorse any military security operation against someone
who has already said he is ready to present himself to justice,"
he said.


Ramos-Horta has been criticised by his rival in Wednesday's
runoff for the election of urging the halt so that he could
secure the crucial political backing of the main opposition
party.


Ruling Fretilin party candidate Francisco Guterres claimed that
since making the call, Ramos-Horta had won the backing of the
Democrat Party.


The two men will contest Wednesday's runoff vote for the top job
after both failed to win a majority in the April 9 election.


Foreign peacekeepers have patrolled East Timor for almost a year
to restore order, after gang violence left 37 dead and forced
150,000 to flee their homes.


Elite Australian troops have attempted to capture Reinado, and
stormed one of his hideouts last month killing four supporters.


The hunt has triggered protests, mostly among young people who
support the fugitive leader. The Democrat Party, which finished
third in the April 9 election, polled well among Reinado
supporters.


Ramos-Horta has not have the sole power to call off the hunt.


The Timorese government gave the Australians the green light last
year to capture Reinado, who has been calling for face-to-face
talks after refusing to surrender to foreign troops.

