

The conservative head of Iran's state-run television has said all
homegrown drama programmes should feature scenes showing
characters praying or they will be denied airtime, the ILNA news
agency reported on Monday.


"In the current year, television productions that do not have
prayer scenes will not be allowed to air," said Ezatollah
Zarghami, who is appointed by the supreme leader Ayatollah Ali
Khamenei.


The new directive appears to apply to drama series and television
films but it is not clear whether it also includes programmes
such as game shows and sitcoms.


Citing a scene in a popular Iranian series where a murder suspect
is shown praying, Zarghami said: "Prayer scenes should not be
confined to positive and leading characters, the elderly and the
clean-living types."


He said children's programmes should also seek to teach the young
about praying, which mature Muslims are required to perform five
times a day as one of the five pillars of Islam.


All television and radio broadcast in Iran is state-controlled
and the six national TV channels air a wide range of homegrown
programmes as well as foreign documentaries, series and films.


Though conservative in its overall policy, Iranian television has
experienced some relaxation since Zarghami took over two years
ago, showing recent Hollywood films and controversial talk shows
putting politicians and celebrities in the hot seat.


Religion also plays a conspicuous role. Programming is
interrupted for the broadcast of the daily prayers, newsreaders
invoke God before each bulletin and there are frequent readings
from the Koran.


Officials have sought to make domestic television programmes more
appealing in the past years to compete with satellite television
channels which are banned in Iran but watched by many Iranians.

