

The defence of former Liberian president Charles Taylor, due to
go on trial for war crimes here next month, said Monday that they
needed more senior counsels for the complex case.


In a pre-trial hearing of the case before the Special Court for
Sierra Leone (SCSL), Taylor's lawyer Karim Khan said his client
was concerned he was being "short-changed" with only two
attorneys who can attend his trial against a prosecution legal
team of at least 10 people.


The trial, which was moved to The Hague to the premises of the
International Criminal Court (ICC) for security reasons is set to
start in June and the defence is trying to get a more senior
lawyer on board, Khan said.


Taylor is seen as the single most powerful figure behind a series
of civil wars in Liberia and neighbouring Sierra Leone between
1989 and 2003 which left around 400,000 people dead.


The former warlord-turned-president has been indicted by the
United Nations- backed Special Court for Sierra Leone on charges
of crimes against humanity, war crimes and violations of
international human rights. He maintains his innocence.


Taylor was in court Monday listening attentively to the
proceedings and making notes. Dressed in a dark grey suit Taylor
also wore sunglasses in court because he suffered from an eye
infection, his lawyers said.


On Monday the defence also complained they had difficulty getting
witnesses to testify in the case because of a UN Security Council
resolution that imposes travel bans on people deemed close
associates of Taylor.


According to Khan many witnesses are reluctant to testify because
they are afraid of being slapped with a travel ban if they appear
on his behalf during the trial.

