

Sri Lanka wants foreign countries to close financial loopholes
currently allowing Tamil Tiger rebels to raise money overseas
which later fuels the war at home, a leading banker said Monday.


Central Bank of Sri Lanka Governor Nivard Cabraal said island
authorities have uncovered a scam to bring 40 million dollars
into the country under the guise of aid money to rebuild areas
affected by the December 2004 tsunami.


"The LTTE (Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam) has used the cover
of charities to raise money to buy arms and ammunition and they
continue to raise money through other forms overseas to fight the
war," Cabraal said.


He said the government was appealing to the international
community to close all loopholes the LTTE could use to raise
funds.


"The LTTE was recently caught in Britain skimming over 100
million pounds off the British public by using credit cards,"
Cabraal said, referring to an alleged scam in which thousands of
British motorists were robbed of cash each time they topped up at
petrol stations using credit cards.


"We are appealing to the international community now to help us
eradicate terrorism, by stopping funding sources like this,"
Cabraal said.


The Central Bank last year froze bank accounts of a pro-rebel
Tamil charity set up to help Tamils displaced by the tsunami, and
blocked at least 750,000 dollars deposited in commercial banks.


The accounts remained frozen pending court proceedings as
authorities alleged that the funds were being used to procure
arms for the rebels and not to rehabilitate tsunami victims.

