

Hong Kong share prices closed up 0.27 percent for another record
close Monday, led by gains in China-related stocks although
stocks pulled back after breaking the 21,000 points level,
dealers said.


The market came off the day's highs as property stocks saw some
profit-taking in late trade after an early advance driven by
expectations of strong bids at a government land auction Tuesday.


China stocks managed to sustain their gains on hopes that
mainland bourses will rise further when they resume trade Tuesday
after the May Day holidays.


The benchmark Hang Seng Index ended up 55.56 points at a new
closing high of 20,896.64 after moving to a low of 20,891.06 and
an all-time high of 21,070.21.


Turnover was 67.98 billion Hong Kong dollars (8.7 billion US
dollars).


The index's previous all-time intraday high was 20,971.46,
reached on January 24, while its previous closing high was
20,841.08, hit last Friday.


Conita Hung, research head at Delta Asia Securities, said the
local bourse "reflected the strong performance of markets
overseas".


The market was supported by select H-share counters including
China Life and banking stocks, she said, but noted that many
investors took profits after the HSI breached the 21,000 level.


"Investors kept a cautious outlook after the index touched 21,000
points. Many locked in profits mostly in property counters," Hung
said.


China Life closed up 0.55 at 25.45, Chalco was up 0.25 at 9.34,
Angang New Steel rose 0.44 to 16.22 and Anhui Conch gained 4.0 at
35.30.


Among other China plays, China Construction Bank was up 0.06 at
4.95, Bank of China gained 0.01 at 3.93 and BoComm rose 0.01 to
8.33.


ICBC was up 0.03 at 4.32 and China Merchants Bank added 0.30 at
19.84.


PetroChina fell on profit-taking after early gains driven by last
week's news of a major oil find in the northeastern Bohai Bay.
The stock was down 0.04 at 10.12.


Property stocks saw some profit-taking after posting strong gains
in early trade on expectations that Tuesday's land auction will
draw strong bids from developers.


"Many expect the land auction to generate strong bids from
developers; that's why property stocks rose recently. However,
the recent rally is worrisome for some investors who feel the
sector will be vulnerable to further profit-taking after the land
auction," Hung said.


Cheung Kong lost 0.50 at 109.0 after hitting an intraday high of
111.50, while New World Development fell 0.60 to 20.10 and Sino
Land was down 0.10 at 17.90.


Henderson Land was up 1.30 at 55.35, Sun Hung Kai Properties was
up 0.10 at 96.35 off its high of 97.25.


Large-caps were mixed, with China Mobile up 0.25 at 72.60, HSBC
was down 0.20 at 146.70 and Hutchison Whampoa was up 1.35 at
78.95.


Local banks were lower on profit-taking after recent gains, with
Hang Seng Bank down 2.0 at 110.90, Bank of East Asia down 1.05 at
46.30, and BOC Hong Kong down 0.04 at 19.52.

