

Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono Monday dismissed
five ministers in a cabinet reshuffle but stopped short of
sacking two accused of negligence.


Yudhoyono brought in five new faces and promoted graft-fighter
Hendarman Supanji to Attorney-General in a move seen as
bolstering his government's fight against corruption.


"This limited reshuffle is aimed at improving the government's
performance in the two-and-a-half years ahead," said Yudhoyono.


"We put the right men in the right place in the new ministerial
cabinet."


Among those dismissed were justice and human rights minister
Hamid Awaluddin and secretary of state Yusril Mahendra, under
fire over allegations they helped Tommy Suharto transfer money he
was suspected of corruptly obtaining.


The youngest son of former dictator Suharto, Tommy remains the
enduring symbol of the corruption that plagued his father's more
than three-decade rule.


Yudhoyono, midway through his five-year term, has come under
pressure to sack embattled Transport Minister Hatta Radjasa over
a slew of recent transport disasters that have killed several
hundred people.


But instead Yudhoyono transferred Radjasa to the prestigious
position of Secretary of State.


Aburizal Bakrie, the minister responsible for coordinating social
welfare, has kept his portfolio.


Bakrie has been in the firing line after an energy firm linked to
his family was blamed for triggering a mud flow in East Java that
displaced 15,000 people and swamped infrastructure.


Bakrie also oversees multiple efforts to combat bird flu in
Indonesia, the nation worst hit by the deadly virus.


Yudhoyono also retained his team of finance ministers and foreign
minister.

