

Hollywood's most eagerly awaited summer movies could provide a
major cash boost for Indian cinema owners after a poor year at
the box-office for Bollywood films, analysts said.


"Spiderman 3", "Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End" and
"Shrek the Third" are all set to debut in the subcontinent this
May in time for school holidays.


So far, only two of nearly 50 Bollywood releases this year have
been successful at the box-office, in contrast with a record-
breaking performance in 2006, according to industry experts.


But Hollywood films are expected to do well in India.


"Indian summers usually come with a series of comedy/action
Bollywood movies. This year it dons a new look, the Hollywood
splash," said Vinod Mirani, a trade analyst.


"Nearly all of Hollywood's releases in India are dubbed in at
least five regional Indian languages to draw newer crowds,"
Mirani said.


Some of Bollywood's most reliable producers have failed at the
box-office this year.


"Ta Ra Rum Pum (Don't Worry Be Happy)", a much-awaited release
from Yash Raj Films saw cinema halls about half full at the
opening across India on April 27.


"The movie simply failed to live up to expectations," Mirani
said.


Another analyst said major cinema owners have dropped Bollywood
films, preferring to highlight Hollywood fare.


"Spider Man is hot property at the moment," said Mumbai-based
Taran Adarsh. "The film is likely to find a good audience in
India."


"Spiderman 3" opened across India's major cities on Friday, after
smashing box office records across eight Asian markets.


India produces the most films per country worldwide, led by the
Mumbai-based Bollywood industry, known for its formulaic love
stories punctuated by song-and- dance scenes.

