

The French economy outperformed targets in the first two
quarters, French Economy Minister Thierry Breton said on Monday,
only hours after the victory of rightwing reformist Nicolas
Sarkozy in the presidential election.


Sarkozy campaigned on a platform of radical reforms to free-up
the economy, ratcheting up some measures already being tried by
the centre-right government of which he was a rebel member until
recently.


Breton said that growth of the economy in the first and second
quarters would be "revised upwards" to "between 2.5 and 3.0
percent" on a 12-month basis.


"Growth in France for the first and second quarters will
certainly be revised up," he said in remarks on French radio
station Europe One.


"The government's range was betwen 2.0 and 2.5 percent at an
annualised rate. I think that we are closer to 2.5-3.0 percent in
the first and second quarters."


The statistics institute INSEE is to publish its first estimate
for growth in the first quarter on May 15.


At the end of March it had counted on growth of gross domestic
product of 0.5-0.6 percent in the first two quarters, which would
point to growth for the year "close to 2.0 percent as in 2006",
it said.


The Bank of France said in the middle of April that it expected
the economy to grow by 0.8 percent in the first quarter, implying
12-month growth of 3.2 percent.


Breton said: "The economic situation is sharply better than it
was two or three years ago. That is a fact."


Breton, who became Economy and Finance Minister in February 2005,
said: "I am fighting for growth in France which should be between
three percent and four percent. Will this come in 2008? Will it
come in 2009? I can't say."

