

US aluminum giant Alcoa said Monday it was offering 33 billion
dollars for Canadian rival Alcan, saying the acquisition would
create a "premier" global leader in the sector.


Alcoa, the world's largest aluminum company, said it was offering
73.25 US dollars per share for Alcan, a 32 percent premium to
Alcan's closing price on Friday.


"The transaction will create a premier diversified global
aluminum company, with a complementary portfolio of assets and
enhanced growth opportunities, and better position the combined
company to build value for shareholders," Alcoa said in a
statement.


Alain Belda, chairman and chief executive of Alcoa, said the
offer was made after nearly two years of discussions between the
two firms on a tie-up.


"We are very disappointed that those efforts did not result in a
negotiated transaction -- a conclusion we would have strongly
preferred," he said.


"We believe firmly in the compelling strategic rationale behind
the combination of Alcoa and Alcan and are convinced that this
transaction creates substantial value for both sets of
shareholders and for our customers around the world. We are
therefore taking our offer directly to Alcan shareholders."


Alcoa said a tie-up would create "a stronger, more diverse global
competitor with the scale and cost structure to be competitive
over the long term within a rapidly changing industry landscape."


The US firm said a combined company would also have increased
financial resources for environmental initiatives such as curbing
greenhouse gas emissions.

