

The European Commission raised on Monday its forecast for German
growth this year, expecting the biggest economy in Europe to
expand by 2.5 percent, up sharply from a February estimate of 1.8
percent.


The forecast makes the European Union's executive arm even more
optimistic than the German government, which raised its 2007
growth forecast to 2.3 percent last month.


It also means that German growth would be only slightly slower
than European averages, with growth forecast at 2.6 percent in
the 13-nation eurozone and 2.9 percent in the 27-member EU.


Looking ahead, the Commission forecast that growth in the German
economy would slow only marginally next year to 2.4 percent as
several lean years at the beginning of the decade recede into the
past.


Germany emerged from its economic stupor last year with growth of
2.7 percent, the European heavyweight's strongest performance
since the turn of the decade.


The impact of an increase in value added tax at the beginning of
this year was expected to prove to be "short-lived" with
consumption and investment due to remain on positive trend,
according to the Commission.


Economists have been lifting their forecasts for German economic
growth with the impact of the VAT increase, from 16 percent to 19
percent, on demand turning out to be weaker than was widely
expected.


The economic upswing is helping to drive down unemployment, which
has been stubbornly high in the past, and fill the government's
coffers after years of overspending.


With companies stepping up hiring, the Commission forecast that
the German unemployment rate would fall to 7.3 percent this year
and 6.5 percent in 2008 from 8.4 percent in 2006.

