

Embattled Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert was due to face
motions of no- confidence in parliament on Monday, the latest
backlash over a scathing inquiry into his handling of last year's
Lebanon war.


Parliament was due to debate three no-confidence motions that
were lodged by both right-wing and left-wing opposition parties
at an afternoon session, officials said.


Most observers do not expect the measures to pass as Olmert still
enjoys the support of most of his 78-member coalition in the
120-seat chamber.


Earlier the head of the main right-wing opposition Likud party, a
sponsor of one of the motions, called on Olmert to step down.


"The vast majority of Israeli opinion demands that the prime
minister resign and that is also what the opposition is
demanding," former premier Benjamin Netanyahu, whose Likud party
would win early elections according to polls, told public radio.


"Judge Winograd's report clearly established that the government
has failed in its handling of the war" against Lebanon's
Hezbollah militia last summer, he said.


The embattled Olmert, already weakened by months of criticism
over the war and a string of scandals marring his government, has
refused enormous pressure from the press, the opposition and the
public to resign in the wake of an interim government inquiry
into last year's 34-day war released a week ago.


The report blasted Olmert for serious failure in his handling of
the conflict, and said that Defence Minister Amir Peretz and ex-
chief of staff Dan Halutz failed in their posts, but stopped
short of calling for resignations.


Olmert has said quitting would be irresponsible and has vowed
that his government would correct the errors uncovered by the
report.

