

Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero called
France's president- elect Nicolas Sarkozy on Monday to discuss
cooperation in Europe and in Mediterranean countries, a spokesman
for the prime minister's office said.


Zapatero called Sarkozy on Monday morning to congratulate him on
winning the presidential election in France the day before, the
spokesman said.


"The conversation was very cordial and they raised the issue of
cooperation in Europe and in the Mediterranean," he said, adding
that the two men had decided to meet soon but had not yet set a
date.


Late Sunday, a Zapatero spokesman said Spain's Socialist prime
minister congratulated Sarkozy, who he said "represents an open
and modern right".


Zapatero considers Sarkozy to be a "solid politician whose style
and proposals have convinced a majority of the French people," he
added.


Throughout the election campaign, Zapatero did not conceal his
preference for Sarkozy's opponent, fellow leftwinger Segolene
Royal, appearing alongside her at a campaign rally in Toulouse
before the first round of voting.


In an interview with AFP on April 15 the Spanish prime minister
said he had "great political empathy" with Royal even as he said
he had "respect" and "admiration" for Sarkozy.


Sarkozy has said he will make finding a way forward for the
European Union one of his priorities as president, and has called
for the creation of a Mediterranean "union" to forge the way in
European-African cooperation.

