

China faces a looming baby boom as newly-rich couples find they
can afford to pay fines incurred from having more than one child,
state media reported on Monday.


Upward pressure on the birthrate also is coming from millions of
Chinese in their 20s and 30s who are allowed two children under
the policy because they themselves were single children, Xinhua
news agency quoted China's top family planning official as
saying.


China adopted its one-child policy in 1979 to curb population
growth. It encourages late marriages and late childbearing and
limits most urban couples to one child and most rural couples to
two.


The government claims the policy has led to 400 million fewer
births in a nation of 1.3 billion people, but it is
controversial. Many families want to keep having children until a
male heir is born.


National Population and Family Planning Commission director Zhang
Weiqing said the number of rich people having more than one child
is rapidly rising, citing a recent survey by his organisation.


He also said early marriages are on the rise again in many rural
parts of the country, Xinhua reported.


Separately, growing numbers of pregnant women are risking their
own lives and those of their children by seeking back-alley
deliveries to avoid fines for having more than one child, Xinhua
quoted vice health minister Jiang Zuojun as saying.


Fines range from under 5,000 yuan (646 dollars) to 200,000 yuan
(25,800 dollars) depending on the violator's location and income.


Xinhua said about half of maternal deaths in east China's Jiangxi
province resulted from illegal pregnancies.

