

A Jordanian court has ordered the retrial of nine Al-Qaeda-linked
Islamists sentenced to death last year over a foiled chemical
attack citing procedural violations, a defence lawyer said
Monday.


"We are very happy with the decision taken by the Cassation
Court," lawyer Mohammad Mehyar told AFP.


The cassation court ruled that the state security court violated
procedure by allowing prosecutor Mahmud Obeidat to interrogate
the suspects while he was himself among the defendants' alleged
targets, Mehyar said.


The decision paves the way for the retrial of the men sentenced
to death, who included then Al-Qaeda frontman in Iraq Abu Musab
al-Zarqawi, who was slain in a US raid in June 2006, Mehyar said.


In February 2006 Jordan's state security court sentenced Zarqawi,
then a fugitive, and eight others to death for plotting a
chemical bomb attack on intelligence services on Zarqawi's
orders.


Only five of the defendants were arrested in the case, including
alleged Jordanian ringleader Azmi Jayussi, Mehyar's client
Hussein Sharif and a Syrian national, all part of the so-called
Tawheed Brigades.


From the onset of the trial defence lawyers complained of
irregularities concerning the arrest and interrogation of their
clients, arguing specifically that Obeidat "could not be judge
and litigant" in the case, Mehyar said.


But the state security court overruled them saying Obeidat was
acting in a professional capacity.


A new trial is expected soon, with a new prosecutor in charge,
although no date has been announced, Mehyar said.

