

The European Union's German presidency expressed confidence
Monday that the EU will take over the Galileo satellite project,
faced with demands for more time and money from private builders.


"I am confident we will reach a solution on that in June" when EU
transport ministers meet, said German Transport Minister Wolfgang
Tiefensee, whose country holds the EU presidency until the end of
next month.


"There will be greater participation by the public sector in the
construction phase of the system," he said, three days before a
deadline for the eight private builders to sort out their
differences.


The Galileo project is meant to compete with the US Global
Positioning Satellite (GPS) navigation system, which is free and
used in many vehicles, boats and aircraft, but has been accused
of being unreliable.


But almost two years after being named, a private consortium of
industry giants -- AENA, Alcatel, EADS, Finmeccanica, Hispasat,
Inmarsat, TeleOp and Thales -- has made little progress on the
project, angering the commission.


"Galileo is going through a deep and grave crisis," Tiefensee
said.


He said it was probable that public funds would be used in the
"construction" of the system while the private partners would
take responsibility for the "exploitation phase".


One official has said that completely taking over Galileo would
cost a just less than two billion euros (2.7 billion dollars) on
top of the 1.5 billion euros the European Commission already
allocated in the 2007-2013 budget period.


EU Transport Commissioner Jacques Barrot is due to present on May
16 a list of alternatives for the struggling project.


They are expected to range from totally taking over Galileo, a
system of some 30 satellites which could be operational as late
as 2013, partially financing the project or abandoning it
altogether, officials have said.

