

A bank cash distributor and a post office in Spain's northern
Basque region were attacked overnight after a supreme court
ruling banned candidates linked to Basque separatists, police
said on Monday.


The attacks in Pamplona follow Sunday's court ban on most
candidates of a political party the authorities say is linked to
the Basque separatist group ETA from taking part in May local
elections.


A spokesman for the government of Navarre, an autonomous Basque
region, told AFP that molotov cocktails had been thrown at a
Pamplona post office and two incendiary devices had been launched
against a Caja Madrid cash point.


"The police believe these attacks are a response to the decision
of the supreme court to ban the lists of the Action Nationalist
Basque (ANV) party," the spokesman said.


Set up in 1930, the ANV was one of the movements which founded
Batasuna in 1978. The name was resurrected recently and the
government suspects it has been infiltrated by members of the
outlawed separatist party.


Unlike Batasuna it is legal because its charter rejects violence
as required by Spanish law.


The 16 Supreme Court judges reached their rulings unanimously
based on a law which prevents the succession or continuation of a
banned political party.


Batasuna, which won 10 percent of the vote in regional elections
in 2001 and 20 percent in 1999 municipal elections, has said that
banning it from the polls would make it difficult to reach a
peaceful solution to the Basque conflict.

