

An Australian gangland killer was Monday sentenced to 35 years in
jail for the murders of several rivals, bringing to an end a case
which exposed the brutality of criminal life in the country's
second biggest city.


Carl Williams had pleaded guilty to the murders of career
criminal Lewis Moran, his son Jason Moran and drug dealer Mark
Mallia.


In sentencing him to a non-parole period of 35 years, Justice
Betty King said the baby-faced Williams had taken it upon himself
to decide who lived and who died during Melbourne's criminal war
which began in the late 1990s and eventually claimed 29 lives.


"You were indeed the puppet master deciding and controlling
whether people lived or died," King said.


She said 36-year-old Williams had shown a callous indifference to
the murders, one of which was staged in front of children at a
football match.


King said the killings took place during an extraordinary time in
Melbourne's history and were "horrifically violent."


The brutality of the deaths, and the fact that two occurred in
public, had created genuine fear within the community, she said.


As the Victorian Supreme Court adjourned, Williams hit back,
telling the judge: "You are not a judge. You are only a puppet of
the police."


The case had gripped the public but police warned that Williams
did not deserve such attention.


"He's not a B-grade movie actor, he's actually a serious
criminal," Deputy Commissioner Simon Overland said.


"He's been a significant threat to the Victorian community and
we're very, very pleased that he'll be spending the next 35 years
in jail."


Judy Moran, who husband and sons died during the violence, said
Williams should be hanged.


"Hung or a lethal injection, that's what you do with evil
people," she said.

