

Indian liquor baron Vijay Mallya and owner of an airline named
after his flagship beer brand, Kingfisher, said on Monday that he
was interested in buying the country's largest budget carrier Air
Deccan.


"Am I interested? Yes. Am I imminently acquiring? No," chief
executive Mallya told reporters in New Delhi.


Mallya's comments, at a press conference with Airbus Industries
in New Delhi to mark the airline's second anniversary by
showcasing the superjumbo A380, followed media reports last week
that his company had offered to buy Bangalore- based Air Deccan.


The budget carrier reported a loss of 2.13 billion rupees (52
million dollars) in the quarter ended March 31.


A deal would create an airline that would control 38 percent of
India's domestic aviation market, overtaking the 33 percent share
of Jet Airways, which last month bought rival Air Sahara for 14.5
billion rupees.


Jet Airways plans to turn Air Sahara into a budget carrier called
Jet Lite to tap the low-fare segment that has contributed to 20
percent annual growth in India's aviation industry over the past
four years.


From just three in 2003, the number of airlines in India has
jumped to 10, as the booming air travel is expected to more than
double the domestic market size to 60 million passengers by 2010.


Jet Airways, Indian Airlines and Air Sahara were joined by Air
Deccan, Kingfisher, SpiceJet, Paramount Airways, Go Air, IndiGo
and Indus Airways, with a few more seeking government approval to
take to the skies.


Competition in India's airline sector has cut travel costs, but
has also squeezed profitability and paved the way for a wave of
consolidation through closures and mergers, an industry report
released in February said.

