

The owner of the Macau bank at the heart of a dispute over North
Korea's nuclear disarmament said on Monday he is challenging a US
decision to shut it out of the global banking system.


Stanley Au, chairman of Banco Delta Asia (BDA), said he had filed
a personal petition in Washington to back up the bank's similar
challenge to the US Treasury's ruling to bar US banks from doing
business with it.


Au accused the US Treasury of failing to consult with him on its
concerns but instead making its decision "solely on speculation."


"There is no evidence that the bank was complicit in North Korean
counterfeiting, as Treasury suggests," Au said in a statement
released through his lawyers.


He said the Treasury did not cite any proof that the bank's
owners or former managers "ignored, facilitated or even
encouraged" illicit activities.


"Drastic action that threatens the bank's very existence has been
taken without any specific charges being made and without any
evidence of wrongdoing on the part of the bank or its owners," Au
said.


The US Treasury blacklisted BDA in September 2005 on a "primary
money-laundering concern" for North Korea as the Macau Monetary
Authority took control of the bank.


Pyongyang missed an April 14 deadline to start shutting down a
nuclear reactor as part of an international disarmament deal,
saying it would not do so until it had received 25 million US
dollars frozen in BDA.


The US and Macau authorities said in March the funds had been
unfrozen and were available for collection. But there were
apparent problems in persuading a foreign bank to handle money
seen as tainted.

