

A Japanese anti-trust watchdog raided rubber makers Bridgestone
and Yokohama on Monday in connection with a suspected
international cartel to fix prices for marine hoses used to move
oil.


"We are making on-the-spot inspections at the premises of these
firms today. We cannot comment whether we will investigate other
companies as well," an administrative director at the Fair Trade
Commission said.


Both Bridgestone Corp. and Yokohama Rubber Co., which dominate
the domestic market for marine hoses, said in statements they
were extending their "full cooperation" in the investigation.


The probe followed the arrest in the United States last Wednesday
of eight executives of six companies from Britain, France, Italy
and Japan on suspicion of colluding in a cartel to fix prices for
the hoses.


Misao Hioki, a Bridgestone executive, was among the eight,
according to a US Justice Department announcement.


The department said the eight were involved in a "conspiracy to
rig bids, fix prices, and allocate markets for United States
sales of marine hose used to transport oil."


Marine hoses are used to transport oil between tankers and
storage facilities and buoys.


The European Commission said Friday it made unannounced
inspections at the premises of marine hose producers in France,
Italy and the United Kingdom in a concerted action with the US
Justice Department.


The companies named by US authorities are PW Consulting Ltd.
(Britain), Dunlop Oil and Marine Ltd. (Britain), Trelleborg
Industrie S.A. (France), Parker ITR (Italy), Manuli Rubber
Industries SpA (Italy) and Bridgestone Corp. (Japan).

