

A former leader of the doomsday cult that launched a deadly
nerve-gas attack on Tokyo's subway has set up a new splinter
group, Japan's intelligence agency said Monday.


Fumihiro Joyu, seen as a moderate in the Aum Supreme Truth cult,
and some 65 followers defected in March to break away from the
sect's apocalyptic-minded founder Shoko Asahara.


The bearded, half-blind Asahara is awaiting execution for the
sarin nerve gas attack which killed 12 people and injured
thousands in March 1995.


The splinter group, named Hikari no Wa (circle of brilliance) has
about 200 members including new recruits.


On its website, it said: "While Aum Supreme Truth separated the
sect from society and confronted society, our new organisation
seeks life in cooperation among all people and this idea is
represented by the word 'wa' (circle)."


A spokesman of the Public Security Intelligence Agency said:
"Executive members visited the agency today and reported that a
new group has been established."


He declined to disclose further details.


"The new organisation will seek to the last moment Mr. Asahara's
sincere self- criticism over the series of Aum incidents," Joyu
said on the website.


Japanese authorities warned last month that Joyu and his faction
members were not really breaking away from the founder but only
"posing to get rid of Asahara's influence."


The sect remains legal but under close surveillance, with
authorities previously warning of potential unrest when Asahara
is executed.


Asahara, whose real name is Chizuo Matsumoto, was sentenced to
death in 2004 over the attack and lost his last chance of appeal
in September.


After the rush-hour attack, the Aum cult renamed itself Aleph --
after the first letter in the Hebrew alphabet -- and deposed
Asahara. But authorities say hardcore followers still revere him.

