

The Gulf state of Qatar gave 22 million dollars to the Arab
League on Monday so that teachers in the Palestinian territories
can be paid, a League representative said.


"This sum is the third instalment of a Qatari donation to support
the Palestinian people and pay the salaries of Palestinian
teachers," Mohammed Sobeih told journalists in Cairo, where the
22-member league is based.


"The Arab League will transfer this amount through its own
mechanism to the Palestinian Authority," he said.


Qatar has already donated two previous amounts of 22 million
dollars each to the Palestinian Authority, again to pay teachers'
salaries.


Last week hundreds of angry Palestinian teachers staged a protest
demanding to be paid their salaries in full, as well as several
months' arrears.


At the start of the school year they went on strike for two
months because they had not been paid. In recent months they have
received part of their salaries, thanks mainly to the money from
Qatar.


The Palestinian Authority still faces diplomatic and financial
restrictions despite the formation in March of a government of
national unity grouping the Islamist Hamas movement and the Fatah
faction of president Mahmud Abbas.


It replaced a Hamas-controlled government which was paralysed by
a Western aid boycott and financial sanctions imposed after the
Islamists took power in March last year after winning legislative
elections in the Palestinian territories.


The boycott was imposed because of Hamas's refusal to recognise
Israel's right to exist, renounce violence and abide by past
peace agreements.

