

Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak on Monday urged his Sudanese
counterpart Omar al-Beshir to seek a comprehensive Darfur peace
deal modeled on the agreement that ended Sudan's 21-year north-
south war.


"There is no alternative to the broadening of the Abuja accord to
include all rebel factions," Mubarak's spokesman Suleiman Awwad
told reporters after the two presidents met.


Khartoum reached a peace agreement with Darfur rebels on May 5,
2006 in Nigeria but only one of three negotiating rebel factions
endorsed the deal and violence has since spiralled.


Holdout rebel groups have supported international calls for
sanctions against Beshir's regime and the deployment of a robust
UN peacekeeping force to prop up the embattled African Union
contingent already on the ground.


Mubarak stressed that a peace deal in Darfur should be "inspired
by the Machakos protocols and Naivasha agreement."


He was referring to peace talks in two Kenyan towns that led to
the signing of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement in January 2005
between Khartoum and southern rebels, ending what was then
Africa's longest-running civil war.


Awwad said Egypt would only send additional police and army
forces to Darfur if a more inclusive peace agreement was reached
there.


Western powers and the United Nations have grown impatient with
Khartoum over its refusal to welcome UN peacekeepers, prompting
US and British threats of further sanctions against the Sudanese
government.


Mubarak, a close Khartoum ally, reiterated his opposition to new
sanctions on Egypt's southern neighbour.


"President Mubarak stressed that Egypt saw as inappropriate the
attempt by some international powers to increase the pressure on
Sudan," Awwad said.


Khartoum recently accepted the first two phases of a UN
peacekeeping plan for Darfur but has stalled the final and most
contentious stage which is supposed to see the creation of a
20,000-strong "hybrid" UN-AU force.

