

Iran needs to postpone until September a plan scheduled for
implementation this month to ration petrol that is expected to
have a huge impact on the economy, a top MP was quoted as saying
on Monday.


The plan, aimed reducing the lavish subsidies that keep petrol
prices low, should be put off as the technology to enforce the
rationing is not ready, the head of parliament's energy
commission, Kamal Daneshyar said according to local media.


"Based on the studies of our commission the ground is not ready
to implement the rationing using smart cards, so we have to give
another chance to the government," said Daneshyar.


"We have received reports that the devices for reading the smart
cards  break down quickly and some pumps end up working
backwards. This means that instead of pumping petrol they suck up
the petrol from the vehicles," he added.


"Therefore until these problems are addressed, the rationing
project has to be postponed until around end of September," he
concluded.


The lavish consumption by Iranian drivers, encouraged by the
subsidised prices that work out less than a comparable amount of
mineral water, forces OPEC's number two producer to import
billions of dollars of extra petrol annually.


There is a consensus in Iran that this colossal burden on the
budget cannot continue but the government is aware that Iranians
have become very used over the years to cheap petrol.


Economists have also warned that the rises in petrol prices could
further stoke inflation in Iran, which already a source of
concern to the government and is estimated by parliament at over
20 percent.


Tehran has been abuzz with talk about the change with
advertisements in newspapers and television urging people to
obtain the smart cards to buy their petrol.


Under the plan approved by the Iranian parliament in early March,
Iranian motorists will have to pay a higher price for any petrol
they buy above a certain rationed quota.


The quota has yet to be defined the government.

