

Asian stocks pushed the boundaries even further on Monday with
investors cheered by another record finish on Wall Street,
heightened takeover activity and solid corporate profit results.


New York notched-up its fourth straight all-time record closing
high last Friday on mergers and data suggesting US economic
conditions are slowing but not stalling and this helped Tokyo to
a gain of 1.58 percent.


Sydney gained 0.49 percent, Seoul was up 1.07 percent, Hong Kong
advanced 0.27 percent, Jakarta went ahead by 0.18 percent and
Kuala Lumpur rose 0.13 percent -- with all five benchmarks
closing in record territory.


Manila was up 1.57 percent and Taipei gained 1.58 percent, its
highest levels since mid-2000.


However, Singapore and Wellington eased slightly on profit taking
after both benchmarks also struck record highs during intra-day
trade. Mumbai shed 0.39 percent on a strengthening local
currency.


Shanghai and Bangkok were closed for public holidays.


TOKYO: Share prices jumped 1.58 percent as the market played
catch up after a four-day weekend with Wall Street's record
breaking performance.


Dealers said the weaker yen against the dollar also helped
sentiment, especially in the exporters who benefit directly,
helping boost stocks across the board.


The Nikkei-225 index gained 274.91 points at 17,669.83. Volume
increased to 2.20 billion shares from 1.71 billion on Wednesday.


"A strong showing by US and European shares, boosted by news of
active merger deals and negotiations, drove up Tokyo shares
across the board," said Nikko Cordial Securities in a commentary.


The dollar stood above 120 yen level in early trade, lending
support to exporter shares.


Speculation that Microsoft is eyeing a stake in Yahoo! triggered
interest in local Internet stocks after the news helped spur
buying in the US stock market late last week, dealers said.


Yahoo! Japan rallied 2,050 yen or 4.8 percent to 44,800 while
another Internet firm, Nifty, jumped 2,000 yen or 1.83 percent to
111,000.


HONG KONG: Share prices closed up 0.27 percent for another record
close, led by gains in China-related stocks although stocks
pulled back after breaking the 21,000 points level.


Dealers said the market came off the day's highs as property
stocks saw some profit-taking in late trade after an early
advance driven by expectations of strong bids at a government
land auction Tuesday.


China stocks managed to sustain their gains on hopes that
mainland bourses will rise further when they resume trade Tuesday
after the May Day holidays.


The Hang Seng Index ended up 55.56 points at 20,896.64. Turnover
was 67.98 billion Hong Kong dollars (8.7 billion US dollars).


Conita Hung, research head at Delta Asia Securities, said the
local bourse "reflected the strong performance of markets
overseas".


The market was supported by select H-share counters including
China Life and banking stocks, she said, but noted that many
investors took profits after the HSI breached the 21,000 level.


"Investors kept a cautious outlook after the index touched 21,000
points. Many locked in profits mostly in property counters," Hung
said.


China Life closed up 0.55 at 25.45.


SEOUL: Share prices gained 1.07 percent to a record high, with
sentiment boosted by gains on Wall Street and strong performances
in other key Asian markets.


Dealers said institutions and retail investors were buying local
stocks, with gains broad based. IT companies and builders were
among the most sought-after stocks.


The KOSPI index closed up 16.72 points at a record 1,584.46.
Volume was 429 million shares worth 4.9 trillion won (5.27
billion dollars).


"The market made a solid rally, in line with other firmer Asian
markets, with large cap IT stocks, which have missed out on
recent rises, emerging as key gainers today," said Kyobo
Securities analyst Park Seok-Hyun.


Samsung Electronics was up 11,000 won at 587,000.


TAIPEI: Share prices closed 0.61 percent higher, with sentiment
bolstered by Wall Street's extended gains Friday and the prospect
of former premier Frank Hsieh representing the ruling Democratic
Progressive Party (DPP) in the 2008 presidential election,
dealers said.


The initial results of the primary has ended infighting among the
party's four candidates and Hsieh's victory secured a positive
response from the market given his pragmatic approach to cross-
strait relations with China.


Increasing expectations for a recovery in the technology sector
coupled with an upswing in the real estate market also lent
support, they said.


The weighted index closed up 49.21 points at 8,115.27 on turnover
of 106.76 billion Taiwan dollars (3.21 billion US).


Fubon Securities senior vice president Frank Lin said gains on
global markets and the latest political development won
endorsement from investors.


"Wall Street's gains on Friday and the rise of some Asian markets
this morning set a good example for the local bourse today," he
said.


Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co lost 0.60 to 68.50 dollars.


SHANGHAI: Closed.


SYDNEY: Share prices rose 0.49 percent, chalking up a fourth
consecutive record finish as speculation of a merger between
mining heavyweights BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto pushed stocks
higher.


Dealers said the gains in the big miners offset profit taking
elsewhere as well as uncertainty over a 11.1 billion dollar (9.2
billion US) bid for national airline Qantas.


The S&P/ASX 200 closed up 30.8 points at 6,335.7. Turnover
was 1.62 billion shares worth 5.87 billion dollars (4.8 billion
US).


The big miners led the market higher, following strong gains last
week on the back of robust base metal prices in London.


BHP Billiton jumped 0.96 dollars or 3.14 percent at 31.56 dollars
while Rio Tinto added 4.53 dollars or 5.22 percent to a record
close of 91.38 dollars.


Equities analyst Ron Cameron said market interest was focused on
Rio Tinto, despite little evidence of a takeover.


"The chatter is there, no doubt, but we haven't seen anything yet
-- these things get talked about but there's no real evidence,"
said Cameron, of Ord Minnett.


"I feel the outlook is supportive of share price rises even
without the takeover talk," he added.


Qantas was suspended pending a further statement amid confusion
about the status of the bid.


SINGAPORE: Share prices closed 0.23 percent lower as investors
consolidated their positions after the index touched new record
peaks earlier in the session.


Dealers said some investors took profits on a belief the market
was overbought.


The Straits Times Index slipped 8.17 points to 3,477.59. Volume
traded was 3.47 billion shares worth 1.46 billion Singapore
dollars (2.20 billion US).


"There's no fresh developments. We were up so many days, I would
think we are overbought," a dealer with a European brokerage
said.


Analysts at DBS Vickers Securities said the retreat was temporary
and that strong economic fundamentals and expectations of more
robust quarterly corporate earnings would continue to support the
market this week.


"(We) expect further upside to 3,554 and 3,614 before the
likelihood of a technical pullback occurs," DBS Vickers said.


Singapore Telecommunications fell 0.02 to 3.40.


KUALA LUMPUR: Share prices closed up 0.13 percent on the back of
gains in banking stocks with the benchmark index hitting a new
all time high.


Dealers said losses by plantation stocks on concerns the
government may impose a tax on the oil palm industry capped the
upside.


The composite index closed up 1.88 points at 1,365.28. Trading
volume was 1.92 billion shares, valued at 2.98 billion ringgit
(871 million dollars).


"The market has looked lethargic for much of the day," said Cheah
King Yoong, head of research at SJ Securities.


Late buying of blue-chips later pushed the key index to a new
high.


Cheah said the "uptrend bias" was sustainable on expectations
that major corporations will announce favourable first quarter
results.


"The market is also on a privatization frenzy at the moment,
which should help to support investors sentiment," he said.


At the close, gains by blue-chip banking stocks such as
Bumiputra-Commerce Holdings, Public Bank and Maybank helped push
the bourse to a new record.


Bumiputera-Commerce led gainers with a rise of 0.60 ringgit to
12.00.


BANGKOK: Closed.


JAKARTA: Share prices closed 0.18 percent higher with sentiment
lifted by Wall Street's continued gains and hopes that Bank
Indonesia may cut its benchmark rate this week.


Dealers said the cabinet reshuffle announced by President Susilo
Bambang Yudhoyono had little impact on the market while Bank
Indonesia will hold its board meeting on Tuesday.


The composite index ended up 3.673 points at 2,037.041 on volume
of 4.9 billion shares valued at 4.14 trillion rupiah (461,28
million dollars).


Samuel Sekuritas analyst Christine Salim said market sentiment
was positive overall although the upside was limited.


"Some investors chose to realize profits after a firm opening and
following the recent strong rally... and ahead of tomorrow's Bank
Indonesia board meeting on interest rates," she said.


She added that the cabinet reshuffle was neutral to the market as
there were no changes in key economic ministerial posts.


Yudhoyono announced a cabinet reshuffle in the afternoon,
dismissing four ministers and the attorney general, shifting two
others and bringing in five new faces.


The only change that drew some interest in the market was the
replacement of state enterprises minister Sugiharto with the
current communication and information minister Sofyan Djalil.


Astra International closed up 150 rupiah to 15,850.


MANILA: Share prices closed 1.57 percent higher, extending gains
in line with regional markets after another record breaking Wall
Street performance Friday.


The composite index finished up 51.41 points at 3,329.89.
Turnover was 3.12 billion shares worth 4.89 billion pesos (103.21
million dollars).


"Investors saw bargain-hunting opportunities following last
week's consolidation, especially in companies that are expected
to do well this year based on the first-quarter results that are
trickling in," said Astro del Castillo of First Grade Holdings.


However, he said that with only seven days to go before the May
14 mid-term congressional elections, investors might be tempted
to lock in profits quickly.


Bank of the Philippine Islands jumped 4.50 pesos to 68.50.


WELLINGTON: Share prices closed little changed, retreating after
hitting a record intra-day high as regional markets followed Wall
Street's strong lead.


The NZX-50 gross index slipped 3.73 points to 4,202.58 on
turnover worth 79.9 million dollars (58.9 million US). Rises
outnumbered falls 58 to 47.


Earlier in the session, the index reached a record high of
4,223.28 before pulling back.


Auckland International Airport soared to a high amid reports the
company was the target of a bid but the company said it had
received no approaches, pushing the share price lower.


Auckland Airport has been trading at record highs recently,
gaining about 16 percent in the past fortnight. The shares closed
up three cents at 2.69 dollars after hitting a high of 2.82.


Market leader Telecom shed eight cents to 4.80 dollars amid
continuing uncertainty about its future regulatory environment as
the government tries to boost competition.


"It's pretty hard to make a definitive case about which way to
jump at the moment," David Price of Forsyth Barr said.


"There's too many possible outcomes for what could happen and
there's a lot of vested interests ... being pushed left, right,
and centre."


MUMBAI: Share prices closed 0.39 percent lower, shedding early
gains as investors locked-in gains.


Dealers said the investors showed caution because of a
strengthening rupee which reduces dollar-denominated earnings for
software firms and other exporters.


The Mumbai 30-share Sensex index fell 55.02 points to 13,879.25.


"The markets are showing signs of being stretched and there is a
further correction expected," said a dealer with brokerage
Jamnadas Morarjee.

