

A prominent Iranian professor has been sacked for offending a
fully veiled woman during class amid mounting protests at a
prestigious Iranian university over insults to Islam, the press
reported Monday.


The reports said that Nureddin Zarrinkelk, a professor of fine
art known as the father of Iranian animation, "insulted" the
female student at Tehran University by questioning why she wore
the full Islamic chador covering.


The incident then sparked more protests at another Tehran
university, Amir Kabir, that has already been the scene of
demonstrations related to the publication of caricatures deemed
offensive to Islam.


"The father of Iranian animation was expelled from university and
cannot teach in any university because of his insult towards the
hijab of a university student," the reformist Etemad daily
reported.


It quoted Science Minister Mohammad-Mehdi Zahedi as saying that
Zarrinkelk was expelled from Tehran University for "insulting the
Islamic hijab" and has been banned from teaching in any
university.


According to the Etemad reports, the incident was sparked during
a classroom discussion over an image of a bald angel drawn by a
student when the professor asked the woman if she wore the full
veil because she herself was bald.


The ultra-conservative daily Hezbollah published a picture of a
demonstration at Amir Kabir Sunday over the incident, fuming
against "the shameless professor who has insulted the dignity of
a covered woman."


The reformist Aftab Yazd said that students from several
universities assembled for the protests, bearing banners that
urged Zahedi to act against such actions or resign.


These protests appeared to take place alongside the latest
demonstrations at Amir Kabir against the caricatures that were
published in publications apparently belonging to the student
reformist movement.


The reformist students have said the images were planted as a
plot against their knowledge but this has not prevented the
arrest of two editors accused of insulting Islam.


The hardline Kayhan daily said that hundreds of students from all
over the country converged on Amir Kabir on Sunday to continue
their protests against the images in the newspapers


It was not clear exactly what the reportedly offensive material
contained.

