

Palestinian leaders said on Monday that they hoped that France's
traditional support for their cause would continue after the
presidential election victory of right-winger Nicolas Sarkozy.


Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas "congratulated Mr Sarkozy on
his election to the presidency and expressed to him his hope that
France will continue its support for the Palestinian people and
their rights," his spokesman Nabil Abu Rudeina told AFP.


He also expressed hope that Sarkozy would "work toward lifting
the siege... and he would support the peace process."


He was referring to a freeze on direct aid to the Palestinian
government imposed by the West after the Islamist Hamas movement,
considered a terror group by the European Union and the United
States, formed a cabinet alone in March 2006.


The Islamists formed a coalition with Abbas's secular Fatah party
on March 17 in the hope of securing an end to the aid freeze but
the European Union and the United States have so far refused to
resume aid, saying the government must first renounce violence
and recognise Israel and past peace deals.


Hamas, which came to power after winning parliamentary elections
in January 2006, said that it would respect the choice of French
voters.


"The French elections are an internal matter," Hamas spokesman
Fawzi Barhum told AFP. "The French people have chosen and we
respect this choice.


"The position of France towards the Palestinian people, their
cause and that of Arabs has always been good, from Francois
Mitterand to Jacques Chirac," he said, referring to the two
presidents who preceded Sarkozy.


"We hope that this change will lead to cooperation with the
national unity government and that Sarkozy will contribute to
lifting the siege against the Palestinian people and support
their legitimate rights," he said.


Earlier, Israeli officials and newspapers welcomed Sarkozy's
election, hailing him as a friend of the Jewish state.

