

Inergy Automotive Systems (IAS), the Franco-Belgian specialist in
automotive fuel systems, announced on Monday "ambitious projects"
in the high-potential markets of China, India and Russia.


Co-owner Belgian chemicals group Solvay announced that IAS has
just launched a plant construction project at Wuhan in the Hubei
province of central China.


"The facility will go on stream next year to deliver fuel systems
to production plants operated by Nissan and General Motors in
China," Solvay said in a statement.


Inergy Automotive Systems, in which Solvay and French group
Plastic Omnium each have a 50 percent stake, will also be seeking
new opportunities on the strongly growing Chinese market.


According to the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers
(CAAM), sales of private cars rose by 37 percent last year in
China to 3.8 million vehicles.


IAS "is also in the process of negotiating the purchase of a site
between Moscow and Nijni Novgorod, with a view to building a new
facility to supply the fuel system for the Logans produced by
Renault/Dacia in Russia," said Solvay.


The plant is expected to start shipping from next year.


IAS also plans to build on this first venture in Russia to
develop new business with other manufacturers operating in the
country.


The Paris-based company has also set up a company in India that
"will ultimately operate at a location between Bangalore and
Chennai in the South-East".


It will produce the fuel system for a low-cost model that a
Japanese auto maker is planning to develop to target the emerging
countries, and that is slated for release in 2010, said Solvay.


The new production plants will extend the network already
operated by Inergy Automotive Systems in Korea, Japan and
Thailand, as well as Poland, Slovakia and Romania to satisfy the
strong automotive demand in Asia and Eastern Europe.


Inergy Automotive Systems supplies complete plastic fuel systems
and fuel storage technologies for petrol, diesel and biofuels.

