

The Philippine army plans to transform an insurgency-wracked
island into the country's second largest pineapple producing
region in an effort to end decades of bloodshed.


The military is spearheading the plan in cooperation with the
local governments on the southern island of Jolo, Lieutenant
General Romeo Tolentino said on Monday.


Under the plane, Jolo, 950 kilometres (590 miles) south of
Manila, would be transformed into a major producer of pineapples
to provide livelihoods to impoverished Muslims who have lived
under the shadow of rebel violence for decades.


The general said the army was negotiating an agreement with
private agriculture firms to plant three towns on Jolo island
with some 100,000 pineapples.


"Visit Jolo in a few years' time and I assure you the traces of
blood and armed struggle that once haunted the whole island will
have vanished," Tolentino said.


At 1,600 square kilometres (640 square miles), Jolo is more than
twice the size of Singapore.


Its mineral-rich volcanic soil has been identified as good for
agriculture, but decades of bloody insurgency have left it one of
the country's poorest areas.


Abu Sayyaf and Jemaah Islamiyah (JI) militants also operate in
the area and are on the run from a massive manhunt involving some
7,000 troops.


Both are on the US government's list of foreign terrorist
organisations and have been blamed for Southeast Asia's worst
attacks in recent years.


Small numbers of US troops have been assisting the Filipino
forces in the fight, with Jolo identified as an important
regional anti-terrorism showcase.

