

The trial of Syrian dissidents Michel Kilo and Mahmud Issa, under
arrest since May 2006, was postponed until May 13 after a hearing
Monday attended by international observers, a lawyer said.


The court is likely to deliver its verdict on that day, said
Abdel Rahim Ghmaza of the National Organisation for Human Rights
in Syria.


"Mr Kilo presented his defence in the presence of foreign
diplomats and of Maha Yussef and Taher Abul Nasr, two Egyptian
activists of the International Committee for the Defence of Mr
Kilo and his friends," Ghmaza said.


The two Syrians were formally charged on March 27 with spreading
false information, sowing discord and "weakening national
sentiment."


Issa has been separately accused of exposing Syria to the threat
of attack.


The charges against the men carry a possible jail term of at
least three years.


Kilo, who is Syria's leading opposition figure, was brought
before a military court on March 6 along with communist activist
Issa on a charge of "inciting prisoners to support the Beirut-
Damascus declaration".


The petition, which both men have signed, calls for an overhaul
of ties between the two states and for Syrian recognition of the
independence of Lebanon, where Damascus was the major powerbroker
for three decades until 2005.


In the criminal case, they have been accused of provoking
religious and racial dissent as well as insulting official
institutions, with the two trials running in parallel.


Kilo and Issa, who were rounded up with eight other opposition
figures, lost appeals in December for charges of publishing false
information and provoking dissent to be dropped.


One of the eight, human rights activist Anwar Bunni, who is a
lawyer, was last month sentenced to five years in prison for
"spreading false information" damaging to the country, his lawyer
said.


The verdict has been condemned by rights groups.

