

An influential former Hong Kong minister warned Monday that plans
to scrap the city's public broadcaster would send a worrying
message for press freedom in the Chinese territory.


A government panel has proposed dismantling Radio Television Hong
Kong, which exercises a high degree of editorial independence,
and creating a new public broadcaster.


"It would paint a very bad image of Hong Kong overseas," Alan
Lee, a former member of the Executive Council, or cabinet, told
reporters.


"The message would be clear and simple -- that the government
wants to control the media in Hong Kong," said Lee, who is a
local deputy to China's parliament and one of the founders of the
powerful business-backed Liberal Party.


Hong Kong has been a largely autonomous territory of China since
Britain handed control of its former colony back to Beijing in
1997. As such, it enjoys greater freedom of speech and press than
the rest of China.


RTHK was created in 1928 and operates three Chinese radio
channels and one English channel and feeds television items to
local commercial stations.


The proposal to get rid it has raised concerns that the Beijing-
backed administration was tightening the clamp on freedom of
speech.


It deepened growing fears that China was working behind the
scenes to mute the city's often rowdy and outspoken media.


Lee said scrapping RTHK would spell political suicide for the
city's China- backed political leader Donald Tsang.


"He would have a public uproar on his hands," said Lee, who was
the target of efforts to gag dissident broadcasts when he
received threats from "Chinese figures" over anti-Beijing views
he broadcast on a radio talk show.


"Donald relies on huge public support to keep him in power, but
if he was to shut down RTHK -- which has been serving Hong Kong
people for more than 80 years -- he will lose that support," Lee
said.

