

Japan's highest court on Tuesday sided with Beijing over Taiwan
in a lengthy wrangle over a student dormitory that turned the
spotlight on Tokyo's policy toward China.


Taiwan had won previous lawsuits saying it owned the dormitory,
which has housed Chinese students in the western city of Kyoto
since World War II.


But Japan's Supreme Court overturned lower court rulings Tuesday,
saying Taipei had lost its right to file a claim as the
representative of China after Tokyo decided in 1972 to recognise
Beijing instead.


China considers Taiwan, where defeated Nationalists fled in 1949
after Mao Zedong's communists triumphed in the mainland's civil
war, to be a province awaiting reunification, by force if
necessary.


It strongly protests any move that could imply recognition of
Taiwan as an independent country.


Taiwan bought the five-storey building in Kyoto in 1950 at a time
when it was recognised as China's legitimate government by Tokyo.


In 1967, during the height of China's Cultural Revolution, Taiwan
filed a lawsuit seeking to evict pro-Beijing students.


But the case was still unresolved when Tokyo established
relations a few years later with Beijing and dropped its
recognition of Taipei.


An initial ruling supported the pro-Beijing students, saying the
dormitory legally belonged to communist China. But two subsequent
court rulings backed Taiwan, saying it still existed even if it
does not enjoy Japan's recognition.


The Japanese government has supported the pro-Beijing students
due to its policy of recognising only one China.


With the Supreme Court's ruling effectively meaning Taiwan did
not have the right to be the plaintiff, the case was sent back to
a Kyoto district court for re-examination.


The Taiwanese and Chinese missions in Tokyo and the Japanese
government all declined to comment.

