

German legend Franz Beckenbauer insisted on Tuesday Germany are
the best football side in Europe after describing last Saturday's
2-1 win over the Czech Republic last Saturday as a "landmark"
result.


In his weekly column in German newspaper Bild, Beckenbauer said
the victory in Prague cements Germany's status as European No. 1
and takes them a step closer to qualification for Euro 2008 in
Switzerland and Austria next summer.


"I'll dare to say it. At the moment we are the No 1 team in
Europe," wrote Beckenbauer after German coach Joachim Loew
claimed his seventh win in eight games since taking over from
Jurgen Klinsmann after last year's World Cup.


"We took the game to the Czechs and some of our play looked like
a training video.


"On top of the momentum Jurgen Klinsmann built, the team are now
showing signs of telepathic understanding and are functioning
like a well-drilled unit."


It's a far cry from just a year ago when the 61-year-old, who won
103 caps over 12 years, was highly critical after Germany were
hammered 4-1 by Italy in Florence.


Beckenbauer questioned the methods of then-coach Klinsmann and
his deputy Loew which sparked huge debate in Germany.


But after the win in Prague, thanks to two goals from Schalke O4
striker Kevin Kuranyi, Beckenbauer described Loew's promotion to
the head coach as a "piece of luck".


Loew, 47, enjoyed limited success in charge of VfB Stuttgart,
Austria Vienna and Tyrol FC Innsbruck before his promotion, but
has got Germany playing some attractive football.


"Obviously he has strong powers of persuasion amongst the squad,"
judged Beckenbauer.

