

A tussle is underway over a popular Malaysian television talent
show after Islamic scholars called for the postponement of its
next broadcast, which falls on the Prophet Mohammed's birthday, a
report said Tuesday.


The influential muftis have called on private cable operator
Astro to delay its Akademi Fantasia programme this Saturday,
saying it would be disrespectful as Muslims worldwide celebrate
the Prophet's birthday.


"Have respect for Prophet Mohammed's birthday. Muslims will be
celebrating that day with readings of the Koran and various
religious programmes," the mufti of northern Perak state,
Harussani Zakaria, was quoted as saying by the New Straits Times.


"We do not want that day to be marred by the concert. Astro can
always have it on some other day," he said.


Akademi Fantasia, which has legions of loyal fans, is a spin-off
from a Mexican talent show and features contestants performing in
a weekly Saturday concert broadcast live.


Astro Ria, the channel which airs the show, has reportedly
refused to reschedule the show, saying the preparations have
already been made.


The newspaper said Malaysia's Islamic Development Department had
called on the station to be more sensitive, while another mufti,
calling for a postponement, also questioned the show's worth.


"This programme does not help in any way to build the minds of
our youngsters or their identities," northern Perlis state's
mufti, Asri Zainul Abidin, was quoted as saying.


The criticism follows a year-long ban imposed by state radio and
television on a well-known Malaysian actress earlier this month
after she compared gossip about one of her relationships to the
Prophet Mohammed's wife.


Her comments sparked outrage from viewers and attracted the
attention of the Islamic authorities.


A number of media outlets in the Muslim majority country have
also been punished in the past year for content deemed insulting
to Islam.

