

Controversial changes to Egypt's constitution were approved by
three-quarters of voters, according to official results of a
referendum announced on Tuesday.


The percentage of those who said yes in Monday's vote was 75.9
percent, the official MENA news agency quoted Justice Minister
Mamduh Marei as saying.


The minister said turnout stood at 27.1 percent but opposition
and independent rights groups said it did not reach the 10
percent mark.


Egyptians were voting on amendments pushed through by President
Hosni Mubarak to 34 articles of the constitution which the
opposition has warned will curb basic freedoms.


Many simply remove references to socialism but others grant the
authorities to right to arrest terrorism suspects without
warrants and refer them to military courts.


They also reduce judicial oversight of elections and ban
political activity based on religion, in a move seen as a bid to
precent further gains by the main opposition group the Muslim
Brotherhood.


The referendum was marked by mass abstentions and voter
disillusionment, after a united opposition front called for a
boycott, arguing the result was foregone conclusion and voting
would be pointless.


Some independent rights groups reported irregularities in
Monday's ballot.


The previous referendum in Egypt was held in May 2005 when
Mubarak proposed a constitutional amendment that paved the way
for the country's first pluralist presidential election.


Turnout was put officially at 53 percent but experts and
observers said it barely exceeded three percent.

