

Deposed Philippine president Joseph Estrada used a furlough from
detention Tuesday to publicly castigate his successor, President
Gloria Arroyo, before a crowd of cheering supporters.


Estrada, who is under house arrest while being tried on graft
charges, was let out of detention to receive an award for "most
outstanding citizen" from his family bailiwick of San Juan in
Manila, and to visit his 102-year-old mother.


But at the award ceremonies, Estrada attacked Arroyo's record,
telling the crowd of supporters, "Your country is suffering many
hardships and difficulties."


"It has been proclaimed the most corrupt country in Asia. We have
received international attention not because of our progress and
advances but because of our extrajudicial killings," he said,
raising recent international criticism of the Arroyo
administration.


Without mentioning Arroyo by name, Estrada alleged her
administration cheated in elections to stay in power and tried to
coerce him into fleeing the country.


Estrada also never mentioned the charges against him except to
say that "I never said I was a saint. I have committed some
mistakes in my long career but I can assure you, corruption was
not one of them."


The former action movie star was ousted by a military-backed
uprising in 2001 amid a massive graft scandal. He is now being
tried for allegedly plundering a fortune of some 80 million
dollars during his 30 months in office.


Despite this, he remains hugely popular with the masses and is
the key backer of the opposition slate running against Arroyo's
candidates in congressional and local elections in May.

