

Australian share prices closed 0.44 percent lower Tuesday amid
fears that weakness in the US housing market will spread to the
wider economy, dealers said.


They said the latest US new home sales data disappointed and
sparked fresh concerns that the problems in the US housing market
are not going to go away anytime soon, raising fresh questions
about the outlook for the economy.


However, the local market remains strong on a fundamental basis
and so should continue to do well.


The benchmark SP/ASX 200 lost 26.5 points at 5,964.2 while the
broader All Ordinaries index fell 18.2 points to 5,952.3.


Turnover was 1.50 billion shares worth 5.4 billion dollars (4.4
billion US), with rises outnumbering falls 613 to 610 and 342
stocks unchanged.


Bell Potter Securities private client advisor Stuart Smith said
the market turning down was expected after a healthy rise on
Monday.


"We've seen a bit of selling but nothing to be of much concern,"
Smith said.


"You can see the overall bullish tone by the June futures which
are at a healthy premium to the physical market."


He said the flow of funds from pensions is expected to pick up in
the second quarter, lending support to the market as people take
advantage of retirement savings tax incentives before the end of
the Australian fiscal year on June 30.


Dealers said US-focused building groups Rinker and James Hardie
retreated as a significant downturn in the US housing market
would impact their earnings.


Rinker lost 0.26 dollars at 17.92 dollars and James Hardie shed
0.28 to 8.35.


Banks were largely lower due to continued expectations of an
interest rate hike in Australia over the coming months, while
resources were mixed and energy stocks rose on the buoyant oil
price.


National Australia Bank shed 0.40 to 40.45, Commonwealth Bank
dropped 0.21 to 50.25, Westpac was down 0.24 at 26.01 but ANZ
added 0.04 to 29.58.


BHP Billiton rose 0.24 to 29.80 while Rio Tinto was up 0.80 at
79.20.


Woodside climbed 0.80 to 39.03, Santos added 0.02 to 9.95 while
Oil Search was steady at 3.62.


Coles lost 0.21 to 15.94, Woolworths fell 0.10 to 27.11 and David
Jones shed 0.08 to 4.72.


Qantas rose 0.06 to 5.15, Toll Holdings gained 0.03 to 20.50
while Virgin Blue slipped 0.01 to 2.66.

