

The Australian Rugby Union says it has not ruled out New Zealand
coach Robbie Deans as the next Wallabies coach -- even though he
is a foreigner.


Incumbent Australian coach John Connolly has indicated he intends
to retire from the job after the World Cup in France in October,
and the ARU are making contingency plans.


Deans, who comes off contract in June, has been coveted as coach
in South Africa and Europe after steering the Canterbury
Crusaders to four Super 14 provincial titles and six finals in
the last seven seasons.


While a home-grown coach might be a preferred option, ARU general
manager Pat Wilson said Tuesday the criteria for the Wallaby
coaching job wouldn't preclude a foreigner from the position.


"The key criteria will be the best possible candidate, that's our
priority objective," Wilson said. "He (Deans) falls within that
criteria."


Deans has not ruled out such a possibility and said he is keeping
his options open.


"You don't rule anything out," Deans said Tuesday ahead of the
Crusaders' Super 14 match with the NSW Waratahs in Sydney this
weekend.


"You've got your good footballers. Who knows, I don't know. To be
honest, I'm not thinking beyond the challenges I've got here,
which I really continue to enjoy.


"You've got good coaches over there. Those decisions are made by
people and they will make those decisions, and then those of us
who are further down the food chain will respond to them."


Auckland Blues' Australian coach David Nucifora and Deans are
likely to be in demand with a dearth of quality local candidates
for the Wallaby job.


"We're just looking at all the elements of timing and we'll be
finalising those sorts of discussions over the coming week," said
Wilson, who wouldn't put a time frame on any appointment.


"While there may be timing issues, we want the Wallabies fully
focused without distractions on the World Cup process, so it will
depend on who we list as being candidates to some extent," he
said.

