

ASEAN, Cambodia and the World Health Organisation will conduct a
two-day exercise next week to test Asia's ability to stem a bird
flu pandemic, the UN health agency said here Tuesday.


The exercise involves a mock scenario in which a strain of bird
flu with the potential for a human pandemic is discovered in
Cambodia.


Tamiflu and protective equipment such as goggles and masks have
to be swiftly dispatched from a stockpile managed by a private
contractor in Singapore to Cambodia.


The exercise will be run from the WHO Western Pacific office in
Manila and would be the first-ever test of the region's
capability to "respond rapidly to signs of a pandemic and to
snuff it out," the WHO said in a statement.


The drill will be a test of rapid containment, involving risk
assessment, communications, and decision-making. No supplies will
actually be moved, it added.


The WHO says there have been 281 cases of bird flu infection
among humans and 169 deaths worldwide, mostly in Southeast Asia.


Scientists fear the H5N1 bird flu strain could mutate into a form
easily spread among humans, leading to a global pandemic with the
potential to kill millions.


The Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) and Japan
would also take part in the WHO-led exercise.


Tokyo has provided ASEAN -- which groups Brunei, Cambodia,
Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, the Philippines, Singapore,
Thailand and Vietnam -- with half a million courses of Tamiflu,
plus a large quantity of personal protective equipment, all of it
stockpiled in Singapore.


During the exercise, WHO regional director Shigeru Omi would
place a call to ASEAN to recommend the release of some of the
Tamiflu supplies and protective equipment to the outbreak zone.


The exercise is expected to yield practical information for all
parties about the efficiency of procedures, discover gaps in
planning and identify opportunities for efficient rapid
containment, the WHO said.

