

Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao will make a three-day visit to Japan
from April 11, the first visit by a Chinese leader to Tokyo since
2000, officials said Tuesday.


China and Japan have been working to improve relations which have
been badly strained in recent years over history issues and
energy disputes.


During his stay in Japan, Wen will meet with Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe and Emperor Akihito and Empress Michiko, Japan's
foreign ministry said in a statement.


"The Japanese government cordially welcomes the visit as marking
the deepening of friendly ties," it said.


Both countries had earlier announced the visit without giving the
exact dates. Wen will be the first Chinese leader to visit since
then premier Zhu Rongji in 2000.


South Korea's Yonhap News agency, quoting an unnamed Chinese
source, said Wen had originally planned a longer trip but cut it
short due to Abe's controversial remarks on World War II sex
slaves.


Japanese officials have declined comment on that report.


Abe earlier this month denied that Japanese soldiers directly
coerced so-called "comfort women" into army brothels.


His comments caused an uproar, in particular in the United States
and South Korea.


Abe, trying to contain the damage, on Monday renewed Japan's
apology to comfort women.


Abe visited China in October just after taking office in a bid to
repair relations.


China had refused summits with Abe's predecessor Junichiro
Koizumi due to his visits to a war shrine seen by China as symbol
of wartime atrocities.


"If Prime Minister Abe's visit to China... can be described as an
ice breaker, then I hope my visit to Japan will be an ice
thawer," Wen said this month.

