

Japanese share prices closed down 0.90 percent on Tuesday as
investors locked in recent gains amid jitters over the US housing
sector and an upcoming raft of domestic economic data, dealers
said.


They said that the benchmark Nikkei index ended a five-day
winning streak after new home sales in the world's largest
economy hit a near seven-year low.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
fell 156.91 points to 17,365.05.


The TOPIX index of all issues on the Tokyo Stock Exchange's first
section eased 17.51 points or 1.01 percent to 1,723.86.


Decliners outpaced gainers 1,419 to 233, with 58 stocks flat.


Volume rose to 1.88 billion shares from 1.53 billion on Monday.


"Investors lacked trading incentives after the mixed performance
on the US stock market," said Hideo Mizutani, chief strategist at
Sieg Securities.


"Concerns over the housing market in the US still linger,
including the sub- prime mortgage market," Mizutani added.


A surprise drop in new home sales for February in the US released
overnight triggered further concerns that economic growth is
slowing more than expected.


Ryuta Otsuka, a strategist at Toyo Securities, said the benchmark
Nikkei index hovered around the 17,500 points level as investors
sat on the sidelines ahead of the release of key economic data in
Japan and the US.


On Friday, Japan will announce its consumer price index,
unemployment and industrial production figures for last month.
The Bank of Japan will release its closely watched Tankan
business sentiment survey on Monday.


Nissan Motor lost 32 yen or 2.4 percent to 1,297 after the
automaker said it will halve its group domestic sales workforce
by the end of 2010 in a bid to restructure its Japan sales
operations.


Among other auto makers, Toyota Motor lost 90 yen or 1.1 percent
to 7,730, Mazda Motor was down eight yen or 1.2 percent to 657
and Suzuki Motor dropped 70 yen or 2.2 percent to 3,090.


Nippon Steel was up 10 yen or 1.2 percent at 873 after the Nikkei
newspaper reported that the company was negotiating with Tata
Steel of India about joint production there of steel sheet for
use in the automotive industry.


Oil stocks were higher after crude prices rose overnight
following the UN Security Council's vote for fresh sanctions on
Iran, dealers said.


Inpex Holdings was 25,000 yen or 2.6 percent higher at 972,000
and Showa Shell rose four yen or 0.3 percent to 1,401.


On the foreign exchange market, the dollar was steady at 118.09
yen in Tokyo afternoon trade, unchanged from in New York late on
Monday.


The euro firmed to 1.3328 dollars from 1.3300 but fell to 157.38
yen from 157.44.

