

Taiwan Tuesday unveiled an upgraded home-made fighter jet which
President Chen Shui-bian said demonstrated the island's
determination to defend itself against rival China.


A prototype of the sleek twin-seater fighter, an improved version
of the Ching- Kuo Indigenous Defence Fighter IDF-II, scrambled
for take-off at the Chingchuankang airbase in central Taiwan.


Hundreds of guests and engineers from the government-owned
aircraft maker Aerospace Industrial Development Corporation
(AIDC) applauded as the fighter looped and banked to show off its
maneuvering capability.


"The success is not only the latest achievement of our defence
industry, but it also demonstrates Taiwan's determination and
efforts to defend ourselves," Chen said at the end of the new
fighter's 10-minute test flight.


Chen named the new jet "Hsung Ying", or Goshawk -- an indigenous
bird renowned for the speed of its attacks on prey.


The AIDC unveiled the prototype of an upgraded single-seated
upgrade late last year.


Costing the military seven billion Taiwan dollars (212.12 million
US) in a project launched in 2001, the Goshawk had increased its
endurance time with the installation of two additional fuel
tanks, the AIDC said.


The new fighter has upgraded mission computers and an advanced
fire control radar system, it said, adding service entry was
scheduled for 2010 if further development was successful.


Taiwan produced 130 IDFs during the 1980s to replace its ageing
Lockheed F-104s and Northrop F-5s.


China has repeatedly threatened to invade Taiwan should the
island declare formal independence, prompting Taipei to develop
and buy advanced weaponry.


But most arms exporting countries have been reluctant to sell
Taiwan sophisticated weapons, to avoid irking Beijing.


The United States is the major arms supplier to the island,
providing it with defensive weapons in accordance with its Taiwan
Relations Act.

