

World oil prices dipped on Tuesday after a surge towards 65
dollars a barrel in London amid political tensions over Iran.


Earlier on Tuesday the price of Brent North Sea crude for May
delivery had reached 64.64 dollars a barrel, the highest level
since December 4 last year.


In later electronic trading, it stood at 64.19 dollars a barrel,
down 22 cents.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, fell 29 cents to 62.62 dollars in electronic
deals.


Industry experts say Iran could disrupt its oil exports should
tensions surrounding the Islamic Republic's nuclear programme
escalate.


The world's fourth-biggest producer of oil has already said it
will restrict its cooperation with the UN nuclear watchdog in
retaliation for fresh Security Council sanctions over its
disputed atomic plan.


The United Nations Security Council voted unanimously Saturday to
impose the sanctions in a bid to pressure Iran into freezing its
uranium enrichment programme.


Iran's central bank governor Ebrahim Sheibany on Tuesday
described the sanctions as only "symbolic" and said they would
not affect the country's economy.


The imposition of sanctions followed word on Friday that Iran had
seized 15 British naval personnel in the Gulf, a move which has
also upset the oil market.


British Prime Minister Tony Blair warned Iran on Tuesday that
efforts to secure the release of the sailors would enter a
"different phase" if diplomatic efforts failed.


Britain has sought to keep up pressure on Iran which has rejected
growing international calls for their release. Iran says they had
entered its territorial waters illegally and the BBC, citing
sources, said they were now being held in Tehran, where they were
being interrogated by the Revolutionary Guards.

