

British Prime Minister Tony Blair warned Iran on Tuesday that the
standoff over the capture of 15 sailors would enter a "different
phase" if diplomatic efforts to secure their release failed.


Blair said all efforts were focused on securing their swift
return through diplomacy, but warned Britain could not allow its
service personnel to be seized with "no justification whatever."


"What we are trying to do at the moment is to pursue this through
the diplomatic channels and make the Iranian government
understand these people have to be released," he told GMTV
television.


"I hope we manage to get them to realise they have to release
them. If not, then this will move into a different phase.


"At the moment, what we are trying to do is to make sure that
that diplomatic initiative works," he said, adding: "There is
absolutely no justification whatever for holding them."


Britain says the personnel -- eight sailors and seven marines --
were conducting "routine" anti-smuggling duties in Iraqi waters
when they were seized at gunpoint in the Shatt al-Arab waterway
in the north of the Gulf Friday.


"Our first concern is for their welfare and to get them released
as quickly as possible," Blair said, adding that that there were
no new details on the sailors' situation.


Pressed on what a "different phase" might involve, Blair said:
"Well, we will just have to see.


"But what they should understand is that we cannot have a
situation where our servicemen and women are seized when actually
they are in Iraqi waters under a UN mandate, patrolling perfectly
rightly and in accordance with that mandate, and then effectively
captured and taken to Iran.


"The most important thing is their welfare, I am trying to get
this resolved in as diplomatic and sensible a way as possible,"
he said.

