

The makers of Ribena pleaded guilty Tuesday to misleading the New
Zealand public about the drink's health benefits after being
exposed by two teenage girls in a school science experiment.


GlaxoSmithKline's embarrassment stemmed from a school science
project done by Anna Devathasan and Jenny Suo at an Auckland high
school three years ago.


Their findings were initially ignored by the company but came to
the attention of the Commerce Commission, a business watchdog,
which brough the court action.


The multinational firm was fined 217,500 dollars (156,100 US) in
the Auckland District Court for breaching fair trading laws with
claims about the vitamin C content of the popular blackcurrant
drink.


It was also ordered to run advertisements detailing the true
contents of the drink sold in 20 countries worldwide.


Earlier the company admitted in court that its cartoned ready to
drink Ribena had no detectable Vitamin C, despite claims it
contained seven milligrams of the vitamin per 100 millilitres.


The company also admitted it may have misled customers in
advertisements saying the blackcurrants in Ribena syrup had four
times the vitamin C of oranges.


Devathasan and Suo -- then aged 14 -- conducted tests showing
Ribena contained much lower levels of vitamin C than other fruit
juice-based drinks.


The girls said when they were ignored when they approached the
company, but a television consumer rights show later picked up
the story and brought it to the attention of the Commerce
Commission.


Devathasan said Tuesday the pair were overwhelmed that their
simple experiment had led to a court conviction.


"We're just blown away that anything we could have started could
have blown up to something so huge," she told Radio New Zealand.


"Considering we were only 14 at the time, it's been a huge day."

