

Aaron Peirsol joined in on America's world record frenzy by
breaking his own record to capture his third consecutive world
100-metre backstroke crown here Tuesday.


The Olympic and world champion became the first man to go under
53 seconds for the event with a new best of 52.98secs to shatter
the world record for the third time since the 2004 Athens
Olympics.


Peirsol, swimming in lane three, overhauled early leader Liam
Tancock of Britain to win from teammate Ryan Lochte (53.50) and
Tancock (53.61).


"I think it's the most impressive American team I've ever been
on," Peirsol said.


"Michael Phelps was incredible, Natalie Coughlin did well, so I
had to do something too."


"I had more competition out there than I have had in the past.
I'm very humbled to be swimming with them."


Lochte, who set a championship record in Monday's semi-finals,
said he was was thanked by Peirsol for pushing him to the world
record.


"It's pretty amazing. Every time someone breaks a world record
it's amazing," Lochte said


"As soon as we saw Michael's first one in the 200m freestyle,
we're all really happy. We have to take tonight and carry it
through the meet.


"When I finished Aaron said 'thanks'. We help each other as much
as we can."


American swimmers have held the 100m backstroke world record
since 1988 in dominating the event.


Peirsol's six-year winning streak in his other 200m backstroke
event is second only to Australian Grant Hackett's 10-year reign
in the 1500m freestyle,


Peirsol is a triple Olympic gold medallist and is a raging
favorite to add more gold at his third Games in Beijing next
year.

