

US tycoons George Gillett and Tom Hicks are on the verge of
owning one hundred percent of Liverpool football club, a
statement to the London Stock Exchange revealed on Tuesday.


The pair's takeover vehicle, Kop Football Limited, has reached an
agreement to buy 98.6 percent of the club's shares. Under London
Stock Exchange rules the American businessmen are entitled to
demand the sale of the outstanding 1.4 percent of shares.


Kop Football Limited said it now intends to seek to re-register
Liverpool as a private limited company.


Earlier this month Hicks and Gillett had gained unconditional
control of the club by passing the 80 percent threshold, after
having a takeover bid worth 438 million pounds (646 million
euros, 862 million dollars) accepted by the Liverpool board.


"Further to the offer made on 19 February 2007 by Kop to acquire
the entire issued share capital of Liverpool and the announcement
on 13 March 2007 that all conditions relating to the offer had
been ... declared unconditional in all respects, Kop announces
that the offer closed" on Monday, the statement said.


Liverpool is the third Premiership club to fall into US hands
during the past two years after Manchester United was bought by
the Glazer family and Aston Villa by tycoon Randy Lerner.


A report published Monday suggested that US entrepreneur Stan
Kroenke was approached by ITV about buying the British
broadcaster's 9.9-percent stake in Premiership outfit Arsenal.


Premiership clubs are being bought at a time when income of each
of the league's 20 clubs is set to rise by an average of more
than ten million pounds per year following a record-busting
overseas television rights deal.


Booming demand from Asia and the Middle East has allowed the
league to tie up contracts worth 625 million pounds for
broadcasting rights for the next three years, boosting overall
media income to a total of 2.725 billion pounds, 60 percent above
current income levels.

