

The Bank of Thailand on Tuesday dismissed rumours that it was
planning to peg the baht to the dollar, insisting that it would
not turn back to the fixed rate regime used before 1997 financial
crisis.


Rumours of an exchange rate peg, a switch from the current
managed float system, sent the currency falling Monday, when it
closed at 35.04-5 after opening at 34.95-98.


The Thai baht stabilised at 35.05 Tuesday morning, dealers said.


Both Finance Minister Chalongphob Sussasangkarn and central bank
governor Tarisa Watanagase have ruled out the possibility of a
peg.


"Currently we are making no change whatsoever in our policy
regarding the exchange rate system," Tarisa told reporters.


"We have no plan to return to a fixed rate system or even to set
a band for daily baht movement," she added.


Analysts said the baht was softer after the central bank asked
commercial banks to adjust their foreign exchange positions --
resulting in banks buying dollars -- and to give daily reports on
their currency portfolio.


The Thai baht has risen to nine-year highs in recent weeks on
sustained speculation that the central bank would remove
controversial currency controls, which were introduced in
December.


The capital measures aimed at halting the baht's rise required 30
percent of any foreign investment inflows to Thailand to be held
by financial institutions for up to one year.


The measures caused a massive sell-off in mid-December in the
stock market, forcing the government to reverse some of the
rules. The resulting policy flip- flops have hurt confidence
among investors, who remain very cautious about Thai
policymaking.

