

China's Nanjing Automobile Group revived Britain's MG with its
first models of the historic marque rolling off the line at its
new multi-million dollar plant on Tuesday, a company official
said.


"Today we have started production of the MG7 series and the MGTF
sports car," Huang Ting, a marketing official for Nanjing, told
AFP.


Nanjing Auto, China's oldest car maker, bought the rights to the
historic cars from the bankrupt MG Rover Group, once makers of
the iconic Mini and Jaguar, in July 2005.


It acquired MG Rover's assembly lines, engine technology and many
of the firm's models, including the MGZR, MGZS and MGZT, for 53
million pounds (103 million dollars) in July 2005 after the
collapse of Britain's last independent carmaker.


The start of production Tuesday makes Nanjing Auto the latest
Chinese car company to unveil its own line in China after buying
a Western brand and technology.


Total investment in the project, based in the east Chinese city
of Nanjing, will be 2.82 billion yuan (360 million dollars), the
company said previously.


The revamped MG series will compete directly with Shanghai
Automotive Industry Corp (SAIC), which unveiled in October last
year its "Roewe 750", a line based on the Rover 75 model saloon.


Shanghai Auto bought the rights to MG Rover Group's 75 and Rover
25 in 2005 after it lost out to Nanjing in the bid for all of the
bankrupt British carmaker's models and engines.


Although most of MG Rover's machinery and equipment in the
British group's now defunct factories was shipped to China,
Nanjing Auto also has plans to build 15,000 cars at Britain's
Longbridge factory for the European market.


Last year Nanjing, which also has a joint venture with Italy's
Fiat, announced it would build the MG brand in Oklahoma in May
2008, which would make it the first Chinese automaker to build
cars in the United States.

