

Former Indonesian President BJ Habibie denied stoking unrest in
East Timor during testimony at a hearing here Tuesday seeking the
truth about bloody unrest in the territory in 1999, an official
said.


Habibie was in power when East Timor opted for independence from
Indonesia in a referendum marred by deadly violence and
widespread destruction.


Benjamin Mangkudilaga, the co-chairman of the hearing, said
Habibie had denied ordering the violence.


"Habibie said it was not his policy," Mangkudilaga said after the
three-hour, closed-door session.


The UN has said that militia gangs recruited and directed by
Indonesia's military killed about 1,400 people and destroyed much
of the infrastructure in the former Portuguese colony during
violence around the time of the poll.


Habibie's government agreed to the UN-administered referendum for
East Timor, which Indonesia annexed in 1976.


Nobel laureate Carlos Filipe Ximenes Belo, the former bishop of
East Timor's capital, Dili, testified publicly yesterday that
pro-Indonesian militia and Indonesian soldiers were involved in
much of the unrest.


The Indonesia-East Timor Truth and Friendship Commission is due
to hear from military officials later and expects to collect
testimony from 70 people overall.


An Indonesian rights court set up to try military officers and
officials for atrocities in East Timor was widely condemned as a
sham for failing to jail any Indonesians.


Impoverished East Timor is due to hold its first presidential
vote since independence, but there are fears new unrest could mar
the April 9 poll.

