

American Natalie Coughlin shattered her world record to hold off
French star Laure Manaudou and win the world 100-metres
backstroke title here on Tuesday.


Coughlin shaved 14-100ths of a second off her five-year world
record with 59.44 seconds to fend off the fast-finishing Manaudou
by 0.43secs to take gold.


Coughlin's record came straight after Michael Phelps shattered
Ian Thorpe's six- year-old 200m freestyle world record in
overpowering Dutch former Olympic champion Pieter van den
Hoogenband in the night's first final.


Manaudou broke a European record with her time of 59.87 to become
only the second swimmer to go under a minute in the women's
event.


It was Coughlin's first gold medal of the meet after she was run
down by Australians Libby Lenton and Jessicah Schipper in the
final of the 100m butterfly on Monday.


Coughlin, the Athens Olympic champion, swam the first 50m in
28.30secs and held a decisive break over the fast-finishing
Manaudou down the final lap.


Manaudou, who was almost 0.8secs behind at the halfway turn,
finished strongly and was taking ground off the American and was
only beaten by 0.43secs at the wall.


"It has been a goal of mine for five years now to break my best,
which is a world record. I felt really strong and confident,"
Coughlin said.


Coughlin said she was hurting inside the last 10m of the race but
knew what she needed to do to see off Manaudou.


"It hurt. I knew that was exactly how I needed to swim that race
to break the record and I did."


Coughlin last won world championship gold in the 100m backstroke
at Fukuoka in 2001.


Japan's Reiko Nakamura was third in the final in a Japanese
record 1:00.40, almost a second behind the winner.


"I thought if I broke the Japan national record I would win a
medal," Nakamura said.


"The Japanese national record was the barrier for me. Next I will
try to go under one minute. I am glad to make a new target."

