

The emergence of the Tamil Tigers as the world's first guerrilla
outfit with its own planes could be a threat to South Asian
security, Sri Lanka's president said Tuesday.


The rebels on Monday successfully flew over the island's main
military airbase and escaped unscathed after dropping several
bombs.


"The LTTE (Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam) using combat
aircraft is not only a problem for us. It is a threat to other
nations too," President Mahinda Rajapakse was quoted as saying by
his office.


Rajapakse has also ordered an investigation into the major
security lapses that allowed the attack -- which has seriously
embarrassed the island's defence establishment -- to take place
even though the planes were spotted on radar.


"Ours is not the only country facing a terrorist threat. At a
time when India, Indonesia and several other countries face this
problem, it is significant that the LTTE has acquired an air
capability," the president said.


Military analysts say the Tigers, who are known to possess at
least two Czech- built Zlin-143 single-engine four-seater
aircraft and an airfield, could be the world's first rebel outfit
to use its own planes in a combat role.


In May last year, Sri Lanka's airforce bombed the rebel airfield
at Iranamadu, in the rebel-held Wanni region. The Tigers had also
denied access to the area to Scandanavian truce monitors.


Despite a February 2002 truce arranged by peace broker Norway,
both the Tigers and government forces have been locked in a new
wave of fighting since December 2005.

