

China confirmed on Tuesday that Premier Wen Jiabao will visit
Japan from April 11-13 as the two sides look to nurture a recent
warming of their historically tense relationship.


Wen's visit, the first by a Chinese premier since 2000, is part
of a trip that will take him first to South Korea, a foreign
ministry spokesman said.


"Premier Wen will visit the Republic of Korea from April 10-11
and visit Japan from April 11-13," spokesman Qin Gang said.


He offered no specifics on Wen's expected activities in the two
countries.


However, Japan's foreign ministry said earlier Tuesday that Wen
would meet with Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, Emperor Akihito and
Empress Michiko.


China and Japan have been working to improve relations strained
in recent years over differences in interpreting their wartime
history and continuing energy disputes, among other points of
tension.


Qin also said the two sides would resume long-running talks in
Tokyo on Thursday on their dispute over territorial waters in the
East China Sea that contain large natural gas reserves.


Both countries had earlier announced Wen's visit without giving
the exact dates.


A report by South Korea's Yonhap News agency, quoting an unnamed
Chinese source, said Wen had originally planned a longer trip,
but cut it short due to Abe's controversial remarks over the
World War II sex slave issue.


Abe earlier this month denied that Japanese soldiers directly
coerced so-called "comfort women" into army brothels, but on
Monday appeared to try to make amends by offering a personal
apology over the wartime practice.


China offered little response on Tuesday to Abe's apology.


"We have already stated our position on that and I won't repeat
it here," Qin said.


Abe visited China in October just after taking office in a bid to
repair relations damaged by his predecessor Junichiro Koizumi's
visits to a Japanese shrine seen by China as symbol of wartime
atrocities.

