

The dollar was mixed in Asian trade Tuesday after disappointing
US housing data and rising oil prices triggered by the Iranian
nuclear crisis, dealers said.


They said players were adjusting dollar positions following
losses on the data overnight, with the market looking ahead to
testimony by US Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke and a batch
of Japanese economic indicators.


The dollar was steady at 118.09 yen in Tokyo afternoon trade,
unchanged from in New York late on Monday.


The euro firmed to 1.3328 dollars from 1.3300 but fell to 157.38
yen from 157.44.


"Data on new home sales for February triggered the dollar's fall"
but the currency later recovered," said Kazuhiko Shibata, manager
at Dresdner Bank.


Sales of new US homes fell 3.9 percent in February to a
seasonally adjusted annual rate of 848,000 units, well below
expectations and the lowest level since June 2000.


But dealers said market players reassessed their positions after
recalling a better-than-expected report last week on US existing
home sales.


"Data on existing home sales was reasonably firm and the problems
in the sub- prime (mortgage) market are not impacting the entire
housing market, so there hasn't been a unilateral sale of the
dollar," Shibata said.


The US housing sector has been hit by jitters over loans to "sub-
prime" customers, or those with patchy credit histories.


Dealers also remained cautious over rising oil prices after the
UN Security Council imposed fresh sanctions against Iran in an
attempt to force it to freeze its uranium enrichment.


Market participants will look carefully at testimony Wednesday by
Bernanke to gauge the outlook of the US economy and the Fed's
next moves on interest rates, dealers said.


Japanese traders were also waiting for a slew of data Friday
including inflation and industrial production for February.


The key Tankan business survey will also be out on April 1.


The Bank of Thailand meanwhile dismissed rumours that it was
planning to peg the baht to the dollar, insisting that it would
not turn back to the fixed rate regime used before 1997 financial
crisis.


Rumours of an exchange rate peg, a switch from the current
managed float system, sent the currency falling on the local
market on Monday, when it closed at 35.04-5 to the dollar.


On overseas markets, the dollar rose to 32.40 Thai baht in late
Asian trade Tuesday from 32.03 a day earlier, to 940.85 South
Korean won from 938.70 and to 33.091 Taiwan dollars from 33.08.


The US unit eased to 9,108.5 Indonesian rupiah from 9,115, to
1.5173 Singapore dollars from 1.5179 and to 48.075 Philippine
pesos from 48.10.

