

A Hong Kong official Tuesday sought to calm fears for security at
the 2008 Olympic equestrian events to be held here after
mysterious explosive devices were found buried at a city
racetrack.


Lam Woon-kwong, head of a company that will organise the Olympic
events here, said he would ensure stringent security plans were
in place, in line with the requirements of the International
Olympic Committee (IOC).


"I can assure you that the Hong Kong police and our company will
work together to make sure security arrangements are well
planned. We will ensure that we do everything required by the
IOC," he said.


Hong Kong stepped in to host the Beijing Olympics equestrian
events after Chinese authorities were unable to ensure the health
and safety of competing horses.


Security concerns were raised, however, after a series of 12
liquid-filled darts attached to explosive propellants and battery
packs were found beneath the starting line turf at Hong Kong's
legendary Happy Valley track last week.


Although police would not reveal the contents of the liquid nor
speculate on what the remote-controlled devices were intended
for, racing officials would not rule that they were planted by
race-fixers to nobble horses. Police investigations are ongoing.


Lam would not say whether Olympic security plans had been
reviewed in light of the discovery.


"This is rather a unique incident. Police are still
investigating, so I don't want to speculate," he said at a
luncheon to mark the 500-day countdown to the 2008 Olympics.


"We are not doing anything yet until we have more information
from the police."


Lam said 303 horses were expected to take part in the Olympic
events, and some would take part in trials this August to test
out the venues, facilities and weather conditions.


The trials would form part of the celebrations for the 10th
anniversary of Hong Kong's handover to Chinese rule in 1997.

