

Lithuanian Finance Minister Zigmantas Balcytis quit Tuesday after
his son was involved in a court case over a scandal concerning
European Union funds.


"I would like to announce that I handed my resignation to Prime
Minister Gediminas Kirkilas this morning," Balcytis said in
statement.


"I resign as I do not want to give any grounds for speculation
and interpretation related to my son, despite the fact that the
court decision was in his favour, as I always believed it would
be," Balcytis said.


A court in Vilnius on Monday cleared the minister's son, Donatas
Balcytis, of accusations that he was involved in the
falsification of official documents and of abusing his position,
although it acknowledged that he had forged technical documents.


The minister's son and three of his colleagues from Lithuania's
public sector Business Support Agency were accused of forging
documents which helped the agricultural company Panevezio
Melioracija obtain some 1.0 million litas (289,600 euros) in EU
funding.


Two of Donatas Balcytis' colleagues were also cleared, while the
third was found guilty and banned for two years from working in
public institutions.


The court rejected a prosecution request that Balcytis be fined
10,000 litas and banned from working in the public sector for
four years.


The Business Support Agency is controlled by the the finance
ministry.


The finance minister, who is also a member of parliament, said in
his statement that he would remain in politics.


Balcytis is seen as a potential candidate to replace former
president and prime minister Algirdas Brazauskas as the chairman
of the ruling Social Democrats at the party's congress, scheduled
for May.

