

British oil firm Cairn Energy said on Tuesday that it dived into
the red in 2006 with a net loss of 82 million dollars after
downgrading energy reserves estimates at its Sangu field in
Bangladesh.


The loss, which was equivalent to 61.5 million euros, compared
with profits of 79 million dollars in 2005, Cairn Energy said in
its earnings statement.


Revenue climbed nine percent to 286.3 million dollars, but total
production sank 13.0 percent to 24,523 barrels of oil equivalent
per day.


"The group made a loss after tax of 82.0 million dollars, mainly
due to the exceptional oil and gas write down of 71.5 million
dollars as a result of the downward reserves revision on Sangu,"
Cairn said.


The Sangu field, offshore of southern Bangladesh, has been hit by
falling output and drilling delays.


Cairn said on Tuesday that the total asset write-down relating to
Sangu now stood at 213 billion standard cubic feet (6.39 billion
cubic metres), compared with an earlier estimate of 187 billion
that was given in January.


Estimated reserves at Sangu stood at 116 billion standard cubic
feet. That was about 5.0 percent of Cairn's total booked reserves
for 2006 compared with 6.0 percent previously.


Booked reserves refers to the amount of oil which a company
believes it can recover from the ground.


In morning trade, Cairn's share price fell 1.41 percent to
1,611.00 pence, while London's second-tier FTSE 250 index, on
which the group is listed, rose 0.02 percent to 11,657.40 points.


In response to the results, broker Merrill Lynch said that the
Sangu downgrade lowered the group's net asset value by 7.0 pence
per share, adding that it was the third reserve downgrade in 18
months.


The Edinburgh-based company raised 1.98 billion dollars earlier
this year with the listing of its Indian unit, Cairn India, on
the Mumbai stock exchange.


The parent company Cairn retained a majority 69.5-percent holding
in its Indian offshoot.


Turning to its vast Rajasthan project in western India, Cairn
said talks with the country's state-run Oil and Natural Gas Corp
about pipeline construction were "progressing well."


The company also reaffirmed estimated oil reserves in Rajasthan
of more than 3.6 billion barrels, and planned production from the
field of 150,000 barrels of oil per day.


The first oil production from Mangala, the largest of the fields,
is on schedule for 2009, the group added.


In July last year, Cairn signed a one billion dollar agreement
with more than a dozen banks to develop the Mangala, Aishwariya,
Saraswati and Raageshwari oilfields in the Rajasthan basin.

