

A suicide attacker dressed in army uniform blew himself up
outside a provincial police headquarters in southern Afghanistan
Tuesday, killing four policemen, an official said.


The bomber had been trying to enter the office of the police
chief in the town of Lashkar Gah, the main town in Helmand
province.


"While being searched at the entrance he detonated, killing four
police and wounding one," the police chief, Mohammad Nabi
Mullahkhail, told AFP.


The attacker had a passport application and was "trying to get in
to my office," he said.


Mullahkhail handles passport affairs for the province. The blast
was between 20 and 30 metres (yards) from his office.


Helmand has seen much of this year's violence linked to a bloody
insurgency by the Islamist Taliban movement who mostly target
Afghan and foreign security forces and civilians who work for
them.


Lashkar Gah has been struck by several suicide bombings in the
insurgency, which was launched after the Taliban were toppled
from government in 2001.


Last August a blast in the small town's crowded bazaar killed 17
people and wounded 50.


Military officials have said they expect the Taliban to carry out
more suicide attacks, including on civilians, because they are
unable to confront the security forces in conventional battle.


"We have known that was coming because the enemy knows they
cannot stand up to the army and police toe-to-toe so they are
going to go for soft targets," International Security Assistance
Force spokesman Colonel Tom Collins told AFP this week.


The defence ministry said Monday that Afghan security forces
backed by the ISAF had killed 99 insurgents in a four-day
operation in Helmand, which is a heartland of the Taliban said to
be allied with opium traders.

