

Rebel Chinese Olympic diving champion Tian Liang has retired
following a two- year forced exile from the national team over
disciplinary reasons, his coach said Tuesday, according to the
state press.


The two-time Olympic gold medallist has given up hopes of chasing
a third gold in Beijing next year, believing he is too old, coach
Zhang Ting told the Xinhua news agency.


"We hardly see any divers who are still able to hit the mark
while aged 27, it is just his time (to quit)," Zhang said.


Tian was kicked off the national team in January 2005 for
spending too much time on commercial activities and refusing to
train. His suspension came after he won gold in the synchronised
10m platform event at the Athens Olympics.


Tian had refused to bend to the will of China's famously rigid
sport authorities and apologise.


But many diving fans had still been hoping to see him in action
during the Beijing Games next year.


A group of Chinese lawmakers this month called on China's
parliament to recall Tian to the national team for Beijing, while
criticising the decision to ban the so-called "diving prince" for
disciplinary reasons.


"The country has spent a big sum of money developing Olympic
champions like Tian. No one has the authority to drop a good
athlete," said the proposal to parliament.


China won nine out of the 10 diving gold medals at the ongoing
world championships in Melbourne but tellingly not in Tian's pet
event, the men's 10m platform.


Tian won the 10m platform at the Sydney Olympics and picked up a
bronze in the same event in Athens, as well as his synchronised
10m platform gold with Yang Jinghui.


The timing of Tian's announcement shortly after China failed to
win the 10m platform gold in Melbourne raised eyebrows with some
in the Chinese press.


"I am wondering if it is a coincidence or a protest," a
journalist from Tian's home province of Shaanxi wrote on the
popular Sohu.com sports website.

