

Hong Kong share prices closed 0.30 percent lower Tuesday in
rangebound trade, with some blue chips under mild pressure as US
housing data sparked fresh concerns over the world's largest
economy, dealers said.


They said the recent uptrend in crude oil prices also prompted
investors to take a cautious stance.


The Hang Seng Index closed down 59.06 points at 19,706.79, off a
low of 19,661.86 and a high of 19,768.32. Turnover was 40.35
billion Hong Kong dollars (5.2 billion US).


"Trading was pretty quiet following not-so-exciting leads from
overseas markets,"said Kitty Chan, director at Celestial Asia
Securities.


Profit-taking in China Mobile and HSBC dragged down the index,
she said, noting that investors are locking in profits in blue
chips after recent gains during earnings announcements.


Cheung Kong was down 0.15 at 98.05, after gaining about 6.0
percent in the past week, while Hutchison lost 0.55 at 75.10
after rising nearly 4.0 percent since last week.


China Mobile finished down 1.10 at 70.55 and HSBC was down 0.40
at 137.


Chan said the latest government land auction had a muted impact
on the market as the site put up for sale was small in size and
its location is also relatively remote.


Cheuk Nang Holdings today won a 111,752 square foot residential
site in Cheung Chau Island in New Territories with a bid of 96.5
million dollars, against a minimum asking price of 39 million
dollars, in the government's final land auction in the current
fiscal year.


Cheuk Nang closed down 0.11 at 6.19.


PetroChina rose 0.04 to 8.98, CNOOC was up 0.07 at 6.60 and
Sinopec rose 0.07 to 6.62.

