

Chinese share prices closed 0.51 percent higher Tuesday,
extending gains to a seventh day and yet another record finish in
trade led by some of the larger second-line stocks, dealers said.


They said bouyant investor sentiment pushed the market further
into positive territory on hopes that a strong corporate earnings
outlook will drive share prices even higher.


It was significant that the gains were broadly based as there
have been some concerns that the market has been driven by
interest in only a select few of the larger stocks, they added.


Volumes continued very heavy.


The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index, which covers both A- and
B-shares, closed up 16.02 points at 3,138.83, a fresh closing
high, on turnover of 114.05 billion yuan (14.72 billion US
dollars).


The Shanghai A-share Index was up 16.90 points or 0.51 percent to
3,298.34 on turnover of 113.59 billion yuan and the Shenzhen
A-share Index added 8.20 points or 0.94 percent at 878.99, also a
record, on turnover of 60.90 billion yuan.


"Many second-tier blue chips which are component shares in the
Shanghai and Shenzhen 300 Index remained in favor with investors,
who expect futures on the index to be launched soon," said Zhu
Haibin, an analyst at Everbright Securities.


Dealers said that with the Shanghai Composite Index now firmly
above the psychologically-important 3,000 points level, investors
were increasingly confident that the turmoil of late February is
a thing of the past and further gains are to come.


"The market saw some profit-taking after the key index recorded
gains over the past seven trading days but sentiment remained
strong enough to push the indices back into positive territory,"
said Jiang Fan, an analyst at Soochow Securities.


"The market is expected to retain its strength as more and more
companies report solid earnings growth in their first-quarter
results," Jiang added.


Among the second-liners, Foshan Electrical and Lighting was up
1.76 yuan or 10 percent at 19.40 and Shanghai International Port
Group added 0.83 yuan or 9.68 percent at 9.40.


Guangzhou Baiyun International Airport rose 0.59 yuan or 4.83
percent at 12.81 after 2006 net profit rose 16 percent.


Financials ran into profit-taking with Shanghai Pudong
Development Bank down 0.52 yuan or 2.01 percent at 25.31.
Industrial and Commericial Bank of China slipped 0.03 yuan or
0.58 percent at 5.16 and Bank of China was down 0.04 yuan or 0.77
percent at 5.18.


The Shanghai B-share Index put on 0.36 points or 0.20 percent at
179.62 on turnover of 463.79 million US dollars and the Shenzhen
B-share Index was up 5.92 points or 1.15 percent at 519.77 on
turnover of 592.45 million Hong Kong dollars (76.45 million US
dollars).

