

President Gloria Arroyo on Tuesday welcomed offers by the
European Union and the United States to help solve a spate of
political murders in the Philippines and "break the cycle of
violence."


The president also welcomed a US offer to deploy forensics and
other experts to help authorities here solve the more than 800
murders of activists, journalists, church workers and members of
the judiciary in the past six years.


Local rights groups allege the killings were carried out by
elements within the armed forces, a claim repeated by a UN
special rapporteur who visited the Philippines last month and
backed up by a government inquiry.


"We have a sorry history in our nation of political violnece. We
aim to break this cycle of violence once and for all," Arroyo
told a gathering of Asian newpaper publishers.


"We welcome the fielding of an EU team ... to help our law
enforcers get to the roots of this crime," she said.


Arroyo said she had "no tolerance for human rights violations"
and directly blamed the Communist Party of the Philippines (CPP)
for the deaths.


"It must be said that the CPP and their armed insurgents must
also put down their arms and cease their mindless murders,"
Arroyo said.


The European Union said Monday it would dispatch experts to help
Philippine authorities solve the murders, which have drawn the
attention of the international community.


The CPP and its armed wing, the New People's Army (NPA), have
been waging a Maoist insurgency since 1969, one of Asia's
longest-running communist rebellions.

