

An Indian-born celebrity fashion designer on Wednesday pleaded
not guilty to a string of sexual assaults on 12 women during a
court appearance in Beverly Hills.


Anand Jon Alexander, 33, denied 32 criminal counts relating to a
series of assaults, including rape, on female victims aged
between 14 and 23. A pre-trial hearing at Beverly Hills Superior
Court has been set for June 12.


Prosecutors at Wednesday's arraignment hearing described
Alexander, an up-and- coming designer who has dressed celebrities
including Paris Hilton, as a "sexual predator."


"It's certainly a pattern of conduct," prosecutor Mara McIlvain
said. "It's violent. It's sexual offenses against younger female
victims.


"It's a pattern of conduct that is like a serial sex offender,"
she said.


The New York-based designer was initially charged last month with
alleged acts involving three victims, before a further 13 charges
relating to four more victims were added on March 19.


All the crimes are alleged to have taken place between November
2002 and March 2007.


Alexander is free on 1.3 million dollars bail. As part of his
bail conditions, Alexander has been ordered not to be left alone
with any women aged 30 or younger.


Alexander graduated from the prestigious Parsons School of Design
and launched his own label at New York Fashion Week in 1999.


He is reported to have dressed celebrity socialites such as
Hilton hotel heiresses Paris and Nicky Hilton, Mary J. Blige and
Norah Jones.


According to Alexander's website, he is the winner of various
fashion awards including a 2002 People's Choice "Best New
Designer" prize.

