

Australian police Thursday arrested three men including an army
captain suspected of stealing military rocket launchers, some of
which ended up in the hands of a suspected terrorist, officers
said.


Police allege that the captain, a munitions technical officer at
a Sydney barracks, was the mastermind behind the theft of eight
armour-piercing rocket launchers from the defence force and their
sale to "criminal elements".


"We will allege the captain had intimate knowledge and had worked
very closely in the area where he had access to those type of
weapons," New South Wales Police Deputy Commissioner Terry
Collins said.


The three suspects, who also included a former Australian Defence
Force officer, were arrested in pre-dawn raids in Sydney and have
not yet been identified.


Police allege the rocket launchers were stolen over five years
and sold for about 5,000 dollars (4,050 US) each. Only one has
been recovered.


Collins declined to comment on reports the weapons had been sold
to a member of Australia's biggest outlaw motorcycle gang, the
Rebels.


Formal charges were due to be laid against the three later in the
day.


The raids bring the total number of those arrested in connection
with the weapons theft to four.


Sydney resident Taha Abdul Rahman was arrested last year and
charged with 17 offences relating to the possession and supply of
seven rocket launchers stolen from the military.


According to court documents, Rahman supplied a rocket launcher
in September 2003 to Adnan Darwiche, who last year was jailed for
life for a double murder.


The documents allege that a month later Rahman sold another six
to Darwiche, who was buying five of them on behalf of terrorist
suspect Mohammad Ali Elomar.


Elomar is one of 18 Muslims arrested in counter-terrorism raids
last year who have been accused of planning a "large-scale
attack" in Sydney.

