

More than 100 Japanese, mostly young children and teenagers, have
behaved abnormally since taking the blockbuster flu drug Tamiflu
and eight of them killed themselves, officials said Thursday.


Health authorities in both Japan, the largest importer of
Tamiflu, and the United States had previously ruled out dangers
from taking the drug, which is manufactured by Swiss drug giant
Roche.


But Japan decided to launch a fresh investigation after a spate
of new deaths which led the government last month to issue an
emergency order suspending the prescription of Tamiflu to young
people.


As part of the new probe, the health ministry looked at 1,079
potential cases reported since 2001 and confirmed that 128
patients had behaved abnormally after taking Tamiflu, a ministry
official said.


A total of 100 patients who acted strangely were 20 years old or
younger, and 43 of them were under 10 years old, he said.


The behaviour included sudden fits of extreme behaviour such as
trying to jump from a balcony, the official said.


Eight people -- five in their teens and three adults -- died
after falling from tall buildings or in drastic actions such as
running in front of a car, he said.


The report was submitted Wednesday to a health ministry panel
which is investigating whether Tamiflu was to blame for the
abnormal behaviour, he said.


Tokyo buys more than 60 percent of the world's supply of Tamiflu,
which is prescribed for the common flu and is seen as a frontline
drug against a potential avian influenza pandemic.


Roche denies any dangerous side-effects of its drug, which Japan
has stockpiled as a precaution for such a pandemic.

