

Former world champion Australian weightlifter Sergo Chakhoyan was
on Thursday banned form the sport for life for a second doping
offence, Australian anti- doping chiefs announced.


The 2003 world champion received the lifetime penalty after
testing positive for a banned stimulant, benzylpiperazine (BZP),
during an international meet in October 2005, the Australian
Sports Anti-Doping Authority (ASADA) said.


Chakhoyan, 37, was previously banned for two years after testing
positive for the anabolic steroid stanozolol during the Goodwill
Games in Brisbane in 2001.


The second offence triggered an automatic life ban under the
sport's rules.


ASADA said the Court for Arbitration in Sport found that
Chakhoyan deliberately flouted the doping rules at the
Commonwealth, Oceania and South Pacific weightlifting
championships in October 2005.


"This was a case where the athlete took a prohibited substance
immediately prior to or during a competition without any apparent
regard as to whether the substance was prohibited in
competition," it concluded.


"When viewed in the totality of the circumstances and taking into
account the criteria for No Fault or Negligence the Respondent's
fault or negligence was significant," it added.


Chakhoyan's case helped to spark an intensive ASADA investigation
that revealed an organised drug ring was at work within
Australian weightlifting.


The Armenian-born former world number one weightlifter in the
85-kilogramme class was stripped of the three gold medals he won
at the Goodwill Games and his results from the 2005 Commonwealth,
Oceania and South Pacific championships were also disqualified.


Chakhoyan competed for Australia in the 2000 Olympic Games in
Sydney and again in Athens in 2004 after emigrating here in 1999.


He is the fourth Australian weightlifter to be banned after
testing  positive for BZP, following Corran Hocking, Jenna Myers
and Camilla Fogagnolo.

