

US Trade Representative Susan Schwab is to make her first trip to
India next week in a bid to step up bilateral trade and
investment between the two large democracies.


She will co-chair a ministerial-level meeting of the US-India
Trade Policy Forum with India's Minister of Commerce and Industry
Kamal Nath during the visit from April 12-15, her office said in
a statement.


"The United States and India maintain one of the world's fastest
growing major bilateral trade relationships and are committed to
a goal of doubling bilateral trade to approximately 60 billion
dollars by 2008," the statement said.


At the Trade Policy Forum, Schwab will discuss "initiatives to
strengthen bilateral trade ties and achieve progress in the areas
of agricultural trade, investment, trade in services, reduction
of tariff and non-tariff barriers, and boosting innovation and
creativity."


The forum was launched during the visit of Indian Prime Minister
Manmohan Singh to Washington in July 2005 when he and US
President George W. Bush agreed to a landmark civilian nuclear
deal.


Under the deal, which Bush signed into law in December but which
is still being discussed for final US Congress approval, the
United States would provide nuclear technology and fuel to India.


While in India, Schwab will also hold discussions with senior
Indian officials on the Doha Round of global trade liberalization
talks and "do a stocktaking of progress" on the effort to devise
new world trade rules.


WTO officials are pushing for a breakthrough in the talks before
the expiry of Bush's fast-track Trade Promotion Authority on July
1.


India says it rejects any deadline for completing the Doha Round
talks and sees no breakthrough unless rich nations address the
livelihood concerns of developing countries.

