

US President George W. Bush will bypass the Senate and appoint a
controversial supporter as US ambassador to Belgium, the White
House said Wednesday, outraging Democrats.


Bush plans to use a presidential prerogative called a "recess
appointment" to hand Sam Fox the job while lawmakers are out on
their spring recess, skirting what likely would have been an
impossible Senate confirmation.


Democrats who now control the US Congress fiercely opposed Fox
over his support for a harsh campaign alleging that Bush's 2004
Democratic rival, Senator John Kerry, exaggerated his military
record.


The White House withdrew Fox's nomination to the job in late
March, citing what aides predicted would be certain defeat. At
the time, Kerry called it "the right decision" and said he hoped
the move would mark "a new era" in politics.


On Wednesday, the senator said in a statement that "it's sad but
not surprising that this White House would abuse the power of the
presidency to reward a donor over the objections of the Senate."


Democratic Senator Chris Dodd called the appointment "outrageous"
and added "I seriously question the legality of the president's
use of the recess appointment authority in this instance."


"This is underhanded and an abuse of Executive authority -- sadly
this behavior has become the hallmark of this administration,"
Dodd said in a statement.


During the 2004 campaign, Fox backed a group called Swift Boat
Veterans for Truth, which alleged that Kerry, a decorated war
veteran, lied to obtain two of his medals and that he betrayed US
forces still in Vietnam by alleging after he returned to the
United States that US troops committed atrocities.


In the United States, the administration often nominates generous
political donors to ambassadorial posts, but this has become more
difficult for Bush now that Democrats control the US Congress.

