

Venezuela's government left bar-owners reeling by imposing an
alcohol ban over Holy Week and Easter weekend, forcing drinkers
in the whisky-mad Catholic country to use covert methods in
search of a fix.


The ban outlaws drinking alcohol from 5:00 pm to 10:00 am each
night from March 31, and all day from the following Thursday to
Easter Sunday. It aims to lower the toll of traffic accidents due
to drunk-driving over the period.


But it has led the South American country's top beer brewer,
Cerverceria Polar, to cancel a series of festive events it had
planned for the week on the tourist island of Margarita and other
resorts.


In a shop in the neighborhood of La Carlota, near the president's
residence in Caracas, drinkers have taken to ordering "a kilo of
beans" from their grocer -- code words for a pack of beer.


Traders in the seaside resorts have complained they will lose up
to 70 percent of their business during the ban. Other
celebrations -- salsa, reggae and rock concerts -- have also been
called off at beaches on Venezuela's Caribbean coast.


Hardened bar and restaurant-owners in the coastal capital Caracas
were not cowed, however, saying that in parts of the city the
police will be unable to enforce the dry-out.


"In the working class areas there is no alcohol ban," said one
bar owner in the central district of Chacao. "The police won't go
in there because the delinquents are better armed than they are."


Pedro Carreno, the interior and justice minister in the
government of firebrand socialist President Hugo Chavez, has
championed the ban, insisting: "You don't have to have alcohol to
have a good time."


The finance ministry meanwhile has announced new taxes to curb
the country's taste for mature Scottish imports. Venezuela is the
world's biggest consumer of 18-year-old whisky.

