

Another Australian -- Dav Whatmore -- has emerged among the
frontrunners to succeed Greg Chappell as coach of India, one of
the hottest and toughest jobs in cricket.


"I'm definitely interested," Whatmore told Thursday's Times of
India.


The storm surrounding Chappell's snap resignation did not seem to
have put off the current coach of Bangladesh who beat India in
their World Cup opener.


"I'm very familiar with the way of life in the subcontinent,"
Whatmore said. "My parents and grandparents were Sri Lankan. My
Asian roots and Western upbringing give me a nice blend. So I
really do enjoy working in the subcontinent.


"I just love the heat and humidity. I don't mind working with
young players who don't speak English. I'm comfortable with
senior players too."


India media have reported a spectacular falling out between
Chappell and India's senior players whom he is reported to have
described as a "mafia".


Chappell, the former Australian captain, sent an e-mail to the
Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) on Wednesday saying
he did not want to seek an extension due to "family and personal"
reasons.


Senior pro Sachin Tendulkar responded to media reports that
Chappell had blamed the unhelpful attitude of seniors for the
disastrous World Cup campaign.


West Indian legend Vivian Richards has already offered to help
India's cricketers in the aftermath of the World Cup and is a
media favourite here.


News reports have also put Sri Lanka's quiet man Tom Moody at the
top of the list of candidates alongside Indian stalwarts Sunil
Gavaskar and Mohinder Amarnath.


India must find Chappell's replacement quickly since they are due
to tour Bangladesh in May for two Tests and three one-day
internationals.


India, one of the pre-tournament favourites, were upset by
Bangladesh in the first match and also lost to Sri Lanka to
record their worst World Cup performance since 1979.

