

The Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ) on Thursday called for
the immediate release of a Filipino radio commentator convicted
of libelling a close ally of President Gloria Arroyo.


A court in the southern city of Davao on Monday sentenced Alex
Adonis to four and a half years in prison for attacking House of
Representatives majority leader Prospero Nograles on air.


The case stemmed from a series of exposes and critical
commentaries made by Adonis in his programme on Bombo Radio about
Nograles' alleged extramarital affair. Nograles denied the report
and sued Adonis for libel.


"We are gravely concerned about the jail sentence handed down to
radio commentator Alex Adonis," CPJ executive director Joel Simon
said in a statement.


"Jail terms are never appropriate recourse for libel convictions
and could lead to self-censorship across all media outlets."


The New York-based press watchdog said Adonis, 43, was not given
due process -- he did not have enough funds to pay for proper
legal representation and the verdict was promulgated just four
months after the case was lodged.


A co-defendant in the case was acquitted because the
prosecution's main witness died during the hearings.


Local politicians, including Arroyo's husband Jose Miguel, have
in recent months filed a raft of criminal libel cases against the
Philippine press, which the CPJ said were an attempt to "stifle
critical news coverage."


In 2006 alone, Arroyo's spouse filed over 40 criminal defamation
cases against journalists, some of whom had written about alleged
cheating that took place in the May 2004 presidential polls won
by Arroyo.

