

China will overtake Japan to become the Asia Pacific's largest
auto maker by 2010 with an annual output of 11 million light
vehicles, an international research firm said Thursday.


"Japanese production is reducing largely because production is
being shifted to the Chinese market," Benjamin Asher, a Beijing-
based business manager with JD Power-Automotive Resources Asia,
told AFP.


Japan manufactured 10.8 million light vehicles in 2006, but
growth for 2007 is expected to decline 1.7 percent to 10.6
million units and to 10 million by 2010, said a quarterly
forecast report released by the company this week.


Light vehicle refers to any motor vehicle, except a bus, trailer
or motorcycle, with a gross weight rating of 10,000 pounds (4,500
kilogrammes) or less.


Meanwhile, China will continue to grow, despite an anticipated
slowdown from the 28.4 percent growth in 2006 on the back of
government policies aimed at cooling the economy, the report
said.


This year output is expected to increase by 14.3 percent to 7.6
million units, and after that slow further through to 2010 when
production will be 11 million units, but growth will remain in
double digits, it added.


By 2010, the combined output of China and Japan will account for
76 percent of the expected 31.4 million light vehicles
manufactured in the Asia Pacific, said the forecast.


India, South Korea and Thailand are the only other countries in
the region that manufacture over one million vehicles a year, it
added.

