

With their recent agreement to extract methane gas from under
Lake Kivu, one of Africa's Great Lakes, DR Congo and Rwanda hope
not only to produce power but also to defuse a massive timebomb.


"The reserves are currently estimated at around 55 billion cubic
metres (two trillion cubic feet)," said Celestin Kasereka,
researcher at nearby Goma's volcanic observatory.


"The danger with the gas is that it is explosive when in a very
strong concentration."


Around two million people live around the lake. If the methane
exploded, carbon dioxide -- denser than air -- would be released,
killing tens of thousands of people, Kasereka believes.


There is four times as much carbon dioxide under the lake as
methane.


Lake Kivu sits in an area of high volcanic activity, and a large
flow of lava into its waters could cause an explosion, prompting
a catastrophe, Kasereka said.


When Mount Nyiragongo last erupted in 2002, the volcano spewed
out 38 million cubic metres of lava, engulfing parts of the
nearby city of Goma.


"If a similar amount went directly into the lake, at high
velocity, that could reach the deep waters and cause a gas
explosion," Kasereka said.


The resulting disaster would be even worse than when gas escaped
from Lake Nyos in Cameroon in August 1986, Kasereka said, when
carbon dioxide seeped out of the lake after an explosion and
suffocated 1,800 people.


Taking out the gas would reduce the risk, although the joint
Kigali-Kinshasa project, signed on March 28, is not scheduled to
be operational before 2009.


The project could provide 500 megawatts of energy, supplying
electricity to all those living around the 50-by-90-kilometre
lake, said DRC's hydrocarbons minister Lambert Mende.

