

The United Nations said Wednesday that it was studying a request
by Lebanese lawmakers for the Security Council to set up an
international tribunal to try suspects in the 2005 murder of
Lebanese former premier Rafiq Hariri.


"The secretariat has received a memorandum addressed to the
Secretary General by 70 Lebanese parliamentarians and is studying
it," UN spokeswoman Michele Montas told a press briefing.


"The Secretary General continues to be concerned by the political
impasse in Lebanon and hopes that the relevant Lebanese
institutions will take the steps necessary under their
Constitution to conclude the agreement," she added.


Tuesday, Saad Hariri, the son of the murdered Lebanese leader,
handed in the memorandum, which was signed by 70 Lebanese members
of parliament, to Geir Pedersen, the UN special coordinator for
Lebanon.


Addressed to UN chief Ban Ki-moon, the text requested that "all
alternative measures" be taken by the UN Security Council to
establish an international tribunal.


Hariri wants the Security Council to by-pass the political
paralysis in Lebanon over establishing the tribunal which would
investigate the 2005 murder of the former prime minister by
resorting if necessary to Chapter Seven of the UN Charter.


Chapter Seven is invoked to impose measures in cases of threats
to international peace and security or aggression.


Hariri and 22 others were killed in a massive bomb blast in
February 2005 in Beirut.


The United Nations has signed a deal with the government to set
up the tribunal, but it must be ratified by the country's divided
parliament.


But Lebanon's pro-Syrian opposition objects to the way the Beirut
government has handled plans to create the court under UN
auspices and has so far managed to block all moves to set up the
court.


Pro-Syrian parliament speaker Nabih Berri has refused to allow
the government to submit a bill that would authorize the court,
effectively blocking the tribunal's creation.


Lebanon's pro-Western parliamentary majority responded by
threatening to ask the UN to invoke Chapter Seven to set up the
tribunal.


It accuses allies of Syria of trying to block the creation of the
tribunal under pressure from Damascus, which according to a UN
enquiry panel was implicated in the Hariri slaying. But Syria has
denied any role in the murder.


Montas meanwhile said that during Ban's recent visit to Beirut,
all of his interlocutors expressed "their support for the process
that would bring to justice those responsible for the attack"
that killed Hariri and others.


"The Secretary General remains convinced that the preferred path
toward justice is through the fulfillment of the Lebanese
constitutional process," she added.

