

A teenage girl in Indonesia is infected with the deadly bird flu
virus, becoming the 93rd confirmed case in the country worst hit
by the disease, a health official said Thursday.


The 15-year-old lives in the country's sprawling capital,
Jakarta, and is in intensive care in one of the city's hospitals,
a spokesperson from Indonesia's bird flu information centre said.


"Specimens taken from her have tested positive for the H5N1 virus
in two tests," said the official, referring to the deadly strain
that has killed 72 people here.


Meanwhile a 29-year-old man died Wednesday in Solo after showing
bird flu symptoms, said Refiono, a doctor from the hospital that
treated him. Solo lies about 500 kilometres (300 miles) from the
capital.


"Results of tests have yet to be completed but the patient's body
is being treated as a bird flu case," the doctor told AFP, adding
the victim had been in contact with infected chickens.


Most human infections have occurred after contact with sick
birds. The government has banned the popular practice of keeping
poultry in backyards in Jakarta to try and stop the spread of the
disease.


The World Health Organisation says the deadly H5N1 strain of bird
flu has infected 288 people and killed 170 of them, mostly in
Southeast Asia, since 2003.


Scientists say multiple strains of the disease originated in
southern China and spread elsewhere.


They worry the virus could mutate into a form easily spread among
humans, leading to a global pandemic with the potential to kill
millions.


The fear stems from the lessons of past influenza pandemics. One
in 1918, just after the end of World War I, killed 20 million
people worldwide.

