

Hewlett-Packard on Wednesday showed off innovations it said were
at the heart of a plan to become a major player in the multi-
billion dollar computer game market.


HP used a San Francisco art and film studio as the setting to
demonstrate gaming creations that sprang from collaboration with
engineers at VoodooPC, a Canada- based premier computer game
company HP bought in September of 2006.


HP has its sights set on winning computer game business from
rival US computer maker Dell.


"I can assure you that when we start playing in that space, the
gloves are coming off," said Rahul Sood, chief technical officer
of HP global gaming and founder of VoodooPC.


HP said it would begin selling computer game gear later this year
featuring innovations such as mobile technologies that make
dashing about outside part of the play.


HP was targeting mobile, online and computer gaming and did not
intend to go compete with video game consoles made by Sony,
Microsoft or Nintendo, according to Sood.


"All of our customers own consoles as well as personal
computers," Sood told AFP. "The truth is we are looking to build
an ecosystem where all sorts of gamers have access to our
technology."


Technologies demonstrated by HP Labs included a curved computer
display designed to "immerse" gamers in action and a way to
incorporate city streets in games played on the move with
wireless handheld devices.


The worldwide computer game market is estimated at more than 36
billion dollars by Informa Media Group.


The Consumer Electronics Association (CEA) reports that there are
more than 12 million active subscriptions to online games such as
World of Warcraft.


US gamers spent more than 20 billion on gaming software and
hardware in 2005, according to the CEA.

