

Japanese share prices fell 0.43 percent in morning trade Thursday
on profit- taking after two straight days of solid gains as
caution set in ahead of major US economic data, dealers said.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares was
down 76.19 points to 17,467.90 at the lunch break.


The TOPIX index of all first section issues dropped 11.13 points
or 0.64 percent to 1,719.39.


Decliners led gainers 953 to 612, with 145 stocks flat.


Turnover was 986 million shares, down from 1.1 billion on
Wednesday morning.


Hideyuki Suzuki, a strategist at SBI Securities, said the losses
"were simply due to profit-taking after two days of rallies."


The Nikkei 225 had gained more than 500 points in the past two
days.


"But there was selective buying of stocks such as those of some
high-tech companies," Suzuki said.


Some investors were also staying on the sidelines ahead of
closely watched US jobs data to be released Friday, dealers said.


Oil shares fell after crude prices slipped following Iran's
decision to free 15 British sailors it held captive.


Inpex Holdings fell 28,000 yen or 2.8 percent to 972,000 and
Nippon Oil shed 34 yen or 3.6 percent to 912.


Steel makers were also lower. Nippon Steel dropped 14 yen or 1.7
percent to 803, Sumitomo Metal Industries declined 12 yen or 2.0
percent to 580 and JFE Holdings was down 140 yen or 2.1 percent
at 6,650.


But shares in electronics companies were mostly higher. NEC
Electronics was up 80 yen or 2.7 percent at 2,985, Elpida Memory
rose 100 yen or 1.98 percent to 5,160 and Rohm gained 130 yen or
1.2 percent to 10,890.


Hitachi climbed 15 yen or 1.6 percent to 936, Toshiba Corp was 10
yen or 1.2 percent higher at 846 and Fujitsu rose 12 yen or 1.4
percent to 838.


Retailer Aeon was down 55 yen or 2.3 percent at 2,335 despite
forecasting record profits for the fiscal year ending next
February, dealers said.

