

Troubled East Timor goes to the polls Monday in its first
presidential election since it declared independence in 2002.


It is one of the world's newest and poorest countries, with a
history of bloody unrest that has raised fears the vote could
trigger fresh violence.


Here are the key facts about the fledgling nation, officially
known as Timor- Leste:


POPULATION: About one million


GEOGRAPHY: East Timor covers 15,000 square kilometres (5,800
square miles) in Southeast Asia, northwest of Australia and at
the eastern end of the Indonesian archipelago.


CAPITAL: Dili


ECONOMY: Its annual gross domestic product was about 350 million
dollars in 2005. The economy grew just 1.8 percent that year.


-- The income per person is 350 dollars. East Timor is one of the
world's poorest nations. More than 20 percent live on less than
one dollar per day.


-- Hope for the future centres on large offshore oil fields.


LANGUAGE: Tetum, Bahasa Indonesian


RELIGION: Catholic (90 percent), along with small numbers of
Muslims and Protestants.


HISTORY: The Portuguese reach East Timor around 1515 and go on to
colonise it.


-- Japan invades in 1942 during World War II, controlling the
territory until 1945. Portugal resumes colonial authority after
Japan's defeat in the war.


-- East Timor declares independence from Portugal on November 28,
1975.


-- Indonesian troops launch an invasion on 7 December 1975. About
60,000 people are killed.


-- East Timor's resistance leader Xanana Gusmao is captured by
Indonesian forces in 1992.


-- Jose Ramos-Horta and Bishop Carlos Felipe Ximenes Belo share
the 1996 Nobel Peace Prize for their work towards a just and
peaceful solution to the conflict in East Timor.


-- Indonesia and Portugal agree in May 1999 to let East Timor
vote on independence.


-- Some 78 percent vote for independence in August 1999.


-- 1,400 people are killed in violence around the poll and much
of East Timor's infrastructure is destroyed. The atrocities are
blamed on militias recruited by the Indonesian military. An
Australian-led multinational force moves in to restore order.


-- The UN establishes a body to administer the country on 25
October 1999. Gusmao is freed around this time.


-- East Timor holds its first election on 30 August 2001 for a
Constitute Assembly to draw up a constitution.


-- Gusmao wins East Timor's first presidential election, held on
14 April 2002 before formal independence, by a landslide.


-- East Timor declares independence on 20 May 2002 and
international peacekeepers leave by June 2005.


-- Violence rocks the country in April and May 2006, killing 37
people and displacing 150,000. Australian-led peacekeepers return
to stabilise it.


-- Ramos-Horta is sworn in as prime minister in July 2006,
replacing Mari Alkatiri in the wake of the violence.


-- East Timor holds on April 9 2007 its first presidential
election since formal independence. Parliamentary elections are
due later in the year.

