

Thailand's decision to ban video-sharing website YouTube has
highlighted a growing crackdown by the junta against political
comment online, a media rights group said on Thursday.


The military-installed government announced Wednesday that it had
banned YouTube after authorities failed to block a video
considered insulting to King Bhumibol Adulyadej, a revered figure
here.


The 44-second clip shows images of the king, crudely altered with
a graphics programme, which flash on the screen to the tune of
the Thai national anthem.


One image shows the monarch under a photograph of feet, which are
considered the lowest part of the body in Buddhism. The image is
hugely offensive in Thailand, a mainly Buddhist country.


The Southeast Asian Press Alliance said that while commentary
about the king is culturally sensitive in Thailand, blocking the
entire site raised serious concerns.


"Thais are now deprived of a popular and accessible medium that
can accommodate alternative and independent voices," it said in a
statement.


"There is a growing spectre of intolerance toward web-based media
as a whole. The Internet is vulnerable in Thailand, and not just
when it comes to material pertaining to the king," it said.


Since the military seized power in a September coup, it has also
blocked political websites linked to ousted premier Thaksin
Shinawatra as well as a university discussion board.


Police are also investigating a website calling on the king to
sack his top adviser, Prem Tinsulanonda, over his alleged role in
masterminding the coup.


YouTube is owned by Internet giant Google, and has a monthly
audience of more than 70 million viewers. The company did not
immediately respond to email queries for comment.

