

Britain's biggest defence manufacturer BAE Systems confirmed to
the attorney general that it had provided "support services" to
Saudi officials in communication 18 months ago, an account made
public under freedom of information laws showed Thursday.


Though the account did not specify what the "support services"
were, BAE denied allegations of bribery being investigated by
Britain's anti-corruption watchdog, claiming that the services
were part of "contractual arrangements."


The investigation and communication related to an arms deal known
as Al-Yamamah between BAE and Saudi Arabia in the 1980s, which
was being investigated by the Serious Fraud Office (SFO).


It was alleged that BAE had provided a slush fund for members of
the Saudi royal family, to encourage them to continue doing
business with the company.


The inquiry was stopped in December by the British government on
the grounds of "national interest", saying that Saudi Arabia had
threatened to sever its security links if the probe continued.


The account, published by the Attorney General Lord Peter
Goldsmith's office, also describes how lawyers for BAE called on
the SFO to abandon its investigation because it would "adversely
and seriously affect relations between the UK and Saudi Arabian
governments."


BAE's lawyers also claimed that the inquiry "would inevitably
prevent the UK securing the next tranche of work under the Al
Yamamah programme."


They were told, in response, that "it was inappropriate to make
such representations" to the attorney general's office, and the
claims were passed on to the SFO.


According to the Financial Times, BAE declined to comment on the
material published by the attorney general's office, and denied
any wrongdoing.


The SFO is reportedly examining BAE Systems' dealings in the
Czech Republic, Romania, Chile, Qatar, South Africa and Tanzania.

