

Oil prices declined in Asian trade Thursday after Iran decided to
free 15 British sailors it held captive, easing fears the
diplomatic row could escalate and disrupt crude supplies, dealers
said.


This news, however, was offset by disappointing energy inventory
data from the United States, the world's biggest energy consumer,
they added.


At 9:35 am (0135 GMT), New York's main oil futures contract,
light sweet crude for delivery in May, was down 15 cents to 64.23
dollars a barrel from 64.38 dollars in late US trades.


The contract hit a low of 63.56 dollars in New York after the
news from Iran.


Brent North Sea crude for May delivery was down two cents to
68.38 dollars. The contract had fallen to 66.93 dollars on news
of the sailors' release.


Iran announced Wednesday it was releasing 15 British navy
personnel captured by the Islamic Republic almost a fortnight
ago.


Concerns about the standoff caused by their detention had
propelled oil prices to seven-month highs above 69 dollars in
London on Monday.


Iran is the world's fourth-largest oil producer.


"The fall in prices was much more aggressive after the news that
Iran would release the hostages," said Bart Melek at BMO Capital
Markets.


"Then the inventory data came out and they were fairly bullish
because of a big drop in gasoline that overpowered the big rise
in crude."


The weekly report by the US Department of Energy showed gasoline
(petrol) reserves fell five million barrels to 205.2 million last
week, against a forecast drawdown of 300,000 barrels.


Motor fuel stocks are being closely watched ahead of the US
driving season, which sees Americans take to the roads for their
summer vacations.


The drop prompted a rise in overall prices even though US crude
inventories jumped by 4.3 million barrels to 332.7 million in the
week to March 30.

