

Fifteen British sailors released by Iran after two weeks in
detention left Tehran on Thursday on a flight home to Britain.


Their departure follows a dramatic announcement by President
Mahmoud Ahmadinejad that they would be released, ending a tense
diplomatic standoff.


Here is an updated timeline of events in the crisis.


Friday, March 23


-- Britain's defence ministry announces that 15 British sailors
and marines inspecting a merchant ship in Iraqi waters have been
seized at gunpoint by personnel aboard Iranian navy ships.


-- Iran's foreign ministry says the sailors illegally entered
Iranian territorial waters and were arrested by border guards
"for investigation and questioning."


Saturday, March 24


-- Iranian armed forces general staff spokesman General Alireza
Afshar says the 15 Britons admitted to violating its territorial
waters.


Sunday, March 25


-- Britain's ambassador to Tehran, Geoffrey Adams, asks to meet
with the 15 and demands their immediate release.


-- Prime Minister Tony Blair calls their seizure "unjustified and
wrong."


Monday, March 26


-- Iran's Deputy Foreign Minister Mehdi Mostafavi says the
Britons are being interrogated and will have to answer to
allegations they violated Iranian waters.


Tuesday, March 27


-- Blair warns Iran that the stand-off would enter a "different
phase" if diplomatic efforts to secure their release failed.


Wednesday, March 28


-- Britain releases evidence it says proves the Britons were in
Iraqi waters and announces a freeze on official contacts with
Iran. Blair pledges to "ratchet up" pressure on Tehran.


-- The Iranian foreign ministry says it will release the only
woman among the captives, sailor Faye Turney, in one or two days.


-- Iranian television broadcasts the first footage of the sailors
and marines in which Turney says they "trespassed" in Iranian
waters.


-- Iran releases a letter, purportedly written by 26-year-old
Turney to her family, in which she said she had apologised to the
Iranians.


-- Britain condemns Iran for publishing the letter and for airing
the footage and voices concerns about possible coercion.


-- US President George W. Bush gives full backing to Britain over
the crisis.


Thursday, March 29


-- Iran changes its mind about releasing Turney, accusing London
of stirring up a furore.


-- Blair warns Iran there was a "whole series of measures" that
could be taken and calls the showing of Turney footage a
"disgrace."


-- UN Security Council adopts a watered-down statement expressing
"grave concern" at the detention, urging Tehran to allow consular
access.


-- Tehran releases a second letter apparently written by Turney,
in which she suggested it was time for Britain to withdraw its
troops from Iraq.


Friday, March 30


-- Iran airs television footage of a "confession" from Royal Navy
serviceman Nathan Thomas Sommers and a third letter from Turney.


-- The United States rejects suggestions the 15 could be swapped
for five Iranian officials held by US forces in Iraq.


-- The European Union defies Iranian calls to stay out of the
row, calling the seizure a breach of international law and
threatening to take action.


-- Ahmadinejad says Britain should apologise for "violating" its
territorial waters.


-- Oil prices surge past 69 dollars a barrel in London, a near
seven-month high.


Saturday, March 31


-- Iran warns Britain over politicising the crisis, while British
Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett accuses Iran of "sabre-
rattling."


Sunday, April 1


-- Iranian students pelt British embassy in Tehran with rocks.


-- Tehran broadcasts new TV footage of detainees.


-- Britain and Iran say they are in direct communication over the
dispute.


Monday, April 2


-- Iran's top security official says "no need" to put detainees
on trial and stresses desire for diplomatic solution.


Tuesday, April 3


-- Blair says stand-off facing a "critical" 48 hours and warns of
"tougher decisions" if personnel not freed.


Wednesday, April 4


-- Iran applauds "change of tone" from Britain after talks with a
top Blair advisor.


-- Ahmadinejad announces all 15 have been pardoned and will be
freed imminently as "a gift" to Britain.


Thursday, April 5


-- The 15 Britons leave on a British Airways flight for London

