

A television spot featuring Toronto Blue Jays slugger Frank
Thomas walloping a child in a pillow fight was deemed too violent
for local audiences by Canada's advertising watchdog, the team
lamented Wednesday.


The Major League Baseball franchise was forced by the Television
Bureau of Canada to pull the ad, which showed a child being
knocked to the floor by the player nicknamed the "Big Hurt."


A Globe and Mail headline shouted from its front page: "Swing and
a miss for Blue Jay's commercial."


Talk radio shows were flooded with complaints on both sides,
while pundits pointed out worse violence in kids' cartoons.


"Who would have thought a pillow fight would cause such a fuss?"
Laurel Lindsay, vice president of marketing for the Blue Jays,
told AFP.


The Jays opened their 2007 season on Monday, defeating the Tigers
5-3 in in Detroit.


Paris-based Publicis created the ad to herald the new baseball
season.


In the 30-second commercial, a boy hits Thomas with a pillow.
Thomas grabs the pillow and slugs the child with a mighty
baseball swing. Feathers fly and the child falls backward to the
ground with a thud.


Thomas, a 17-year veteran of Major League Baseball with three
children of his own, is one of the club's new additions.


The former US college football player stands two meters (six feet
five inches) and weighs 275 pounds. He is one of baseball's top
hitters with 487 career home runs.


"We are very family-oriented. We truly went into this thinking
that we had a funny spot that showcased Frank in a fun-loving
way. It's frustrating that we aren't allowed to run with it,"
Lindsay said. "Frank is a big kid himself."


But the Television Bureau of Canada was concerned about "Frank
being so big and the child being so small" and felt it "showed
the child getting hurt," she explained.

