

Eight candidates, including Prime Minister Jose Ramos-Horta, are
seeking the presidency of East Timor in Monday's election.


Ramos-Horta, 57, is running with the support of the newly-formed
National Unity of Timorese Resistance (Undertim) party.


A founder of the independence movement, he gained international
prominence as the exiled voice of East Timor during a 24-year
Indonesian occupation.


After independence in 2002 the Nobel laureate served as foreign
minister before being named prime minister and defence minister
last year.


The other candidates are:


-- Fransisco Guterres, 52, popularly known as Lu Olo, who was the
second-highest officer in the guerrilla movement which fought
occupying Indonesian forces. He is chairman of the Fretilin party
and parliamentary speaker.


-- Fernando "Lasama" De Araujo, chairman of the opposition
Democrat Party. He was foreign minister in a United Nations
transitional administration before independence.


-- Fransisco Xavier do Amaral, who unilaterally proclaimed
independence on November 28, 1975. He is a founder of Fretilin,
and chairman of the Timorese Social Democrat Association (ASDT)
party. Do Amaral ran against Xanana Gusmao in the 2002
presidential election.


-- Joao Viegas Carrascalao, who served as infrastructure minister
in the UN administration before independence. He is a brother of
Mario Carrascalao, the last governor under Indonesian occupation.


-- Avelino Coelho, founder of the Timor Socialist Party (PST),
which broke away in the 1990s from Fretilin, which led the
independence struggle.


-- Lucia Lobato, the only female candidate, who is running for
the opposition East Timorese Social Democrat party.


-- Manuel Tilman, a lawyer, from the Klibur Oan Timor Asuwain
(KOTA) party.

