

Myanmar and Thailand have begun building a controversial hydro-
power dam on the Salween River, the as yet longest undammed
waterway in southeast Asia, official media reported Thursday.


Thailand's MDX Group Co Ltd has invested about six billion
dollars in the Tasang project in eastern Shan State, which is the
biggest of four planned dams on the Salween.


The state-run New Light of Myanmar newspaper said construction
began on March 30 -- a move likely to dismay environmentalists
who had called for a delay to allow a public consultation on the
project.


Activists say the dams could prove disastrous to Salween's
delicate ecosystem and accuse Myanmar's military junta of using
the dams as an excuse to evict thousands of ethnic minority
villagers from their land.


The New Light of Myanmar said the dam located about 45 miles (75
kilometres) from the Thai border in Myanmar's Shan state would be
2,848 feet (868 metres) long and 746 feet (227 meters) high.


"On completion, generators to be equipped at the power station
will have a total capacity of 7,110 megawatts and the project is
expected to produce 35,446 million (kilo-watts per hour) yearly,"
the newspaper said.


Senior officials from Myanmar's state-run energy firms and MDX
Group attended an official opening ceremony.


Three more dams on the Salween near the Thai-Myanmar border are
in the pipeline, mostly backed by Chinese state-owned energy
companies.


The United States and Europe have economic sanctions against
military-run Myanmar to punish them for the ongoing detention of
democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi and other human rights abuses.


But energy-hungry neighbours like Thailand, China and India are
keen to exploit the country's abundant natural resources
including energy, natural gas and timber, throwing an economic
lifeline to the military junta.

