

European plane maker Airbus hopes to conclude partnership deals
for three of its factories by mid-July as part of its radical
restructuring efforts, a trade union source said Wednesday.


Airbus management met European trade union leaders on Wednesday
to discuss the implementation of its "Power8" cost-cutting plan,
announced in February, which is to lead to 10,000 job losses over
the next four years.


An official from the Force Ouvriere trade union, Jean-Francois
Knepper, said the partnership agreements would be signed by mid-
July, with French equipment maker Latecoere seen as a potential
buyer of a factory in Meaulte in northeast France.


The restructuring plan foresees the divestment of three other
factories, two in Germany and another in France.


Knepper said the company's European works council had asked two
research groups in France and Germany to analyse "the added value
that Airbus will get from these factories by selling or making
them into subsidiaries."


Commenting on the meeting, Airbus said the talks had taken place
"in a constructive atmosphere with demands for and exchanges of
information" between workers and management.


Under the Power8 restructuring plan, the group plans to shed
10,000 jobs across Europe to save five billion euros (6.6 billion
dollars) by 2010.


The initiative is fiercely contested by trade unions in France
who have staged several strikes and demonstrations and have also
threatened to disrupt production if their demands are not met.


German workers have been less active due to the perception that
job losses are to fall more heavily in France than in Germany.


Airbus is controlled by Franco-German interests through parent
company EADS, a European aerospace group.

