

The euro climbed against the dollar on Wednesday after a survey
by the Institute of Supply Management showed slower-than-expected
growth in the US service sector in March.


The euro rose to 1.3368 dollars in late European trading, from
1.3329 dollars late in New York on Tuesday.


The dollar fell to 118.73 yen in European trade, compared with
118.89 late on Tuesday.


The ISM non-manufacturing index fell to 52.4 in March, down from
54.3 in February, while analysts had expected a reading of 54.7.
A reading above 50 percent signifies expansion.


"There's been a rash of disappointing US data this afternoon
which has put pressure on the dollar," said Mitul Kotecha, head
of forex strategy at Calyon.


"The data also gives us a bit of a clue for Friday's jobs report
and it's pointing towards the downside," he added, referring to a
key jobs report by the US Labor Department on Friday.


Other data showed US factory orders rose 1.0 percent in February
after falling a revised 5.7 percent in the previous month.
Economists had expected new orders to rise 1.9 percent in
February.


And finally, payroll services group ADP said the US economy added
106,000 private sector jobs in March compared to market
expectations of 119,000.


The data was expected to raise concerns of a softening in the US
economy and expectations that the Federal Reserve could start
looking to cut interest rates.


The euro was boosted by data that showed growth in the service
sector of the 13 countries that share the European single
currency remained at a high level in March, despite a loss of
steam last month.


The eurozone purchasing managers index (PMI) for the service
sector, compiled by the research group NTC Economics, slipped
marginally to 57.4 points in March from 57.5 in February.


Private economists had forecast an increase to 57.6 points.


Despite the lower level of activity, the vast service sector
continued to show resilience with the 45th consecutive month of
growth, as indicated by a figure over 50.


"Overall, this survey highlights continued strength in the euro
service sector with a tightening labour market and rising
prices," said Audrey Childe-Freeman, economist for the Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce.


She added that the data was consistent with there being at least
one more rate hike from the European Central Bank.


Elsewhere, the yen struggled to recover as players continued to
take advantage of Japan's low interest rates to raise funds to
invest overseas, dealers said.


In so-called carry trades, investors buy currency from countries
with low interest rates, such as Japan, in order to invest in
assets in countries with higher interest rates, such as Britain
or Australia.


Typically, carry trades are detrimental for low-yielding
currencies such as the yen and beneficial for higher yielding
units.


Pressure on the yen eased somewhat after Australia's central bank
left interest rates on hold, despite market speculation of a rate
hike that had lifted the Australian dollar to a 10-year high
against the US unit.


The euro was changing hands at 1.3368 dollars, against 1.3329
dollars on Tuesday, 158.63 yen (158.50), 0.6764 pounds (0.6752)
and 1.6295 Swiss francs (1.6297).


The dollar stood at 118.73 yen (118.89) and 1.2188 Swiss francs
(1.2224).


The pound was being traded at 1.9765 dollars (1.9738).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold advanced to
672.25 dollars per ounce, from 664.25 dollars late on Tuesday.

