

US stocks closed with modest gains Wednesday as news that Iran
was to free 15 British sailors helped offset soft economic news.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average drifted up 19.75 points (0.16
percent) to 12,530.05 while the Nasdaq composite added 8.36
points (0.34 percent) to 2,458.69.


The Standard and Poor's 500 broad-market index edged up 1.60
points (0.11 percent) to 1,439.37.


The market was digesting a big rally in the prior session that
stemmed in part from hopes of an end to the two-week-old Iran-
Britain crisis and the announcement Wednesday in Tehran helped
keep sentiment upbeat.


The "good news from Iran helped the market overcome two weaker-
than-expected economic reports," said Al Goldman, chief market
strategist at AG Edwards.


On the economic front, the Institute of Supply Management said
its survey of the vast US services sector resulted in a non-
manufacturing index of 52.4 percent from 54.3 percent a month
earlier, suggesting slowing growth.


The figure was weaker than the 54.7 percent expected by Wall
Street but ahead of the 50 percent which signifies expansion.


"Even though the non-manufacturing ISM index is still not at
worrisome levels, that does not change the fact that the business
sector is looking noticeably weaker than it was only a few months
ago. And, the trend is definitely troubling," said Marc Levesque
at TD Securities.


Meanwhile the Commerce Department said US factory orders rose one
percent in February after a 5.7 percent drop a month earlier.
That was below market forecasts of a 1.9 percent rebound.


Fred Dickson, market strategist at DA Davidson, said he expected
stocks to hold in a relatively narrow range, with an upward bias.


"We do expect the stock market to consolidate recent gains then
attempt to move up further ahead of earnings season," he said.


"There is simply too much money sitting on the sidelines that
needs to be invested ...  Although we expect a decent earnings
reporting season, we believe that if the upcoming earnings season
proves to be slightly disappointing, investors with lots of cash
sit ready to pounce on bargains as they emerge from anxious
sellers following the earnings announcements."


Among stocks in focus, Monsanto climbed 1.79 dollars or 3.2
percent to 57.79 as the world's largest developer of genetically
modified crops reported stronger- than-expected profits on record
corn plantings.


Microsoft increased 63 cents to 28.50 on favorable comments from
analysts about the financial impact of its new Windows Vista
operating system.


NYSE Euronext fell 3.45 dollars to 97.55 as the transatlantic
stock market operator made its trading debut after a merger of
the New York and European exchanges.


ConocoPhillips fell 10 cents to 67.74 as the US oil giant said
its global production would be below that of the fourth quarter
as a result of OPEC output cuts.


Bonds firmed. The yield on the 10-year US Treasury bond dropped
to 4.652 percent from 4.664 percent Tuesday and that on the
30-year bond eased to 4.845 percent against 4.846 percent. Bond
yields and prices move in opposite directions.

