

China will allow foreigners involved in legal challenges to
intellectual property rights violations to attend the trials as
part of efforts to improve transparency, state media reported.


"Representatives from foreign governments and international
organisations will be allowed to attend IPR trials if they wish,"
the Xinhua news agency reported late Wednesday, citing an
official with the copyright authorities.


China will also publicise important trial information through the
media, the report said, citing the State Office of Intellectual
Property Protection's plan.


No timetable for implementation of the plan was provided.


Over the past few years, diplomatic envoys and representatives of
foreign companies involved in IPR disputes have been allowed to
attend trials in coastal regions such as the southern Guangdong
province and Shanghai as test cases, the report said.


"It works pretty well," the report said, citing an unnamed an
official from the Supreme People's Court.


Under pressure from the United States and the European Union,
China has made repeated pledges to crack down on piracy
violations, a perennial bone of contention between the Asian
nation and its trading partners.


However they still say China has not done nearly enough in terms
of improving transparency in the drafting and implementation of
piracy laws and regulations.


Foreign firms have complained that Chinese companies are rarely
put before the courts for piracy violations and the few that are,
escape with very minor penalties.


China's courts settled just 932 piracy cases from 2002 to 2006,
although the number is rising each year, according to the Xinhua
report.


China produces the bulk of the world's counterfeit products, with
the most high- profile items including pirated music and movies,
as well as fake brand-name goods.

