

Asia Pulp and Paper, one of the world's largest paper companies,
said Thursday it had launched a new mega project in China even as
it comes under government investigation for illegal logging.


APP, owned by the Indonesian conglomerate Sinar Mas, will invest
a total of 13.6 billion yuan (1.8 billion dollars) in the project
in the southern island province of Hainan, Liu Xiaoling, a
company executive told AFP.


The annual production capacity of the project, launched at the
company's eucalyptus wood fiber pulp production facility in
Hainan, will be 1.6 million tonnes and is planned to come on
stream in 2009, she added.


The company's annual production output in China currently stands
at more than five million tonnes, according to its website.


Meanwhile, the official China Daily reported Thursday that the
company was facing a government investigation after being accused
by environmental group Greenpeace of illegally logging primary
forest on the island.


Greenpeace said the the company had illegally cleared primary
forest to build roads and plant a "large area of eucalyptus pulp
and paper forest" in a nature reserve in Hainan.


"Any actions that destroy the ecosystem and bio-diversity are not
permitted and will be firmly punished," said Jin Zhicheng, an
official with the State Forestry Administration, according to the
China Daily.


Jin said the Hainan provincial forestry bureau had been
instructed to investigate the case but there had not been any
results yet.


In a newsletter posted on its website, the company said the
accusations were "definitely not true."


It said local authorities in Hainan visited its forestation area
in 2006 and found the company had neither planted any fast-
growing trees in the protected region nor felled any primary
forest for the plantation.

