

US House Speaker Nancy Pelosi met King Abdullah Wednesday after
arriving in key regional ally Saudi Arabia where she was due to
visit the kingdom's all-male Shura (consultative) Council.


Pelosi, who arrived in Riyadh from Syria on the latest leg of a
controversial Middle East tour, met with the Saudi monarch at his
ranch in Janadriyah, some 40 kilometres (25 miles) northeast of
the capital, the official SPA news agency reported.


It did not give details about the talks, which were followed by
dinner.


The leading US Democrat had earlier been greeted in Riyadh by the
Saudi ambassador to the United States, Adel al-Jubair.


She was due to meet on Thursday with members of the Shura
Council, a 150-strong advisory body appointed by the king.


Pelosi, who is expected to be received by speaker Saleh bin
Humaid, will not address a plenary session of the council as some
foreign leaders have done over the past year, but will have lunch
with a group of members.


The council does not include any women, who are subjected to a
host of restrictions in conservative Muslim Saudi Arabia.


But Mohammad Ibrahim al-Hulwah, who sits on the council's foreign
affairs committee and Saudi-US friendship committee, told AFP
that some female members of European and other parliaments had
visited the council before.


Pelosi met in Syria with President Bashar al-Assad and was
criticised by US President George W. Bush for sending "mixed
signals" that harmed his administration's efforts to isolate
Assad's regime over its alleged support for terrorism and
accusations of meddling in Iraq and Lebanon.


Her meeting with King Abdullah came one week after he slammed US
control of Iraq, describing it as "an illegitimate foreign
occupation."

