

South Korea's free trade agreement with the United States will
make its economy more competitive and strengthen its
international creditworthiness, a leading ratings agency said
Thursday.


Bilateral trade worth 78 billion dollars last year should expand
significantly if the pact is ratified, Moody's Investors Service
said in a statement.


"Korea will likely receive advantageous access to the US market
over its regional trade competitors -- Japan, Taiwan and even
mainland China -- in some key sectors," vice president Thomas J.
Byrne was quoted as saying.


Korea was the only Northeast Asian country to seize the
opportunity to negotiate an FTA before the White House's fast
track trade authority expires on July 1, the statement said,
predicting that Congress is unlikely to renew that authority.


There would also be long-terms gains in competitiveness and
productivity among economic sectors currently less open to trade
-- not just in manufacturing industries but more importantly, in
the services sectors and even in agriculture.


Moody's said the deal should also help allay concerns that South
Korea is becoming less friendly to foreign investment.


"A successful adoption of the KORUS FTA would support a
favourable outlook on South Korea's long-term macroeconomic
prospects."


Moody's forecast that South Korea's legislature will approve the
pact, especially since the politically sensitive rice crop was
excluded, but that getting it through the US Congress would be
tougher.


The US warned Wednesday the deal will not go ahead unless Seoul
sticks to a verbal promise to lift non-tariff barriers on beef.


Byrne said chances for approval were clouded by the rise of anti-
globalisation sentiment in Congress, by the difficulties in
passing recent FTAs and by increasing strains in the relationship
between legislators and the White House.

