

The "iron rice bowls" enjoyed by South Korean public employees --
a reference to job security regardless of work performance -- are
starting to crack.


Seoul's metropolitan government has surveyed all its 10,000
employees and listed 102 who will be reassigned to menial tasks
or social service as punishment for poor job performance,
officials said Thursday.


One of them kept his phone off the hook and busied himself with
private work all day long. Another, a security guard, spent his
work hours watching TV or snoozing on the sofa.


Another official was listed for drinking on the job and hurling
abuse at female clerks.


Nine of those listed are senior officials and the rest are rank-
and-file employees. They will be assigned to menial work such as
surveying traffic or checking street signs, or given social
welfare tasks.


Their performance will be assessed after six months and they will
either return to their old jobs, receive a reprimand or be
sacked.


"I can feel the working atmosphere has changed drastically.
Tension is felt in the air but this tension is healthy," said Ma
Chae-Sook, who heads the city government's personnel
administration team.


"We hope this campaign will help shed some negative images about
government employees and give us a chance to be re-evaluated as
hard-working public servants rather than iron rice bowls," she
told AFP.


The unprecedented campaign was introduced by Seoul mayor Oh Se-
Hoon to improve productivity. But the workers' union has
threatened to file complaints with the National Labour Commission
and even seek the mayor's impeachment.

