

Ailing Argentine football hero Diego Maradona was continuing to
improve from hepatitis brought on by alcohol abuse, one week
after being hospitalised, a Guemes Clinic source said on
Wednesday.


The 46-year-old "is maintaining good progress regarding the toxic
alcohol hepatitis and is continuing to take the prescribed
psychoactive drugs", the source at the private clinic said.


The former footballer, kept largely under sedation, has had "a
few moments of agitation from alcoholic abstinence which have
been reduced over the last 24 hours".


During the day, Maradona woke up "three or four times" and
demanded the presence of his personal doctor, Alfredo Cahe, to
whom he told he wanted to leave the clinic.


According to another clinic source, Maradona has not been left
with family members for the last two nights.


"The goal is that he rest and that he doesn't change and doesn't
become nervous with his loved ones," said the source, quoted by
the Telam news agency.


Maradona's personal doctor said on Monday that the former Boca
Juniors, Barcelona and Napoli star would have to stay two weeks
in bed.


Maradona has been called one of the greatest players of the last
century but his career on and off the pitch has been marred by
repeated drug and alcohol abuse. He retired from professional
football in 1997.


He has suffered from chronic hepatitis since he contracted
hepatitis B in 1991, while he played for Barcelona.


Maradona, who suffered a heart attack in 2004 following a cocaine
overdose, was rushed to the hospital from his parents' house last
week with unknown symptoms.


Days before that, Cahe had said Maradona might leave for
Switzerland for treatment after his weight had again ballooned.

