

The European Commission will force Microsoft to hand over what
the US software giant claims is sensitive and valuable technical
information about its Windows operating system for almost no
compensation, the Financial Times reported Wednesday, citing a
confidential document.


The world's biggest software maker is required to license the
technical information to competing groups under the terms of the
European Commission's antitrust ruling issued three years ago,
the newspaper said.


The Commission last month accused Microsoft of demanding
excessive royalties from licences. Microsoft wants as much as
5.95 percent of companies' server revenues to license the
information.


But the FT said the confidential statement of objections from the
Commission "makes clear that Microsoft will at best be allowed to
levy a tiny fraction of the royalties it is demanding."


"Brussels hopes the order will allow rivals to design server
software that runs more smoothly with Windows," the newspaper
said.


The FT said three Microsoft rivals -- IBM, Sun and Oracle -- have
reviewed the group's pricing scheme and concluded its price
demands are excessive.


"The prices charged by Microsoft are prohibitive and would not
allow them to develop products that would be viable from a
business perspective," it quoted the Commission charge sheet as
saying.


A Microsoft spokesman told the FT: "Microsoft will respond to the
latest statement of objections in full by April 23. We believe we
are in compliance with the March 2004 decision and that the terms
on which we have made the protocols available are reasonable and
non-discriminatory."


The Commission declined to comment, the newspaper said.

