

Greenpeace activists Friday unloaded a truck of maize outside the
Paris headquarters of French presidential candidate Nicolas
Sarkozy, urging him to back a moratorium on genetically-modified
crops.


The environmental group told AFP it targeted Sarkozy, head of the
right-wing ruling UMP party, because he was "the only candidate
in the presidential election who has not backed a moratorium on
open-field GM crops."


Fourteen protestors were arrested for holding an unauthorised
demonstration and briefly held for questioning, Paris police
said.


Sarkozy's Socialist rival Segolene Royal has promised an
immediate moratorium on GM crops -- opposed by a majority of the
French public -- if she is elected in the April-May vote.


The centrist Francois Bayrou, in third place in the polls, has
also said he backs a moratorium to allow for a national
scientific debate on the question.


France's Green Party campaigns actively against GM crops, while
the farmer- activist Jose Bove has served several jail sentences
for ripping them up.


Sarkozy has said he is "sceptical about the real benefits of
GMOs" but that open-field crop trials should continue for
research purposes, to keep open the option of using GM crops
"once all safety conditions have been met."


Opponents of the crops argue that their health and environmental
impact is not yet fully understood, and warn of a risk of pollen
contamination to conventional and organic farm produce.


According to French government figures, 23.19 hectares (57 acres)
of open-field crops were cultivated for research purposes in
2005.


GM maize is the only commercial GM crop authorised in France,
with some 500 hectares (1,235 acres) declared by farmers in 2005
compared to three million hectares for conventional maize.

