

Nissan chief executive Carlos Ghosn, Japan's breakthrough foreign
manager, will take charge of its finances in a reshuffle as the
automaker prepares to report its first earnings drop on his
watch, officials said Friday.


Ghosn, who juggles his time with leading France's Renault, will
give up the helm of Nissan's management committee for the
Americas.


In exchange, he will take over supervision of the company's
treasury department from Toshiyuki Shiga, Nissan's number-two,
the company said.


"We are at a big milestone timewise, therefore Carlos Ghosn now
will re- concentrate on the management of Nissan Motor," said
Hitoshi Kawaguchi, senior vice president for human resources.


"We are trying to reinforce the management of the company and to
be ready for fiscal 2007," he said.


The globetrotting Ghosn, a Brazilian-born Frenchman of Lebanese
origin, took charge of Nissan in 1999 and turned Japan's second-
largest automaker around from near bankruptcy to robust profits.


Ghosn was the first foreigner to head a major Japanese company
and won over a loyal fan base for his quick results and strong
work ethic.


But Nissan expects its net profits to slip in the current fiscal
year to March just ending for the first time since Ghosn took
over, in what its one-time saviour has described as a
"performance crisis."


"The priority for our new management team is to act decisively on
the multiple challenges facing Nissan and to boost our overall
performance in 2007," Ghosn said in a brief statement.


The setback at Nissan comes as rivals Toyota and Honda continue
to make great strides in the United States with their fuel
efficient vehicles. Nissan has been slower to embrace gas-
electric hybrid vehicles.


Ghosn in 2005 also took the helm at Renault, which owns 44
percent of Nissan, meaning he divides his time between Europe,
Japan and the United States.


"Mr Ghosn's energy and fitness are two or three times those of an
ordinary man," Kawaguchi said.


Shiga, the chief operating officer who was given more
responsibility after Ghosn branched out, will also quit as head
of a management committee for general overseas markets.


Company officials said the changes would give Shiga more time to
devote to turning around Nissan's lacklustre performance in its
domestic market.


Shiga "will be concentrating on Japanese business and Japanese
operations where there is a big change in market circumstances.
We have many challenges in Japan," Kawaguchi said.


Goldman Sachs auto analyst Kunihiko Shiohara called the reshuffle
"a declaration of Nissan's determination to implement its revival
plan.


"If you take the announcement at face value, it is aimed at
narrowing down each management person's area of responsibility so
that they can do what they have to do to improve the company's
performance," Shiohara said.


Nissan linked Ghosn's move to the completion of the relocation of
the North American headquarters from California to Nashville,
Tennessee.


With the end of his role leading the US committee, Ghosn "will
have more time on a monthly basis, which was previously devoted
to attending the committee meetings both in person or by video
conference," said Simon Sproule, Nissan's vice president for
global communications.


His allocation of time between Nissan and Renault "remains at
50-50 on an average basis over the course of the year," Sproule
said.


Hiroto Saikawa, the executive vice president for purchasing, will
take over from Ghosn as chairman for the Americas management
committee.


On the general overseas markets, Shiga will be replaced by Colin
Dodge, now a senior vice president at Nissan Europe.

