

Indian top petrochemicals maker Reliance Industries Ltd is close
to signing a deal with US chemical giant Dow Chemical for a joint
venture valued at about 20 billion dollars, reports said Friday.


Dow Chemical is planning to hive off its basic chemicals and
plastics division into a separate company after being hit by
rising costs of feedstock and raw material in the West, the Times
of India newspaper said.


The combined valuation for these businesses, which contributed
about 35 percent to Dow's 49 billion dollar turnover last year,
is about 20 billion dollars, the newspaper said, citing unnamed
company sources.


A Reliance spokesman denied that a deal was in the offing while a
Dow spokesman told media in the United States that it was not the
company's policy to comment on speculation.


The Times of India said that after the Dow demerger, Reliance
would pick up a 59 percent stake in the company for about 12
billion dollars while Dow Chemical would hold the remaining 41
percent stake, valued at about eight billion dollars.


A deal would mean that Dow could unlock more value for its basic
chemicals and plastic businesses, it added.


Reliance, controlled by the powerful tycoon Mukesh Ambani, would
gain from improved technology and a global client base, which
could catapult India's largest private company into the second
largest petrochemical company in the world, the reports said.


The plan by Reliance Industries, India's biggest listed company,
would be to supply raw materials from low-cost production bases
like its Jamnagar refinery to Dow's production bases in the West
where higher costs are eating into profits, the newspaper said.

