

India's Suzlon Energy, the fifth-largest wind energy firm in the
world, is likely to hike its offer to buy German wind-turbine
builder REpower to 1.7 billion dollars, a report said Friday.


The new bid, worth nearly 160 euros (212 dollars) per share
compared with its previous 126 euros, would be in response to a
counter offer Thursday of 140 euros by French rival Areva that
valued REpower at 1.5 billion dollars, India's Economic Times
said.


The Indian wind turbine manufacturer, which has a global market
share of six percent, is in talks with a consortium of banks led
by ABN Amro to discuss revising its "friendly" offer, the
newspaper said.


The French nuclear technology company Areva, which has owned 30
percent of REpower since 2005, made its "friendly" offer for
REpower in January.


Areva's offer is at a premium of 33 percent to its initial bid of
105 euros per share that had valued the German company at 850
million euros (1.1 billion dollars), the newspaper said.


"We will respond to Areva's counter-offer after getting complete
information," Suzlon Energy chairman and managing director Tulsi
Tanti was quoted as saying by the newspaper.


"The company is keen on the European market where REpower has a
strong visibility," the Economic Times quoted an unnamed source
as saying.


"Moreover REpower is expanding its base in overseas markets such
as Japan, China and Australia.


Suzlon already has a dominant presence in the Indian market and
has been expanding aggressively abroad with four-fifths of orders
now coming overseas.


It joined forces last month with Martifer, a unit of Portugal's
biggest builder, Mota Engil, to bid for REpower. Martifer has a
more than 25 percent stake in REpower and is its second-largest
shareholder.


REpower is Germany's third-largest maker of wind power equipment
behind Vestas Wind Systems and Enercon. In Germany, it holds a 10
percent market share.

