

Pakistani riot police fired tear gas and arrested a top Islamist
leader Friday amid protests in Islamabad against the sacking of
the country's top judge, AFP reporters and witnesses said.


Some 500 lawyers, political leaders and hardline Islamists were
gathered outside the Supreme Court building despite a blockade by
police, the reporters said.


Chief Justice Iftikhar Mohammad Chaudhry is due to attend a
hearing at the court later in the day into misconduct charges
laid by Pakistan President Pervez Musharraf a week ago.


Police seized Qazi Hussain Ahmed, the president of Pakistan's
main alliance of religious parties, the Muttahida Majlis-e-Amal
(MMA) or United Action Front, after he tried to break through a
security cordon, witnesses said.


He tried to resist arrest but was placed into an official jeep.
However the vehicle could not drive out through the crowd, they
said.


Another eight Islamist activists were also arrested, officials
said.


Other protesters ran from billowing clouds of tear gas across a
patch of open ground just outside the security cordon and next to
the AFP bureau in the capital.


Ahmed had earlier led a session of Friday prayers in front of
parliament lodges.


Police also baton-charged 50 lawyers and political activists who
were shouting anti-Musharraf slogans to push them back from a
road outside the nearby Supreme Court building, an AFP reporter
said.


They shouted "Go Musharraf, go" and "Shame, shame" when security
vehicles passed by.


"This is the begining of the end of president Musharraf, his
cronies and collaborators," said Khwaja Asif, a senior leader of
former premier Nawaz Sharif's Pakistan Muslim League party.


The leader of the secular Awami National Party, Asfandyar Wali,
said: "I hope good sense will prevail. The order against the
chief justice must be withdrawn. This is the only honourable way
out."

