

India's inflation jumped for a second straight week to 6.46
percent, official data showed on Friday, piling pressure on the
government which has faced fierce criticism over soaring prices.


The wholesale price index, India's most closely watched cost-of-
living monitor, showed inflation rose nearly four-tenths of a
percentage point to 6.46 percent for the week ended March 3 from
6.10 percent the previous week.


The ruling Congress party has been making strong efforts to curb
inflation which hit a more than two-year high of 6.73 percent in
early February.


Subduing inflation has become an increasingly urgent priority for
Congress after rising prices were cited by analysts as key
factors in its defeat in two state elections last month.


Next month, the Congress party faces a key election in
politically pivotal Uttar Pradesh, India's most populous state,
that is seen as a dress rehearsal for parliamentary elections
which are at most two years away.


Inflation is still significantly above the central bank's target
range of 5.0 percent to 5.5 percent.


Earlier this week, the Reserve Bank of India said it would "take
all possible monetary actions" to curb inflation.


The central bank "will respond swiftly to bring down inflation,"
RBI deputy governor Rakesh Mohan said, without detailing what
measures it might take.


The RBI has been tightening monetary policy since late 2004 to
rein in prices but has recently accelerated the pace, using a
variety of tools such as draining excess cash from the banking
system to clamp down on surging credit and liquidity growth.


Credit is growing by an annual 30 percent while money supply is
expanding by about 20 percent.


It also hiked an important short-term lending rate two months
ago.


Late last month, the government released an inflation-fighting
budget that cut import duties on a variety of goods to ease
prices and sought to boost agricultural output in a bid to close
a gap between demand and suppply.

