

Afghan Foreign Minister Rangeen Dadfar Spanta urged Germany not
to heed ultimatums from radical Islamist groups to withdraw its
troops from Afghanistan, in an interview published on Friday.


"We believe that Germany and the international community should
not bow to terrorist threats," Spanta told the German regional
daily Neue Osnabruecker Zeitung.


"The international community dare not allow itself to be
blackmailed by terrorists. This would pose a threat to the
freedom of millions of Afghans," he said.


Spanta also called for Germany and its European Union partners to
extend their training of the Afghan police and army, saying: "The
state of the security forces is a serious problem."


Two Islamist groups demanded last weekend that Berlin withdraw
its 2,750 soldiers serving in the NATO-led International Security
Assistance Force in northern Afghanistan.


A group linked to Al-Qaeda called The Voice of the Caliphate
posted an Internet warning that Austria and Germany "have
provoked those whom you call terrorists to target you" by
deploying troops in Afghanistan.


In a second message, another militant Islamist group warned that
it would execute a German woman and her son who are being held
hostage in Iraq unless Berlin withdraws its troops from
Afghanistan.


The German government has said it will not bow to the threats,
which come as it prepares to send six Tornado jets to Afghanistan
to carry out reconnaissance missions for NATO troops battling the
Taliban.


Security sources said this week that they believe Germany faces
an increased risk of terrorist attacks following the threats.

