

The Earth has experienced its warmest December-February since
records began 128 years ago, a US said in a report which has
added fire to global warming concerns.


A record warm January worldwide pushed average temperatures to
1.3 degrees Fahrenheit (0.72 degrees Celsius) above normal for
the 20th century, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration said.


It was the highest average temperature for the period since
records began in 1880, the NOAA, said in its report released on
Thursday.


A UN panel said last month that global warming was almost
certainly caused by human activity and several governments and
international bodies have sounded the alarm over the need to cut
carbon emissions.


Europe has had its hottest winter on record and European experts
say the spring and summer are also likely to be the warmest ever.


The El Nino phenomenon, a periodic warming of surface ocean
waters in the eastern Pacific, contributed to the chart-busting
combined global land and ocean surface temperature, the NOAA
said.


But in February ocean temperatures in the central equatorial
Pacific cooled more than 0.5 degrees F/0.3 degrees C and were
near average for the month.


Nevertheless, the ocean-surface temperature in the period tied
for second warmest on record, the agency said, just 0.1 degree
Fahrenheit (0.06 degrees Celsius) cooler than the record
established during the very strong El Nino episode of 1997-1998.


The NOAA scientists pointed to a steady rise in temperatures in
recent decades.


During the past century, global surface temperatures have
increased at a rate near 0.11 degrees F (0.06 degrees C) per
decade.


"But the rate of increase has been three times larger since 1976,
or 0.32 degrees F (0.18 degrees C) per decade, with some of the
largest temperature increases occurring in the high latitudes of
the Northern Hemisphere," they said.


For the United States alone, the December 2006-February 2007
winter season had an overall temperature that was close to
average, while December was the 11th warmest on record.


The UN's Intergovernment Panel on Climate Change said last month
that human activity was almost certain to blame for global
warming and warned that the Earth's average surface temperature
could rise between 1.1 and 6.4 degrees C by 2100.


Fossil fuel pollution will raise temperatures this century,
worsen floods, droughts and hurricanes, melt polar ice and damage
the climate system for a thousand years to come, the UN's top
panel on climate change said.


Experts say that if global warming trends continue, up to a third
of the world's highest glaciers could melt away by 2050 and half
will disappear by 2090.


The new sense of urgency comes with the Kyoto treaty, the world's
first serious attempt to combat the problem, set to expire in
2012.


US President George W. Bush refused to adopt Kyoto, which
excluded China, India and other big emerging economies.


The NOAA, an agency of the US Commerce Department, said it was
working with its federal partners, more than 60 countries and the
European Commission to develop a global monitoring network "that
is as integrated as the planet it observes, predicts and
protects."


Climatologists and weather forecasters across Europe have warned
that record warm weather is likely to continue through the
spring.


"The average temperature for the three months of spring (March,
April, May) will be above normal," said French climatologist
Michel Schneider, though he did not rule out the possibility of a
cold snap or two.

