

The dollar plumbed a three-month low against the euro on Friday
after comments by former Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan
added to jitters about the US economic outlook, dealers said.


Foreign exchange traders were also looking ahead to US consumer
price inflation data for February due Friday, and next week's
interest rate calls from the US Federal Reserve and the Bank of
Japan.


The euro climbed to 1.3323 dollars in early European trading on
Friday, from 1.3236 dollars late in New York on Thursday, after
earlier hitting 1.3334 dollars -- which was the highest level
since December 8, 2006.


The dollar fell to 116.62 yen, from 117.48 yen late on Thursday.
The price of gold rose slightly.


"The dollar has been heavy, sold down against the euro and also
weak against the yen," said Shigeru Nakane, senior client manager
at Resona Bank.


"Stock markets are returning to normal after the recent panicky
sell-off around the world but the rebound has been moderate and
not stable. That's also keeping investors from buying up the
dollar," he added.


Markets reacted nervously to the latest remarks from Greenspan,
who told a conference in Florida that US home loan problems could
spill over into the wider economy, but that there was no evidence
of it yet.


With a long US property boom now fading into memory, mortgage
delinquencies and defaults are on the rise, especially at the
lower or "sub-prime" level among people with poor credit scores
and those who borrowed beyond their means.


"The dollar has had a very strong correlation with risk appetite
over recent years, with lower risk appetite sending the dollar
higher and vice-versa," said Mitul Kotecha, head of global
foreign exchange research at Calyon.


"However, its important to note that the current bout of risk
aversion is very US-centric, being attributable to fears about
the US sub-prime mortgage market and is therefore much less
likely to play positively for the dollar."


The euro was changing hands at 1.3323 dollars, against 1.3236
dollars on Thursday, 155.38 yen (155.51), 0.6848 pounds (0.6835)
and 1.6061 Swiss francs (1.6110).


The dollar stood at 116.62 yen (117.48) and 1.2055 Swiss francs
(1.2171).


The pound was being traded at 1.9458 dollars (1.9360).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold rose to 651.20
dollars per ounce, from 648.50 dollars late on Thursday.

