

Hong Kong share prices face another round of volatile trade next
week on persistent concerns about problems in the US housing
market and ahead of a US central bank meeting, dealers said
Friday.


They said a raft of 2006 earnings announcements from several blue
chips companies next week, including China Mobile, PetroChina,
Cheung Kong Holdings and Hutchison Whampoa, will also weigh on
sentiment.


"Next week, you can expect to see a see-saw trade because several
blue chips companies are reporting their earnings," said Castor
Pang, strategist at Sun Hung Kai Financial Group.


"Some are expecting good results but some may not be so good," he
said.


Pang said index heavyweight China Mobile, the country's largest
mobile phone operator, is expected to post positive earnings and
will continue to lead the market next week.


Cheung Kong, owned by tycoon Li Ka-shing, may not report an
outstanding performance due to lower profits from property sales
while unit Hutchison Whampoa may suffer from having only one or
two asset disposals last year, he said.


Pang said investors will closely watch the Federal Reserve
monetary policy meeting that ends Wednesday and figures for US
existing home sales for February to gauge the state of the
economy and outlook for the troubled housing market.


"If the figures are better than forecast, that would provide
support for Wall Street. Otherwise, poor figures would lead to
negative views on the outlook of the property market there," Pang
said.


"This could have an impact on Wall Street and that would drag
down the Hong Kong market," he added.


For the week to March 16, the benchmark Hang Seng Index was down
181.38 points or 0.95 percent at 18,953.50, marking the third
straight weekly fall.


Pang expects the index will trade within the 18,700-19,400 points
level next week.

