

Tanzanian President Jakaya Kikwete on Friday said his talks with
Zimbabwe's embattled leader Robert Mugabe on Thursday were a
"great success".


Kikwete flew into Harare for a day to mediate between Mugabe and
the opposition following international outcry over the arrest and
beating of opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai.


But speaking after the two men's meeting, Mugabe brushed aside
worldwide condemnation saying that his critics could "go hang".


A statement from Kikwete's office on Friday however said the
talks "were a great success".


"We have exchanged views on many issues, and agreed on the way
forward but we should be given time," the statement quoted
Kikwete as saying.


It said Kikwete briefed Mugabe on his recent tour of several
European countries where "developments in Zimbabwe dominated most
of the meetings between me and the European leaders".


Kikwete said Mugabe had briefed him on the political situtaion in
Zimbabwe including last weekend's clashes between police and
opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) leaders.


"We have agreed on the way forward, but it is between me and
Mugabe," he said.


Tanzania, along with Namibia and Lesotho, is charged with dealing
with the Zimbabwe crisis within the Southern African Development
Community (SADC).


Reaction from the 14-nation regional bloc to events in Zimbabwe
has been muted, though South Africa eased off its normal policy
of 'quiet diplomacy' by calling on the government to respect the
rights of political leaders.


Mugabe has accused the MDC of instigating the weekend violence,
while Tsvangirai was discharged from hospital Friday following
his arrest for trying to attend a banned demonstration on Sunday.

