

Six people were wounded in a powerful bomb blast in northeastern
India Friday as the region's most powerful separatist group
marked the the founding of its military wing, officials said.


The explosion on a crowded street in Assam's main city Guwahati,
believed by police to be carried out by United Liberation Front
of Asom rebels (ULFA), was the latest in a string of attacks this
week that killed two and wounded 35.


"Initial reports suggest about six people were wounded and about
a dozen motorbikes and two shops went up in flames after the
blast that took place near a parking lot," police official A. Das
told AFP of the early afternoon attack.


Two of the injured were believed to be in critical condition and
were moved to a local hospital.


The attacks this week marked a renewal of violence in the state
since the ULFA made an offer of peace talks to New Delhi, which
has not yet responded.


There were six separate explosions Thursday in different towns,
wounding 11 people, as well as the blowing up a crude oil and a
gas pipeline. One of the bombers died while setting off one of
the explosions.


On Friday, its "Army Day," the ULFA released a press statement
pledging to continue their almost three-decade old struggle for
an independent homeland.


"Let us pledge on this auspicious day to fight and achieve
independence at any cost," rebel commander-in-chief Paresh Baruah
said in a statement.


Early this year, the rebels were blamed for a string of attacks
in January that killed about 80 people, 61 of them Hindi-speaking
migrant workers in eastern Assam, viewed as a bid to ethnically
cleanse the state.


More than 10,000 people have lost their lives to insurgency in
Assam during the past two decades.

