

Japanese share prices closed down 0.69 percent Friday as
investors remained wary about a stronger yen and problems brewing
in the US housing sector, dealers said.


They said the market was cautious despite modest overnight gains
on Wall Street, with sentiment still fragile after the recent
sharp falls on global bourses and ahead of a slew of US data and
a Federal Reserve meeting next week.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's benchmark Nikkei-225 index of leading
shares fell 116.24 points to 16,744.15.


The TOPIX index of all issue on the Tokyo Stock Exchange's first
section dropped 17.12 points or 1.01 percent to 1,677.06.


Decliners beat gainers 1,320 to 329, with 81 stocks flat.


Volume rose to 2.4 billion shares from 2.3 billion on Thursday.


"Sentiment was dampened by uncertainties about the US economic
situation," said Hiroaki Hiwada, a strategist at Toyo Securities.


Hiwada said mixed US data overnight led some in the market to
speculate that a Fed interest rate cut "would not be happening
anytime soon."


US producer prices jumped by 1.3 percent in February, twice the
amount the market was forecasting.


Dealers said investors will likely remain cautious ahead of US
consumer price inflation data for February due Friday and next
week's two-day Federal Reserve monetary policy meeting.


Hiroyuki Nakai, chief strategist at Tokai Tokyo Research Center,
said that since investor attention is currently on the US housing
market, housing-related economic indicators due out next week
will be closely watched.


He said the market widely expects the Fed to keep interest rates
on hold next week but its statement at the end of the meeting
would be carefully assessed for clues to US monetary policy
direction in coming months.


Toshiba Corp rose 11 yen or 1.45 pct to 769 after the Nikkei
business daily reported, without citing any sources, that the
company plans to increase its annual dividend to 10-11 yen per
share from 6.5 yen the previous fiscal year.


Nissan Motor dropped 11 yen to 1,285 after chief executive Carlos
Ghosn said he would juggle roles to take charge of finances at
the automaker, which also confirmed plans to reduce output at two
plants due to sluggish sales in Japan.


Among other automakers, Toyota dropped 50 yen or 0.6 percent to
7,610, Honda Motor declined 60 or 1.4 percent to 4,090 and Suzuki
Motor was down 110 or 3.5 percent to 3,020.


Select consumer electronics makers were in demand. Hitachi added
seven yen or 0.8 percent to 863, Toshiba rose 11 or 1.4 percent
to 769 and Fujitsu gained four yen or 0.5 percent to 773.


On the foreign exchange market, the dollar dropped to 117.14 yen
in Tokyo afternoon deals from 117.64 yen late Thursday in New
York.


The euro rose to 1.3294 dollars from 1.3232 and to 155.73 yen
after 155.61.

