

European stock markets fell on Friday after Tokyo finished in the
red, as investors remained wary despite modest overnight gains in
New York, dealers said.


A rout on global equity markets, sparked by fears of a meltdown
in the US housing market, was checked Thursday with solid share
price gains in the United States, Europe and Asia.


However, in European deals on Friday, London's FTSE 100 of
leading companies retreated 0.54 percent to 6,100.00 points,
Frankfurt's DAX 30 slid 0.64 percent to 6,543.54 and in Paris the
CAC 40 fell 0.29 percent to 5,374.15 points.


The DJ Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone blue chip shares decreased
0.47 percent to 3,966.86 points.


The euro stood at 1.3316 dollars.


US stocks saw encouraging gains on Thursday as investors shook
off a hotter- than-expected inflation report and focused on the
market's rebound a day earlier.


Japanese share prices closed down Friday as investors were
anxious about a stronger yen and problems brewing in the US
housing market, dealers said.


In London on Friday, the commodities sector was weighed down by
lower oil prices, after OPEC cartel ministers held their crude
production at existing levels.


The sector was also hit as base metals miners reversed
Wednesday's gains on profit-taking.


Shares in British energy giant BP fell 0.83 percent to 512.20
pence and Anglo- Dutch rival Royal Dutch Shell saw its 'A' shares
fall 0.67 percent to 636 pence.


In Paris, oil and gas giant Total sank 0.34 percent to 49.15
euros.


Among the miners in London, Antofagasta dropped 1.26 percent to
148.60 pence and Anglo American shed 1.77 percent to 2,444 pence.


In US deals on Thursday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose
0.22 percent to close at 12,159.68 while the Nasdaq composite
increased 0.29 percent to 2,378.70.


The broad-market Standard and Poor's 500 added 0.37 percent to
end at 1,392.28.


The market managed to withstand a report showing US wholesale
prices unexpectedly surged 1.3 percent in February.


In Asia on Friday, Tokyo's benchmark Nikkei-225 index fell 0.69
percent to close at 16,744.15 points amid weak market sentiment
and ahead of a slew of US data and a US Federal Reserve meeting
next week.


Hong Kong's key Hang Seng Index closed flat at 18,953.50 points
after a choppy session as investors turned cautious ahead of
results announcements from blue chip heavyweights next week,
dealers said.

