

Bangladesh's new government could scrap its plan for voter
identity cards in favour of a voter list with photographs to
avoid delaying a long-awaited national election, an official said
Friday.


The military-backed temporary government, in place since
emergency rule was imposed in January, had been considering the
introduction of voter identity cards as part of reforms aimed at
holding credible polls.


But critics warned that the length of time needed to produce the
cards could see the country of 144 million people without a
democratically elected government for at least a year.


"The election commission is planning to make a voter list with
photographs instead of voter identity cards," said Abdur Rashid,
of the election commission.


"(A) Voter list with photographs will reduce the cost and timing
and stop duplicate voters," he said, adding the government had
yet to make a final decision on the matter.


The last elections, which had been slated for January 22, were
cancelled by president Iajuddin Ahmed following violent protests
over opposition allegations the outgoing Bangladesh Nationalist
Party (BNP) had sought to rig the ballot.


Ahmed also stepped down as the head of the previous caretaker
government and imposed the emergency.


The opposition Awami League had alleged that pro-BNP election
commission officials had drawn up a voter list with at least 14
million fake names.


Other reforms, aimed at cleaning up Bangladesh's notoriously
corrupt politics, include a major anti-corruption drive that has
seen at least 45 prominent figures detained on graft allegations.


The new caretaker government is headed by former central bank
governor Fahruddin Ahmed.

