

The UN refugee agency said Friday that it was deeply disturbed by
a raid by Iraqi forces on a Palestinian area of Baghdad,
following allegations of harassment of Palestinians by soldiers
or police.


At least one Palestinian, a guard at a mosque, was killed during
the raid carried out on Wedenesday under Baghdad's security plan,
according to the office of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees.


Fifty-one Palestinians were reportedly detained then released.


"UNHCR is deeply disturbed by the raid conducted by Iraqi
security forces on Wednesday," spokesman Ron Redmond told
journalists


Redmond said the violence reportedly broke out when the
Palestinians, who have complained about a lack of protection by
Iraqi security forces, tried to resist the raid.


"They said they were frightened following months of being
targeted by various groups. Several have been kidnapped, arrested
and killed," he added.


At least 41 Palestinians fled Baghad after Wednesday's raid
towards the border with Syria.


The UNHCR now estimates that about 15,000 Palestinians are left
in Iraq, compared to more than 30,000 prior to the fall of Saddam
Hussein three years ago.


"Recently, UNHCR has received reports that families of several
detained Palestinians have been forced to pay thousands of
dollars to some members of the security forces -- allegedly for
protection from torture and mutiliation of their family members
while in detention," Redmond added.


"Higher sums have reportedly been demanded to ensure their
release."


Redmond said the UN agency was taking the allegations very
seriously because of the pattern of separate complaints.


In January, Palestinian president Mohamed Abbas condemned what he
called "barbaric crimes" suffered by Palestinians in Iraq.


Palestinians living in Iraq enjoyed various privileges under
Saddam, who also gave money to the families of Palestinian
"martyrs" and suicide bombers killed in the conflict with Israel.

