

German Chancellor Angela Merkel was due to arrive here Friday for
talks with Polish leaders aimed at patching up relations between
the two central European neighbours, and to renew ties of
friendship with Polish academics.


Ahead of her visit, on which she will be accompanied by her
husband, Joachim Sauer, a University of Warsaw professor recalled
how 1980s' Poland had given the young Merkel, who is from the
former communist East Germany, her first taste of freedom.


Quantum chemistry professor Lucjan Piela met Merkel several
times, when she and Sauer attended university meetings for
chemists, organised by Polish academics.


"Back then, people from the German Democratic Republic saw Poland
as a land of freedom," Piela said.


"In East Germany, every word was monitored, while in Poland, we
said what we wanted to. That impressed them," he said.


Piela recalled one particular visit to Poland by Merkel, in June
1989, during the first free elections in Poland and just a few
months before the Berlin Wall came down.


"When Solidarity's election victory was shown on television, the
Poles were absolutely euphoric, and the Germans also felt that
something very important had just happened," he said.


But little did Piela or his chemist counterparts suspect that, in
their midst was a future chancellor of a reunited Germany.


"Back then, no one would have believed she'd ever become
chancellor," he said.


On Friday, Piela will be able to renew his ties of friendship
with Sauer and Merkel.


The German chancellor will not only meet with Poland's power
twins, President Lech and Prime Minister Jaroslaw Kaczynski, but
will also be able to visit with former colleagues from Polish
academia after she gives a lecture at Warsaw University.

