

Fringe candidates for the French presidency were in a last-minute
scramble for signatures on Friday, as the evening deadline
approached for mandatory sponsorship forms to be filed with
election monitors in Paris.


Three outside contenders -- including anti-capitalism campaigner
Jose Bove -- were tantalisingly close to the 500 sponsorship
minimum without being certain of having the required number by
the 6.00 pm. (1700 GMT) cut-off time.


The other two engaged in a desperate telephone search for
supporters were the hunters' candidate Frederic Nihous and
dissident Gaullist Nicolas Dupont-Aignan.


Under rules designed to weed out frivolous candidacies,
challengers for the French presidency must have the public
backing of 500 out of some 42,000 elected officials, including
the country's 36,500 mayors.


Sponsorship forms must be presented at the Paris offices of the
Constitutional Council, the nine-member body that supervises the
election, which will verify the signatures over the weekend and
announce an official list of candidates on Wednesday.


Ten candidates are certain of qualifying.


The four leading challengers -- according to polls -- are Nicolas
Sarkozy of the ruling centre-right, the socialist Segolene Royal,
the centrist Francois Bayrou, and the far-right leader Jean-Marie
Le Pen.


The other definite candidates are the communist Marie-George
Buffet,  Catholic nationalist Philippe de Villiers, the three
Trotskyists Gerard Schivardi, Arlette Laguiller and Olivier
Besancenot, and the Green Party's Dominique Voynet.


Le Pen, who was runner-up in 2002 with 16.86 percent of the first
round vote, said he faced great difficulties collecting the
signatures but reached the necessary 500 on Wednesday.


In 2002 16 candidates took part, a record in modern French
politics. The large number helped reduce the score of the leading
contenders and was a factor in Le Pen's shock success in making
it into the second round run-off vote.

