

The number of British children under five diagnosed with a
specific type of diabetes has risen five-fold over 20 years due
to unidentified environmental factors, a study said Friday.


Diabetes UK, the charity that funded the study at Bristol
University, also found that Type 1 diabetes had doubled in
children under the age of 15, with a 2.3 percent increase in the
number of children diagnosed every year.


The charity believes the increase is linked to environmental
factors, rather than genetics, but experts say the exact reasons
are not yet clear.


"This could either mean that we are being exposed to something
new, or that we now have reduced exposure to something that was
previously controlling our immune responses," said Professor
Polly Bingley from Bristol University.


"We now need to work to identify what these changes might be,"
she added.


Type 1 diabetes develops when the body is unable to produce any
insulin and usually appears before the age of 40.


"The evidence of a steep rise of Type 1 diabetes found in the
under-fives indicates that the peak age for diagnosis of the
condition in the UK is becoming younger," said Simon O'Neill of
Diabetes UK.


"While 10- to 14-year-olds remain the largest group for
diagnosis, the rise in cases found in children under five is
worrying."


The study looked at Oxford's population of 2.6 million people
between 1985 and 2004.


Type 1 diabetes is less common than Type 2 diabetes, where the
body cannot  make enough insulin, or when the insulin that is
produced does not work properly. In most cases Type 2 diabetes is
linked with being overweight.

