

Hong Kong share prices closed little changed Friday after a
choppy session as investors turned cautious ahead of  results
announcements from blue chip heavyweights next week, dealers
said.


The market opened lower on worries over possible economic
tightening measures in China but recovered soon on hopes of solid
earnings from top stock China Mobile and some short-covering
activity.


Another late turn, saw the market slip back as investors were
reluctant to take fresh positions ahead of the weekend and a US
central bank meeting next week.


After heavy losses earlier in the week on concerns at news of
mounting problems in the key US housing market, investors were
both cautious and anxioius to hear what the US central bank has
to say on the economic outlook.


Losses on the mainland and Tokyo bourses also weighed on
sentiment.


Hutchison Whampoa, Cheung Kong, China Mobile and PetroChina are
among the companies due to announce their 2006 results next week.


The Hang Seng Index closed down 15.94 points at 18,953.50, after
a low of 18,770.28 and a high of 19,130.10, on turnover of 43.35
billion dollars (5.56 billion US).


For the week, the Hang Seng Index was down 181.38 points or 0.95
percent, marking the third straight weekly fall.


"The market's gains were eroded in late trade ... following the
Japanese market's fall and as China's A-share markets reversed
early gains amid concerns over economic tightening measures,"
said Castor Pang, strategist at Sun Hung Kai Financial group.


Pagn said worries over the unwinding of yen carry-trades have
also been re- ignited as the Japanese currency is again showing
signs of strengthening.


Peter Lai, sales director at DBS Vickers, said sentiment was
dampened after losses in Japan and China.


"Overseas markets remain unstable, which will likely continue to
affect the local market in the near term. I expect the market to
see a correction again before it becomes stable," he said, adding
that the benchmark index may fall to the 18,300-18,400 level.


Sun Hung Kai's Pang said a heavy earnings schedule may have a
significant impact on trading.


Among the companies due to report next week, PetroChina was down
0.06 dollars at 8.66 dollars while China Mobile gained 1.15 at
69.8.


Cheung Kong gained 0.40  at 92.30 while unit Hutchison Whampoa
lost 0.25 at 72.25.


Pang said that Cheung Kong may not announce outstanding 2006
results due to lower profits from property sales while Hutchison
Whampoa's earnings may be affected as the company had only one or
two asset disposals in 2006.


Among other firms announcing results next week, Bank of China
lost 0.02 at 3.77 while its unit BOC Hong Kong was flat at 18.6.


The Hang Seng China Enterprises index finished up 17.44 points or
0.19 percent at 9,112.96.

