

Bird flu has killed a 32-year-old man in Indonesia, taking the
death toll in the nation worst hit by the disease to 65, an
official said Friday.


"The man died on Wednesday in Jakarta," said Nadhirin, a doctor
at the Bird Flu Information Centre.


Details of how he caught the disease remain unclear, he said,
although most victims have had some contact with sick or infected
birds.


A health ministry official had earlier identified the victim as a
woman who died on Wednesday.


The death is the 86th confirmed case of humans who have
contracted bird flu in Indonesia, which detected its first
sufferer in mid 2005.


In an attempt to stop the spread of the virus, the government has
banned residents in the capital from keeping poultry in their
back yards, a popular practice in the sprawling city.


The Bird Flu Information Centre said Monday that a 20-year-old
woman was critically ill with the disease and being treated in a
hospital in Surabaya, the country's second-largest city.


The virus has killed 169 people worldwide, mostly in Southeast
Asia, according to the World Health Organisation, and the global
spread of the deadly H5N1 strain is being closely tracked.


Laos confirmed its second human death from the disease on Friday,
a woman who died earlier this month, authorities there said.


Scientists say multiple strains of the disease originated in
southern China and spread elsewhere.


They fear the H5N1 strain could mutate into a form easily spread
among humans, leading to a global pandemic with the potential to
kill millions.


The fear stems from the lessons of history, as past influenza
pandemics have killed millions. One in 1918, just after the end
of World War I, killed some 20 million people worldwide.

