

Sri Lankan troops Friday shot dead a suspected Tamil Tiger rebel
suicide bomber in the northern district of Jaffna, the defence
ministry said.


Army personnel had come across the suspected guerrilla wearing a
jacket packed with explosives while manning a road block at
Savalkattu junction around Friday afternoon.


The suspect tried to trigger a blast when troops attempted to
body search him, the military said.


There was no comment from the rebels, who are fighting for an
independent state for minority Tamils from the majority Sinhalese
community since 1972.


Elsewhere in the northeastern district of Vavuniya, a soldier was
injured when Tiger rebels fired at troops manning the forward
defence line late Thursday.


The Tigers said they repulsed a military advance into the coastal
district of Manner in northwest Sri Lanka, as hundreds of
soldiers backed by artillery and rockets mounted attacks into
rebel territory.


The guerrillas said they resisted the offensive and pushed the
military back to its original positions, even as heavy long-range
attacks raged on the other side of the island in the Batticaloa
district.


There were no reports of casualties in either the Mannar or
Batticaloa fighting and there was no immediate reaction from the
military to the rebel claims.


Over 4,000 people have been killed in a new wave of fighting
since December 2005. The two sides had agreed to a truce in
February 2002, but subsequent peace talks have failed to make
progress.

