

Chinese share prices closed mixed Friday as the Shanghai market
was hit by profit-taking in the banks while Shenzhen rose on
interest in steelmakers, dealers said.


They said some profit-taking was to be expected after the
market's 7-day record- breaking run and the reverse in Shanghai
did not appear substantial.


Significantly, turnover was down sharply -- at about 16 billion
dollars after Thursday's 27 billion dollars -- suggesting
investors were content to take some money off the table ahead of
the weekend but no more than that.


Dealers said the fundamentals of strong growth and a rising yuan
remain in place and should continue to support further gains
after what has been in all a 9-day winning streak to Thursday.


The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index, which covers both A- and
B-shares, was down 13.55 points or 0.42 percent at 3,183.98,
slipping off record highs on much reduced turnover of 83.0
billion yuan (10.71 billion dollars).


The Shanghai A-share Index was down 14.47 points or 0.43 percent
at 3,346.35 on turnover of 82.68 billion yuan but the Shenzhen
A-share Index added 5.46 points or 0.64 percent at 861.78 on
turnover of 42.05 billion yuan, reversing Thursday's performance.


Dealers said there was some caution after the recent run-up, with
the market trying to anticipate when the authorities will launch
long-awaited index futures, a key instrument which initially
might increase volatility.


"The Shanghai market was under pressure from profit-taking in
banking stocks, with investors becoming cautious after the key
index's gains over the past nine trading days," said Wang Sai, an
analyst at Wanguo Consulting.


"The launch of index futures could be a bit earlier than expected
-- maybe as soon as next month -- so the interest in blue chips
will continue until then," said Wu Dazhong, an analyst at Shenyin
Wanguo Securities.


Bank of China was down 0.12 yuan or 2.12 percent at 5.55 and
Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC) fell 0.10 yuan or
1.79 percent at 5.49.


Property developers too came under pressure from profit-taking.
Goldfield Industries was down 0.44 yuan or 2.64 percent at 16.23
while China Vanke fell 0.33 yuan or 1.95 percent at 16.59.


Steelmakers were mostly in favor with Angang New Steel up 0.91
yuan or 6.66 percent at 14.57 but Tangshan Iron Steel was down
0.04 yuan or 0.47 percent at 8.40 after reporting 2006 net profit
growth of 26 percent.


China Shipping Development was up 0.62 yuan or 4.50 percent at
14.41 after its results.


The Shanghai B-share Index was up 1.05 points or 0.59 percent to
177.80 on turnover of 314.89 million US dollars and the Shenzhen
B-share Index added 0.28 points or 0.05 percent at 523.97 on
turnover of 628.75 million Hong Kong dollars (81.13 million US
dollars).

