

Sporadic mortar and artillery fire rang out in Mogadishu Friday,
as the death toll from heavy fighting sparked by an  Ethiopian
offensive rose to 27.


Five people were killed in a southern neighbourbood overnight
when two mortar shells landed on a house, residents said.


"A mortar shell landed in a house very close to mine. We rushed
to the scene to see what happened, but minutes later another
mortar shell landed in the same area," said Wardigley
neighbourhood resident Mohamed Abdullah.


A woman and her daughter who lived in the house died in the first
shelling and three neighbours who came to see what had happened
died in the second, while six people were injured, residents
said.


"The rest of the family have already fled the town but this woman
has refused to go and this is what happened," said Asha Mumin, a
relative of the dead woman.


Residents said they were expecting casualty figures to shoot up
after further body counts from Thursday's fighting that saw
Ethiopian troops, backing the Somali government, carry out their
first helicopter raids on Mogadishu since they drove out an
Islamist movement three months ago.


Fifteen civilians were killed Thursday as well as seven Ethiopian
troops, with angry residents dragging two of their bodies through
the streets.


The fighting shattered a shaky six-day ceasefire with the
powerful Hawiye clan, which has largely controlled the Somali
capital since 1991.


More than 100 people have died in Mogadishu since the start of
the year, according to an AFP count.


The United Nations said on Thursday that 57,000 people had fled
the coastal city since February, including 12,000 in the last
week alone.


A bloody power struggle that followed the 1991 ouster of dictator
Mohamed Siad Barre exploded into inter-clan warfare that has
defied more than 14 attempts to restore a functional government
in Somalia.

