

American teammate Ian Crocker has emerged as a significant threat
to Michael Phelps' ambitious target of winning a record eight
gold medals at the world swimming championships.


Phelps has dominated the championships with four gold medals and
three world records and his next assignment will be trying to
reverse his two losing world 100-metres butterly finals to
Crocker.


Three-time world record holder Crocker showed in Friday's heats
he will again be tough to toss in his pet event as he swam 51.44
seconds to take the top seeding into Friday's semi-finals.


Serbian Milorad Cavic was second-fastest in 51.70 ahead of
Phelps, who won his heat in a controlled 51.95.


"I'm fine. It's been the shortest race for me so far. I did what
I wanted to do," Phelps said. "I had a good last 50m and I expect
to take it out a bit further in the semi-final. The race gives me
a new goal."


Crocker said he wouldn't be considered the "bad guy" if he went
on to beat Phelps in the final and denied him the chance of gold
medal history.


"I think all Americans think winning for the United States is the
most important thing. I wouldn't call myself the bad guy,"
Crocker said.


"Having him behind me is not the most comfortable position to be
in, but it brings out the best in me."


Phelps gets his chance for a fifth gold medal later Friday after
America was the fastest into the 4x200m freestyle final in
7:10.99.


French star Laure Manaudou swam close to the championship record
time in clocking the fastest time into the final of the women's
800m freestyle.


Manaudou, who has already claimed the 200/400m freestyle double,
swam 8:25.65 to go into Saturday's final fastest ahead of
America's new 1500m world champion Kate Ziegler (8Z:28.11) and
Australian Kylie Palmer (8:29.36).


German Hannah Stockbauer holds the championship record of 8:23.66
set in winning the 2003 world title in Barcelona.


The world record of 8:16.22 has stood for 18 years since American
great Janet Evans' swim in Tokyo.


"I'm a little more tired than I would've liked," Ziegler said. "I
know that after the 1500m I put so much emotional energy into
that swim, I knew that I'd be tired this morning."


Australia's Libby Lenton was a surprise failure to reach the
semi-finals of the women's 50m butterfly after recording the 18th
fastest time (27.36).


It followed her below-par performance in the lead-off swim in the
4x200m freestyle relay team which finished fourth on Thursday.


Teammate Danni Miatke was the fastest qualifier in 26.34 ahead of
America's Rachel Komisarz (26.58) and Inge Dekker of the
Netherlands (26.60).


Poland's Bartosz Kizierowski edged out Australian Eamon Sullivan
for the top seeding in the semi-finals of the men's 50m
freestyle.


Kizierowski clocked 22.03 and Sullivan, a bronze medallist in
Thursday's 100m freestyle final losing by just four-hundredths of
a second, posted 22.06.


American Cullen Jones was only three-hundredths of a second away
as the third- fastest swimmer.


Zimbabwe's Kirsty Coventry was fastest into the semi-finals of
the women's 200m backstroke in 2:07.99 ahead of France's Esther
Baron (2:09.77) and American Margaret Hoezler (2:10.25).

