

Thailand's army-installed Prime Minister Surayud Chulanont denied
Friday that he had fallen out with the junta leader after
refusing to declare a state of emergency in Bangkok.


General Sonthi Boonyaratglin, the junta chief, had publicly
called on Surayud to impose emergency rule in the capital to
quell protests against the military coup last September.


But Surayud refused, saying late Thursday that the situation in
Bangkok did not merit such a drastic measure. Instead, he laid
out a plan for elections to restore democracy in December.


"There is not any rift. We held a reasonable discussion. General
Sonthi as well as the other (junta) members explained their
reasoning," Surayud told reporters.


"We reached a unanimous agreement" against declaring an
emergency, he added.


"I told Sonthi that my government will do its best to prevent the
situation from deteriorating," he said.


Surayud said the junta leader wanted to be prepared in case the
protests staged in recent weeks -- which have drawn up to 2,000
people -- continued to grow.


The protesters, who have called for the junta to step down, have
vowed to stage another rally late Friday, despite the
announcement of the December election date.


Surayud hinted that the government would consider easing bans on
activities by political parties for the first time since the
military ousted elected prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra.


"We think that political parties should have time, starting in
September, to prepare for the election," he said.


Political parties have complained that the ban on their
activities has prevented them from preparing for elections and
from joining in the process of drafting a new constitution.


A new charter is being written by a team appointed by the junta,
and is to be put to the public a referendum in September.

