

Roy Pippin, 51, was killed by lethal injection Thursday for the
deaths of two co-workers in a drug money-laundering ring, the US
state of Texas said.


Pippin claimed his innocence in his final statement: "You will
answer to your maker when God has found out that you have
executed an innocent man. May God have mercy on you."


"Go ahead, warden murder me. Jesus, take me home."


He was given a lethal cocktail of three drugs, and was pronounced
dead at 6:42 pm.


On death row, Pippin went on hunger strikes to protest the
conditions of his detention, for the final time in mid-February.


According to the prison, Pippin began eating again on Monday
after having lost 12 kilograms (25 pounds).


"No human contact. No human conversation. It is hell on earth!"
he said in 2001.


In April 1994, Pippin was working with a gang laundering drug
money, when he found that 1.6 million dollars were missing.


He and three co-defendants in the gang kidnapped two cousins
working for the gang, Elmer and Fabio Buitrago, whom he suspected
had stolen the money, according to the state of Texas.


Pippin and the other men held the cousins and two other men
captive for eight days, first in a motel, then in a warehouse
near Pippin's house. On May 4, they shot the captives, but Elmer
Buitrago escaped and was able to describe his murderer before
dying from his wounds.


In Livingston, Texas, 110 kilometers (70 miles) north of Houston,
the Polunsky prison has a special wing for men on death row. The
execution chamber is located in Huntsville, 70 kilometers (43
miles) away.


Each convict is housed in a 5.5 square-meter (60 square-foot)
cell with a tiny window and may read, write or listen to the
radio but may not watch television or participate in workshops or
religious observances and spends any recreation time alone.


Pippin is the 12th man to be executed this year in the United
States, all but one in the US state of Texas. More than 3,000 are
waiting on death row in the United States.

