

Japanese share prices closed slightly higher on Friday after an
upward revision to US economic growth which helped lift Wall
Street overnight, dealers said.


They said investors cashed in most of their early gains, turning
cautious ahead of Monday's key Tankan survey of Japanese business
sentiment after a raft of domestic data broadly met market
expectations.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
rose 23.71 points or 0.14 percent to 17,287.65.


The TOPIX index of all issues on the Tokyo Stock Exchange's first
section added 2.93 points or 0.17 percent to 1,713.61.


Gainers beat decliners 1,045 to 548, with 129 stocks flat.


Volume fell to 1.94 billion shares from 2.34 billion on Thursday.


Dealers said trading had been thin as the end of the fiscal year
at the weekend approached, especially in view of uncertainty
about the outlook for the US economy.


"The Tankan business sentiment survey will draw the market's
attention on Monday but investors are more focussed on possible
profit warnings by US companies next week and how that might
affect the US stock market," said Tsuyoshi Segawa, a strategist
at Shinko Securities.


Analysts expect next week's Tankan central bank survey to show a
modest deterioration in business confidence among Japan's major
manufacturers, mainly due to nervousness about the health of the
US economy.


Investors were mulling a mixed bag of Japanese data which showed
industrial output down 0.2 percent in February from January but
up 2.6 percent year-on- year.


The unemployment rate held steady at 4.0 percent in February
while core consumer prices were down 0.1 percent, the first
decline for 10 months.


Property related stocks were among the main gainers. Mitsui
Fudosan rose 70 yen or 2.06 percent to 3,460, Mitsubishi Estate
edged up 50 yen or 1.31 percent to 3,870, Kajima closed 10 yen or
1.69 percent higher at 602 and Obayashi climbed 13 yen or 1.74
percent to 760.


Stocks of other companies sensitive to the performance of the
domestic economy also advanced, with banks, pharmaceutical and
communications issues among the leading gainers.


Mizuho Financial closed 15,000 yen or 2.02 percent higher at
759,000, Daiichi Sankyo rose 70 yen or 1.98 percent to 3,610 and
Nippon Telegraph and Telephone added 9,000 yen or 3.37 percent to
276,000.


On the foreign exchange market, the dollar dipped to 117.87 yen
in Tokyo afternoon trade from 118.02 yen in New York late
Thursday.


The euro gained to 1.3346 dollars after 1.3331 but eased to
157.30 yen from 157.43 yen.

