

Russian environmental inspectors began checks on Friday at the
Sakhalin-1 oil and gas project operated by a subsidiary of US
company ExxonMobil, officials said.


The inspection of Sakhalin-1, operated by Exxon Neftegas, "will
begin with a study of the company's documents allowing extraction
of fossil fuels on the Sakhalin shelf and construction of the
various Sakhalin-1 sites," said the head of the environmental
inspectorate's Far East branch, Pyotr Titkov.


"The inspection of Sakhalin-1 is a planned one that was supposed
to begin last October but was postponed until spring 2007 due to
natural conditions," he said.


The inspection has prompted speculation that the project may come
under the kind of state pressure experienced at Sakhalin-2,
another flagship oil and gas development off the coast of
Sakhalin island in Russia's Far East.


Environmental complaints by the state led to British-Dutch
company Shell  losing control of Sakhalin-2 and the Russian
company Gazprom taking a controlling stake last December.


An expert at the Russian Academy of Science's Eastern Geological
Institute, Nikolai Kazakov, said that "Exxon Neftegas has the
same problems" as the Sakhalin-2 consortium.


He said that pipelines built as part of Sakhalin-1 project were
causing soil erosion, that pipe-cleaning operations had raised
the salinity of streams on the island and that there were
problems with under-sea pipelines.


Sakhalin-1 is 30-percent owned by the ExxonMobil subsidiary,
30-percent owned by Japan's Sakhalin Oil and Gas Development
Company (SODECO), 20-percent owned by India's ONGC and 20-percent
owned by subsidiaries of Russia's Rosneft.


Sakhalin-1 comprises three deposits on the island's northeast
shelf with estimated recoverable reserves of 307 million tonnes
of oil and 17.1 trillion cubic feet of natural gas (485 billion
cubic metres), according to the project's Internet site.

