

England skipper Michael Vaughan has shrugged of his team's lack
of a big-hitter at the top of the batting order at the World Cup.


England have a host of technically correct players, but none who
have threatened to set the tournament alight by taking the fight
to the opposition in the manner of Sri Lanka's  Sanath Jayasuriya
or Matthew Hayden of Australia.


"We just try to play to what we feel are our strengths. We
naturally don't have a (Sanath) Jayasuriya or (Adam) Gilchrist or
(Matthew) Hayden, but at the moment we are quite happy with the
way we are playing," said Vaughan.


"We have not been bogged down as yet in the first 15-20 overs. We
have played our natural cricket and we have done okay.


"Later on in the tournament, if we feel there is an option for
change and we need to use the first 20 overs more, there are
players in our team who we feel could do that."


England were due to open their Super Eights campaign at
Providence here on Friday against neighbours Ireland who have
reached the second round on their debut World Cup appearance.


Despite entering the Super Eights without a point having lost to
fellow qualifiers New Zealand in the opening group stage, Vaughan
said he believed the destination of the World Cup title was still
impossible to predict.


"I still think the World Cup is open, but the Australians are
looking stronger. They have played some good games and beaten a
good team in South Africa and the hosts the other day," said
Vaughan.


"So they are in good form but as soon as you get to the semi-
finals, anything can happen. That's what we are looking to do --
looking to play well in the Super Eights and give ourselves a
chance to play in the semi-finals."

