

German auto giant Volkswagen AG has scrapped plans for a tie-up
with Malaysia's ailing automaker Proton, a report said Friday.


The Straits Times, citing a senior Malaysian government official,
said VW delivered the news on Thursday to Khazanah Nasional, the
government's investment arm which is Proton's main shareholder.


"Clearly, they don't want to pour any resources into turning
Proton around," the newspaper cited the unidentified Malaysian
government official as saying.


It also quoted a Malaysian bank chief executive, who was aware of
VW's decision, as calling it "a major setback."


VW's reported pullout from talks comes after the collapse earlier
this month of negotiations with French car giant PSA Peugeot-
Citroen.


Malaysian Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi last week said
Proton was in talks with Volkswagen AG and would turn to US auto
giant General Motors if those discussions failed.


Three Malaysian automotive firms have also expressed interest in
taking a stake in the company.


The government had set a deadline of this Saturday for announcing
a partner for Proton but Malaysian Deputy Prime Minister Najib
Razak said Wednesday the the deadline might not be met.


"But it doesn't matter," he was quoted as saying by the state
Bernama news agency.


Analysts say a strategic partner is crucial to reversing the
fortunes of Proton which has seen a sharp decline in sales due to
increased competition from local and imported autos.


Malaysia has already extended the deadline for a decision once,
after saying last November it aimed to announce a partner by the
end of January.


Khazanah holds a 42.74 percent stake in Proton. State pension
fund EPF and national oil firm Petronas own 12.07 percent and
8.84 percent respectively.


The remaining 36.35 percent is held by a mix of local and foreign
companies.


In morning trade on the Kuala Lumpur bourse, Proton shares were
at 6.30 ringgit (1.82 dollars), down 0.35 ringgit or 5.26
percent.

