

Here is a summary of the latest scientific evidence for climate
change, published on February 2 by the UN's Intergovernmental
Panel on Climate Change (IPCC).


On April 6, the IPCC, meeting in Brussels, will issue a report on
the impact of climate change.


A third and final IPCC report, due to be issued in Bangkok in
May, will focus on reducing emissions of greenhouse gases.


The trilogy comprises the fourth assessment report by the IPCC
since its inception in 1988. The last assessment was in 2001.


PAST WARMING:


-- Evidence for warming of the climate system "is unequivocal".
From 1906 to 2005, global surface temperatures rose by 0.74 C
(1.33 F).


-- Global warming over the past half century has been nearly
twice that of the century as a whole, coinciding with a surge in
greenhouse-gas emissions from fossil fuels. Eleven of the past 12
years rank among the dozen warmest years on record.


-- Ocean warming now extends to a depth of at least 3,000 metres
(9,750 feet) as the seas take up heat from the air. Mountain
glaciers and snow cover have declined in both hemispheres. Sea
levels rose globally by 1.8 millimetres (0.07 inches) per year
from 1961 to 2003, a pace that accelerated to 3.1 mm (0.12 inch)
per year from 1993 to 2003.


-- Since the 1970s droughts have been "more intense and longer"
and observed over wider areas, especially in the tropics and
subtropics.


-- From 1900 to 2005, rainfall increased significantly in eastern
parts of North and South America, northern Europe and northern
and central Asia. The Sahel, Mediterranean, southern Africa and
parts of southern Asia became dryer.


-- The top layers of the Arctic permafrost have warmed by up to
3.0 C (5.4 F) since the 1980s. The maximum area of seasonally
frozen ground has decreased by around seven percent in the
northern hemisphere since 1900.


FORECAST FOR 21ST CENTURY:


-- By 2100, global average surface temperatures could rise by
between 1.1 C (1.98 F) and 6.4 C (11.52 F) compared to 1980-99
levels, depending on levels of carbon dioxide (CO2) in the air.


-- Within this range, the likeliest rise will be 1.8-4.0 C
(3.24-7.2 F).


-- Sea levels will rise by between 18 and 59 centimetres (7.2 and
23.2 inches), although this could be amplified by accelerating
melting of icesheets.


-- Warming will occur most over land at high northern latitudes
and least over the Southern Ocean and the North Atlantic.


BEYOND THE 21ST CENTURY:


-- Carbon emissions this century "will contribute to warming and
sea-level rise for more than a millennium", due to the timescale
required for greenhouse gases to degrade.


-- The Greenland icesheet will continue to contract beyond 2100
and contribute to the global sea level rise. A rise of 1.9-4.6 C
(3.42-8.3 F) in global average temperatures compared to pre-
industrial times would, if sustained for millennia, wipe out this
icesheet, driving up sea levels by seven metres (22.75 feet).

