

China will expand its social security fund to at least 200
billion dollars within a decade in a bid to meet the surging
demand for pensions from its aging population, state media said
Friday.


Xiang Huaicheng, the chairman of the government-run National
Council for Social Security Fund, said the fund could expand
fivefold in less than 10 years from its current 41.8 billion
dollars, the China Daily reported.


Xiang, a former finance minister, said the consensus had it that
in 2035 the demand for pensions would start to peak.


The World Bank has estimated China would need a fund of around
nine trillion yuan by that time while the Chinese official figure
was set at two trillion yuan but either is "an astronomical
number anyway", Xiang said.


China currently has 144 million people who have already passed
their 60th birthday, accounting for half of Asia's entire
population in that age group, according to official statistics.


Another 100 million will be added roughly every 15 years and
after 2030 the population that will be in the labor force to
support those who are either too young or too old to work will
shrink to less than half, the statistics showed.


"But if we take the matter seriously now, we might be able to
avoid a worst-case scenario," Xiang said.


As part of the measures to prepare the fund to meet future
funding demand, Xiang said it would gradually invest more in
overseas markets.


Less than five percent of the fund has so far been invested
overseas, far below the 20 percent cap set by the government,
Xiang said.

