

Australia will suffer more droughts, fires, floods and storms due
to global warming and its famous Great Barrier Reef will be
devastated by 2030, according to leaked extracts Friday of a UN
report.


The draft UN's Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report
warns that temperatures in Australia would rise by 6.7 degrees
Celsius before the end of the century, the ABC and Sydney Morning
Herald reported.


The report, due to be released on April 6, said rising
temperatures would cause more intense bushfires and lead to
deaths from heatwaves.


It also predicted rising sea levels would push the coast back 110
metres (yards) in some Sydney beachside suburbs, swamping some of
the city's most exclusive real estate.


It said tropical cyclones would become more common on Australia's
east coast, where most of the population lives, while 80 percent
of the Great Barrier Reef would be bleached by 2030.


Australia's conservative government played down the report,
saying it was based on previously published scientific research
and represented nothing new.


"Everything in there is well known to us, we know that there is
the possibility or the probability of a hotter and drier future
in southern Australia," Environment Minister Malcolm Turnbull
told ABC radio.


"We have a whole climate change adaptation framework under way,
we are very focused on adapting to climate change."


The UN report is the second in a series of three addressing
climate change that has been prepared by a panel of more than
2,000 scientists.


The first, released in February, linked the rise in global
temperatures to human activities, the second examines inpacts in
individual countries and the third looks at how the problem can
be addressed.

