

A state-run Chinese construction company attempted to cover up
the collapse of a subway tunnel being built for the 2008 Beijing
Olympics that has likely killed six workers, state media said
Friday.


The company building the line waited at least eight hours before
notifying authorities of the accident, which occurred early
Wednesday, while it organised its own rescue teams to keep word
from leaking out, the Beijing Times reported.


Ten people have been taken into custody over the matter while a
labour contractor working for the company, China Railway 12th
Bureau Group Co Ltd, has fled, it added.


The accident occurred in Beijing's Haidian university district on
the No. 10 subway line and hopes of finding the workers alive had
faded after more than 200 rescuers failed to reach them by late
Thursday, state television reported.


The labourers were working about 11 metres (33 feet) underground.


As part of the cover-up, the construction company had asked all
rescue workers to turn in their cellphones and locked the gate of
the site, the Beijing Times said.


Beijing police first learned of the accident after a construction
worker who hails from the nearby province of Henan secretly
called police in his hometown, who relayed the information to
Beijing.


State television has blamed the collapse on "porous soil", but
gave no other details.


The line crosses northern Beijing and will link up to the Olympic
Village when it is finished in 2008.


Beijing is constructing four subway lines and a light rail line
to the airport that are slated to be finished in time for the
Olympic Games in August next year.

