

South Korea's Shi Hyun Ahn fired a 4-under 68 to take a one-shot
lead over 2006 Player of the Year Lorena Ochoa Thursday in the
first round of the LPGA Kraft Nabisco Championship.


Swedish superstar Annika Sorenstam, keen to add to her total of
10 major championships, left herself a lot of work with a
disappointing 75.


Ochoa, who could topple Sorenstam from the No. 1 world ranking by
claiming the first major of her career here this week, closed her
round with a birdie to narrow the gap to Ahn.


Sorenstam wasn't the only player to struggle at Mission Hills
Country Club, where only nine players were under par.


Defending champion Karrie Webb was tied for third with South
Korean Jee Young Lee, Sweden's Maria Hjorth and Britain's
Catriona Matthew at 2-under 70.


Ochoa lost in a playoff to Webb last year, but the near miss
helped propel her to a great season in which she won six times
and topped the money list.


Ochoa threatened to run away from the field when she made four
birdies on the front nine, but but she gave back shots at the
11th and 14th before bouncing back with a birdie from eight feet
at the par-5 18th.


"I had a really good front nine and it started to remind me of
last year (when she opened with a 62), Ochoa said. "Then I had
the two bogeys, but I was really happy to make the putt at the
last.


"Last year was a tough tournament to lose, but getting better is
a process, and I had a lot of wins last year which has made me
more experienced and I'm feeling very comfortable."


Sorenstam was anything but comfortable Thursday as she carded
three birdies but also had four bogeys and a double-bogey.


"I made a few birdies but I just didn't put it all together,"
Sorenstam said. "I'm not going to be this way the rest of the
week. I'm going to be positive the rest of the week."


Sherri Steinhauer, Brittany Lang and Pat Hurst were tied for
seventh at 1-under.

