

Parents of children held hostage on board a Manila bus called
Friday on police to release the chief culprit, saying he was a
good man who had helped their community.


Some of the parents said they planned to rally outside the
capital's police headquarters later Friday and would not press
charges against Armando Ducat.


Ducat, who owns a pre-school day centre in a Manila slum
district, and his accomplice, Cesar Carbonell, held 26 of the
children and four teachers hostage Wednesday in a 10-hour
standoff as he railed against corruption in government and
demanded free housing and education for his charges.


One of the teachers who was held, Elmer Calleja, told reporters
they would rally to demand the men's release. "We respect Ducat's
beliefs," he said.


Lara Moreno, mother of one of the children, told the Philippine
Star daily that parents have "no plans" to file charges against
Ducat.


She said that while they did not agree with his actions, he was
still seen as a "good man" who tried to help Manila's urban poor.


"We owe him a lot. He gave our children free education, free food
and clothing. He is always there to help," said Rosita Osita,
another parent.


Osita said they could not act against Ducat out of a "sense of
gratitude."


"We don't want him in jail," said Mirabelle Moreno, whose six-
year-old son was on the bus.


"He was just doing what he thought was right and just for us ...
the poor," she told the Philippine Daily Inquirer.


Another parent, Mary Jane dela Cruz, said Ducat was a "good man
who only wanted to help us," and told the Inquirer she would not
press charges.


However, President Gloria Arroyo has told authorities to take
tough action against Ducat and Carbonell to avoid attracting
copycat hostage-takings.


The men are currently in police custody awaiting charges.

