

Cambodia's opposition leader Sam Rainsy demanded Friday an end to
the country's culture of impunity, at a ceremony marking a
grenade attack that killed at least 16 protesters 10 years ago.


No one has been arrested for the bombing of the anti-government
protest, which also wounded more than 120 people, including an
American, despite government claims that the case is still open.


"All compatriots, unite together to end this culture of impunity
in order to stop powerful people from killing others at will and
not face conviction," a tearful Sam Rainsy said.


"Ten years have passed but our hurt and misery remain the same,"
he added, standing at the site outside Cambodia's parliament
where four grenades were hurled into the crowd on March 30, 1997.


Sam Rainsy called on the governments of France and the United
States to look into the grenade attack.


The New York-based rights group, Human Rights Watch, on Thursday
also urged the US Federal Bureau of Investigation to re-
investigate the attack.


The FBI opened a probe into the attack after US citizen Ron
Abney, who was country director of the US-funded democracy group
International Republican Institute, was seriously wounded by
shrapnel.


But the investigation was hampered by uncooperative Cambodian
government officials and quickly bogged down.


In a statement read out at Friday's gathering, Abney said "that
one tragic event that day showed the world what happens when
(Prime Minister) Hun Sen's power is questioned."


"These cowards were sent by government thugs and their agents to
try and kill those threatening Hun Sen's hold on the people," he
said.


Bodyguards of Hun Sen have been accused by rights groups of
throwing the grenades -- a charge repeatedly denied by the
premier.


Sam Rainsy had earlier accused Hun Sen of masterminding of the
attack, but later recanted after returning last year from self-
imposed exile in France, where he had fled to avoid being
imprisoned for defaming the premier.

