

Australian energy infrastructure group Alinta recommended
acceptance Friday of a 6.0 billion US dollar takeover bid by a
consortium involving Babcock and Brown and Singapore Power.


Alinta's board said the recommendation was conditional on an
independent expert's valuation of Alinta shares and the absence
of a superior offer.


The cash and scrip offer values Alinta at 7.4 billion Australian
dollars (6.0 billion US) or 15 dollars a share.


The board has spent the past week deciding on offers for the
company following a bungled management buyout proposal at the
start of the year.


Alinta shares were suspended from trade earlier and were last
quoted at 14.15 dollars.


The board said in a statement that the offer represents a 39
percent premium to the stock's 30-day average price.


"While it will be sad to see the end of Alinta as a listed
company, the consortium's offer is an attractive one," chairman
John Akehurst said.


"Under the offer, Alinta's shareholders will receive a strong mix
of cash and securities which provides a continuing exposure to
growth and yield stocks in the energy infrastructure field."


The bidding for Alinta began after former chief executive Bob
Browning and former chairman John Poynton proposed a management
buy-out in January.


Investment and advisory firm Babcock and Brown's chief executive
Phil Green said the offer was unique.


"Through our partnership with Singapore Power we have been able
to structure a unique offer which delivers benefits to all
stakeholders," he said.


"The transaction delivers Babcock and Brown's specialised funds
and asset management platform access to high quality,
strategically important assets, which are complimentary to
existing asset portfolios and deliver significant scale and
synergies.


"The cash generative nature of the assets will allow the funds to
continue to focus on a strong cash distribution profile," Green
said.

