

Japanese Foreign Minister Taro Aso will make a five-day trip from
Saturday to South Korea and India, which is expected to focus on
the North Korea nuclear row and sensitive history-related issues.


Japan has been working to repair ties with South Korea and China,
which were badly strained in recent years over the legacy of war,
and to move closer to India, a fellow democracy which has little
historical baggage with Tokyo.


In New Delhi, Aso may also hold talks with his Chinese
counterpart Li Zhaoxing who will also be visiting the Indian
capital, a Japanese foreign ministry official said Friday.


Aso and Li would likely lay the groundwork for Chinese Premier
Wen Jiabao's visit to Japan in mid-April.


Aso will leave Tokyo for the South Korean resort island of Jeju
on Saturday to hold talks with his counterpart Song Min-Soon, the
official said.


North Korea's nuclear standoff is expected to be high on the
agenda for the Aso- Song meeting.


Six-nation talks on ending Pyongyang's nuclear programme broke
down earlier this month after North Korea refused to enter
negotiations until 25 million dollars in funds frozen in a Macau
bank were safely returned.


Aso's visit is also part of Tokyo's effort to improve ties with
Seoul and Beijing, which deteriorated as former prime minister
Junichiro Koizumi repeatedly visited a controversial war shrine
in Tokyo.


But a South Korean official said Song would bring up a row about
wartime sex slaves. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe caused an uproar
earlier this month when he denied Japan had directly coerced so-
called "comfort women," although he later renewed an apology to
them.


"Both sides cannot just pass by the issue of 'comfort women'
which has emerged as a pending issue between South Korea and
Japan," the South Korean official said Thursday.


Aso will fly to New Delhi on Monday to attend the South Asian
Association for Regional Cooperation summit as an observer. He
will deliver a speech at the summit.

