

Japan will extend sanctions against North Korea when they expire
in mid-April to keep the pressure on Pyongyang over its
abductions of Japanese nationals, a report said Friday.


The continued tough line would come despite an increasingly
conciliatory approach by the United States, which has agreed to a
six-way deal providing fuel aid in return for North Korea
freezing its nuclear programme.


Japan has taken the hardest line at the six-way talks and has
refused to fund the deal, saying it will not help North Korea
until the kidnapping dispute is resolved.


In October last year, the Japanese government barred all imports
from North Korea -- including money-makers such as clams, crabs
and high-end matsutake mushrooms -- for six months.


The government has decided to extend the sanctions by another six
months "in order to draw a sincere response" from North Korea on
the kidnapping row, Jiji Press said, quoting an unnamed
government source.


No immediate confirmation was available.


Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has built his career campaigning for
North Korea to resolve the row over its kidnappings of at least
13 Japanese in the 1970s and 1980s, who were abducted to help
train North Korean spies.


Pyongyang returned five victims and their families and says the
rest are dead, but Japan maintains that they are alive and kept
under wraps because they know too many secrets.


Abe has brushed off concerns that his hardline stance could
isolate Tokyo from close ally Washington.


"If they want to lift the sanctions, they must ... resolve the
kidnappings issue with concrete actions," Abe said earlier this
month.

