

Japanese share prices rose 0.43 percent in morning trade Friday
as investors cheered an upward revision to US economic growth
that helped lift Wall Street overnight, dealers said.


They said that investors were also poring over a raft of domestic
data, including the first drop in Japan's consumer prices for 10
months although the indicators were broadly in line with market
expectations.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
rose 74.33 points to 17,338.27 by the lunch break.


The TOPIX index of all issues on the Tokyo Stock Exchange's first
section added 8.63 points or 0.50 percent to 1,719.31.


Gainers beat decliners 1,005 to 537, with 174 stocks flat.


Volume was 976 million shares, down from 1.04 billion on Thursday
morning.


Dealers said the main indices had remained in narrow trading
ranges because many players had kept to the sidelines while they
awaited the closing of their books for the end of the fiscal year
this weekend.


"Economic data this morning confirmed that the economy is at a
standstill. The market now seeks to determine whether the Tankan
business sentiment survey, due out Monday, will reinforce this
view," said Tsuyoshi Segawa, a strategist at Shinko Securities.


Industrial output fell 0.2 percent last month from January, the
government said, better than an expected 0.6 percent decline.


The unemployment rate held steady at 4.0 percent in February
while core consumer prices were down 0.1 percent, the first
decline for 10 months.


Telecom shares were among the risers, having lagged the wider
market recently.


Nippon Telegraph and Telephone rose 25,000 yen or 4.1 percent to
635,000, NTT DoCoMo gained 5,000 yen or 2.31 percent at 221,000
and KDDI put on 16,000 yen or 1.71 percent to 949,000.


Pharmaceutical and real estate stocks also were among the major
gainers. Daiichi Sankyo was up 100 yen or 2.82 percent at 3,640
and Mitsui Fudosan up 40 yen or 1.18 percent at 3,430.


Sumitomo Corp was flat at 2,135 and Toshiba up three yen or 0.38
percent at 791 after a newspaper reported that Sumitomo Corp
would buy five percent of nuclear power firm Westinghouse from
Toshiba which holds 77 percent.


Sony was flat at 7,620. A newspaper reported that the company
will sell a key portion of the site of its former headquarters to
a construction firm for 40-50 billion yen (340-425 million
dollars).

