

A 16-year-old Australian girl seized the wheel of a Greyhound bus
full of schoolchildren early Friday after the driver passed out,
preventing it crashing into a dry creek bed, police said.


Laura Simpson, who does not have a driving licence, prevented
disaster as the bus started to leave the road near the rural
southeastern town of Muckadilla.


A total of 38 children were heading home for holiday when the
driver began to feel faint in the pre-dawn hours and attempted to
pull the coach over to the side of the road before he blacked
out, the Australian Associated Press reported.


Simpson was sitting three seats behind the driver and leapt into
action as the bus hit a road sign.


"The bus started to run off the road with a bit of a jolt and a
bang, and she looked across at the driver and said he was blue
and looked stiff," Laura's mother Megan Simpson said.


"So she leapt over to see what on earth was happening, because
they were heading for the scrub at this point. There was a
river... up in front of them.


"His (the driver's) eyes were rolling back in his head and he had
his foot on the accelerator. She grabbed the wheel and kept the
bus straight."


Simpson said Laura managed to wake the driver, who eventually
lifted his foot off the accelerator and pulled the bus to a halt
before passing out again.


"We're just lucky she was quick thinking and just acted," said
Simpson. "Like bush kids, she's been driving since she was about
10 or 11 around the place, but she's never experienced a bus."


The children used mobile phones to call an ambulance for the
driver, who was taken to hospital, then waited four hours on the
roadside for a replacement driver to arrive.


Police Inspector Graham Coleman described Laura's actions as
heroic and said she would be nominated for a bravery award.

