

The amount of China's domestic savings put into shares and funds
has hit a record high as its stock markets boom, according to a
central bank survey published in state-run press on Friday.


While bank deposits remain the most popular place for Chinese to
park their money, the People's Bank of China survey found stocks
and funds accounted for 16.7 percent of residents' financial
assets in the first quarter of the year.


That figure was up 6.7 percentage points from the previous
quarter and the highest since the central bank began its three-
monthly surveys in 2004, according to the the China Daily
newspaper.


Chinese households have traditionally kept most of their money in
bank savings, which hit 16.2 trillion yuan (2.1 trillion dollars)
by the end of 2006.


Nearly 60 percent of respondents in the latest survey of 20,000
residents in 50 cities reported bank deposits remained their most
important financial assets.


However, sentiment was turning partly because the real interest
rate was actually negative when taking into account rising
inflation and a 20-percent tax on interest payment, the China
Daily said.


The current benchmark one-year deposit rate is 2.79 percent after
a 0.27 percentage point rise two weeks ago, while the consumer
price index, a key indicator of inflation, stood at 2.7 percent
in February.


Meanwhile, China's stock markets have continued to roar ahead in
2007.


The Shanghai Composite Index closed at a record 3,197.53 points
on Thursday, extending this year's gains to 19.5 percent after
soaring 130 percent in 2006.


The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index covers both A- and
B-shares traded in China's two stock exchanges in Shanghai and
Shenzhen in the south.

