

Vijay Singh, Ernie Els, and Sergio Garcia have all confirmed they
will play at the HSBC Champions in Shanghai this year but Tiger
Woods will not make the trip.


The tournament at Sheshan International Golf Club from November
8-11 has become known as "Asia's Major" with five million dollars
in prize money.


Three-time major winner Singh, who recently lifted the Arnold
Palmer invitational, said it was always going to be on his
schedule this year.


"I had a great week in Shanghai at the inaugural event in 2005,
finishing tied 5th, and certainly hope to do better this year,"
said the Fijian, currently ranked seven in the world.


"I enjoy playing all over the world and am eager to return to
China and play in the 2007 HSBC Champions in November."


Els, also a triple major winner and a regular visitor to Asia,
has never played the tournament before and is keen to make an
impact.


"I am really looking forward to playing in the HSBC Champions - I
have heard great things about it from my colleagues on the Tour,"
said the world number four.


"With the strength of field and the substantial prize money on
offer, it is a very important event to include in my schedule as
I aim to head back up both the World and European Tour rankings."


But world number one Tiger Woods, who has played at the previous
two tournaments, will not compete with his wife due to give birth
this summer, organisers said.


"Due to personal and professional scheduling issues, Tiger Woods
will not compete in Shanghai this year, but we hope to welcome
him back in 2008 and beyond," said head of HSBC's Sports
Sponsorship and Marketing Giles Morgan.


Last year 10 of the world's top 20 players competed, but South
Korea's Yang Yong-Eun upstaged them all to win at 14 under, two
strokes ahead of Woods.


The event is co-sanctioned by the European, Asian and
Australasian tours and by the China Golf Association. Winners
from those tours and players in the world's top 50 are eligible.

