

Marseille will be counting on teenage midfielder Samir Nasri
repeating his star performance in France's midweek friendly win
over Austria when they host Lorient on Saturday.


Marseille are lying on 42 points, six off second-placed Lens who
trail Lyon, in action in the French League Cup final against
Bordeaux this weekend, by a yawning 16 points.


The 19-year-old Nasri, fielded just behind the brand new strike
pairing of Djibril Cisse and Nicolas Anelka for France at the
Stade de France on Wednesday, received a standing ovation when he
left the pitch with 20 minutes to go such was his bright
contribution.


Nasri, stepping into the giant void left by the retired Zinedine
Zidane, was involved in the only goal of the game: his freekick
set up Lyon centre forward Karim Benzema nine minutes after the
break.


Marseille will be out to take all three points off their bottom-
of-the-table visitors in a bid to maintain their push for a place
in Europe next season.


Off the pitch speculation abounds, however, over whether club
owner Robert Louis-Dreyfus will sell his controlling stake in the
Velodrome.


With Lyon on League Cup duty, Lens can slice three points off
their near- unassailable lead if they see off ailing visitors
Paris Saint Germain on Sunday.


Defeat for PSG could see them suffer the ignominy of going bottom
if Sedan do the business at fellow relegation strugglers Nantes.


To complicate matters PSG manager Paul Le Guen will have to do
without suspended defender Bernard Mendy.


Fixtures


Saturday


Lorient v Marseille


Sunday


Nantes v Sedan, Nice v Monaco, Troyes v Sochaux, Le Mans v
Auxerre, Lille v Valenciennes, Toulouse v St Etienne, Lens v PSG

