

Australian share prices closed 0.57 percent higher in heavy trade
Friday, buoyed by merger and acquisition activity in the media
and energy sectors, dealers said.


They said media stocks were especially in focus as looser
ownership regulations come into force on Wednesday, with the
major players jockeying for position ahead of what is expected to
be a sharp consolidation of the industry.


The benchmark SP/ASX 200 closed up 34.1 points at 5,995 while the
broader All Ordinaries index advanced 33.1 points to 5,978.8.


Turnover was heavy at 1.66 billion shares worth 8.97 billion
dollars (7.23 billion US) were traded, with rises outnumbering
falls 756 to 481 and 345 stocks unchanged.


CMC Markets senior dealer James Foulsham said there was a buzz
around media stocks after the government announced that
legislation reforming media ownership restrictions will take
effect on April 4.


"We are almost certain to see some ownership reshuffling as the
big players look to consolidate and the smaller players become
prime takeover targets," he said.


PBL ended up 0.82 dollars or 4.31 percent at 19.85 dollars,
Fairfax gained 0.24 or 5.06 percent to 4.98, West Australian News
jumped 0.98 or 6.69 percent to 15.63 and Seven Network rose 0.21
to 11.42.


News Corp climbed 0.50 to 30.40 while its non-voting stock
advanced 0.44 to 28.56.


Foulsham said there was also some rebalancing of positions into
oil stocks due to a lot of uncertainty surrounding Iran while the
wider market was mixed.


Woodside fell 0.06 to 39.49 while Santos gained 0.15 to 10.15 and
Oil Search rose 0.07 to 3.71.


Alinta climbed 0.37 to 14.52 dollars while Babcock and Brown
jumped 1.07 or 4.05 percent to 27.47 after the energy
infrastructure group said its board recommended a 7.5 billion
dollar offer from Babcock and Brown and Singapore Power
International.


BHP Billiton added 0.07 to 29.89 while Rio Tinto rose 0.63 to
78.81.


National Australia Bank rose 0.25 to 40.40, Commonwealth Bank
gained 0.16 to 50.26 while Westpac was steady at 16.35 and ANZ
shed 0.15 to 29.70.


Telstra gained 0.06 to 4.66, extending recent gains, while its T3
receipts rose 0.08 to 3.21. SingTel slipped 0.02 to 2.63.

