

The dollar was narrowly mixed in Asian trade Friday as market
participants remained vigilant amid growing tensions between Iran
and Britain and uncertain prospects for the US economy, dealers
said.


They said that the market was largely unaffected by a series of
indicators on the Japanese economy, including the first fall in
consumer prices for 10 months, while an upgrade to US economic
growth had a muted impact.


The dollar dipped to 117.84 yen in Tokyo morning trade from
118.02 yen in New York late Thursday.


The euro declined to 1.3325 dollars from 1.3331 and to 157.03 yen
from 157.43 yen.


"Players remain cautious as there are many factors we have to
watch closely such as the Iran issue and the US economic
situation," said Masaki Fukui, senior market economist at Mizuho
Corporate Bank's forex division.


The week-old standoff between Britain and Iran over 15 British
naval detainees in the northern Gulf has sent oil prices to a
six-month high.


The dollar turned in a mixed performance in US trade on Thursday
as an upward revision to estimates of US fourth quarter growth
failed to ease market concerns about economic weakness.


The US economy expanded at a 2.5 percent annualised pace in the
fourth quarter of 2006, a bit faster than earlier estimates, the
Commerce Department said.


But analysts cautioned that more tepid growth was likely ahead as
the economy takes a hit from a slumping real estate market.


Japan released a mixed set of economic indicators.


The core consumer price index (CPI) fell 0.1 percent in February
from a year earlier, the first fall in 10 months, while
industrial output was down 0.2 percent.


"But a continued fall in the CPI is unlikely, particularly as oil
prices are back on a rising track," Fukui said.


Meanwhile average monthly household spending rose 1.3 percent in
February from a year earlier, while the jobless rate remained
unchanged at 4.0 percent.

