

The amount of domestic savings invested in funds has hit a record
high as China's stock markets boom, according to a central bank
survey published in the state-run press on Friday.


While bank deposits remain the most popular place for Chinese to
park their money, the People's Bank of China survey found funds
accounted for 16.7 percent of residents' financial assets in the
first quarter of the year.


That figure was up 6.7 percentage points from the previous
quarter and the highest since the central bank began its three-
monthly surveys in 2004, according to the China Daily newspaper.


In the latest survey of 20,000 residents in 50 cities, a record
30.3 percent of respondents thought buying shares and funds was
the most lucrative investment, up 11.7 percentage points from
three months earlier.


Chinese households have traditionally kept most of their money in
bank savings, which hit 16.2 trillion yuan (2.1 trillion dollars)
by the end of 2006.


Nearly 60 percent of respondents in the survey reported bank
deposits remained their most important financial assets.


However, sentiment was turning, partly because the real interest
rate was actually negative when taking into account rising
inflation and a 20-percent tax on interest payments, the China
Daily said.


The current benchmark one-year bank deposit rate is 2.79 percent
after a 0.27 percentage point rise two weeks ago, while the
consumer price index, a key indicator of inflation, stood at 2.7
percent in February.


Meanwhile, China's stock markets have continued to roar ahead in
2007.


The Shanghai Composite Index closed at a record 3,197.53 points
on Thursday, extending this year's gains to 19.5 percent after
soaring 130 percent in 2006.

