

Four Japanese wardens were convicted but allowed to walk free
Friday after killing an inmate with a restraining device in a
case that led Japan to tighten protections for prisoners.


The court called the case "torture," but said that the wardens at
the prison in the central city of Nagoya were not breaking any
regulations at the time.


The wardens took an unruly inmate into solitary confinement in
May 2002 and fastened a belt around his abdomen that was so tight
the 49-year-old died later in the day from intestinal injuries,
the court said.


The Nagoya District Court sentenced warden Akihiko Maeda to three
years in prison suspended for five years and gave shorter
suspended sentences to three other jailers. A fifth prison guard
was acquitted, a court official said.


"They committed the crime in order to torture the inmate, which
was not executing their duties," Judge Osamu Ito ruled, according
to Jiji Press.


He added, however, that the guards did not break existing rules.


The guards who were convicted planned to appeal, seeking
acquittal.


Hideki Yamashita, a prisoner who was injured through the same
punishment, urged prosecutors to appeal the case in hopes of
sending the wardens to prison, according to Kyodo News.


Other guards were earlier given suspended sentences in a separate
case at the Nagoya prison for killing an inmate by spraying a
high-pressure water hose on his anus.


The cases led Japan to revamp its prison law for the first time
in nearly a century, revising the 1908 code to spell out the
rights of prisoners and require training for guards in human
rights.


The United Nations Commission on Human Rights had voiced concern
over Japan's frequent use of the leather belts, which are
attached to manacles. Amnesty International likened the devices
to "medieval instruments of torture."

