

The star-studded Netherlands missed a golden opportunity to
virtually seal qualification for Euro 2008 after being held to a
goalless draw by determined Romania here Saturday.


The Adrian Mutu-inspired visitors threatened to cause a late
upset after causing problems throughout for Marco Van Basten's
team, who were jeered off the pitch despite grabbing a point to
remain top of group G three points ahead of Bulgaria, who have
played a game less.


It was not just at the end of the game that the hosts gave their
suffering fans reason to moan.


Romania, known for their ability to score on the counter-attack,
produced some of the game's best goal-scoring chances in the
first half, through Dorin Goian after just three minutes and
Ciprian Marica in the fifth and 28th minutes.


It took the Netherlands until the 35th minute to threaten scoring
a goal, Arjen Robben hitting the target but failing to beat
Romania keeper Bogdan Lobont.


The hosts continued with a series of attacking forays which the
visitors, despite missing star defender Cristian Chivu due to a
broken nose, managed to contain with relative ease.


Lobont was also up to the task when midfielders Rafael van der
Vaart, in the 36th minute, and Wesley Sneijder, 10 minutes later,
tried their luck at goal.


Dutch desperation for a goal became more prevalent in the second
half, but essentially Van Basten's side lacked the kind of depth
to their game that would allow Klaas-Jan Huntelaar to shine.


As a result the Dutch centre forward was given relatively poor
service from his midfield.


In the final minute, Mutu even threatened an upset, coming close
to putting the visitors ahead.


Van Basten, one of the stars of the Dutch team which won the
trophy in 1988, will be worried a few days ahead of their trip to
Slovenia.


On Wednesday, Romania will also play host to Luxemburg.

