

The Security Council voted unanimously Saturday to slap new UN
sanctions on Iran, ratcheting up the pressure on Tehran to halt
its sensitive uranium enrichment process.


The council's 15 members adopted Resolution 1747, co-sponsored by
Britain, France and Germany, that broadens UN sanctions already
imposed on Iran in December for spurning repeated demands to
suspend the nuclear fuel work.


"The unanimous adoption of this resolution reflects the
international community's profound concern over Iran's nuclear
program," Britain's UN Ambassador Emyr Jones Parry, one of the
sponsors, said on behalf of the six powers which had led efforts
to rein in Iran's nuclear ambitions.


"We call upon Iran once again to comply fully with all its
international obligations," he said in a statement drafted by
Britain, China, France, Germany, Russia and the United States.


The six proposed new talks with Tehran to find a negotiated
solution.


The resolution bans all Iranian arms exports, freezes the
overseas assets of 28 additional officials and institutions
linked to the Islamic Republic's nuclear and ballistic missile
programs and restricts financial aid or loans to Tehran.


It gives Iran 60 days to comply with the repeated UN demands or
face "further appropriate measures" -- economic sanctions but no
military action -- under Article 41 of the UN Charter.


The unanimous vote came after the text crafted by the five veto-
wielding permanent members was slightly amended to satisfy non-
permanent members South Africa, Indonesia and Qatar.


The resolution offers to suspend the sanctions once the UN atomic
monitoring agency, the IAEA, has verified that the Islamic
Republic has met all its obligations, particularly by freezing
all enrichment-related and reprocessing activities.

