

Bangkok's nearly century-old Don Muang airport reopened to
domestic flights Sunday to ease the crowds at the city's troubled
new airport, authorities said.


Don Muang was one of Asia's busiest hubs until it was shuttered
in September, following the opening of the sparkling new
Suvarnabhumi Airport.


Some 140 flights carrying 20,000 passengers daily are now set to
use the airport, beloved by many for its quirks -- including a
golf course between the main runways -- and its relatively easy
access to downtown Bangkok.


The revived airport's first flight took off for flag carrier Thai
Airways at 6:00 am for the northeastern city of Ubon Ratchathani,
an airline spokesman said.


A sign draped across the check-in counters read: "Welcome back to
Don Muang."


"Don Muang has reopened and is running smoothly," said a
spokeswoman.


Thai Airways is keeping some flights to popular tourist
destinations like Phuket and Chiang Mai at Suvarnabhumi in hopes
of minimising inconvenience to the more than 13 million
holidaymakers who visit Thailand each year.


Two other airlines, low-cost carriers Nok Airways and One-Two-Go,
have moved their flights to Don Muang but international carriers
have refused to leave Suvarnabhumi.


Don Muang had been shuttered six months ago as officials hoped
Suvarnabhumi would establish Bangkok as Southeast Asia's
preeminent air hub.


Instead, the three-billion-dollar facility has been plagued by
problems from cracks in the runways to complaints about safety
and sanitation.


Officials say that moving domestic flights to the old airport
will ease overcrowding at Suvarnabhumi and make it easier to
repair the runways and fix other problems.

