

Hong Kong leader Donald Tsang is a devout Catholic and career
civil servant who has spent four decades in government.


The 62-year-old, rarely seen in public without his trademark bow
tie, started his long stint in public service under what was then
the British colonial government in 1967.


The son of a Hong Kong police officer, he became the first
Chinese appointed as a financial secretary in 1995, two years
before Britain handed sovereignty of the city back to China.


After winning praise for steering the city through the Asian
financial crisis of the late 1990s, he was promoted to chief
secretary by the Chinese territory's first post-colonial leader
Tung Chee-hwa.


The ineffectual Tung's problems began to mount after a huge anti-
government street demonstration in 2003. By 2005 his woes had
become insurmountable and he resigned mid-way through his second
term.


Tsang, then his deputy, replaced him and secured a mandate from
the Election Committee in 2005.


Ordinarily he would have been expected to serve a five-year term,
but amid huge debate and following a controversial intervention
by Beijing, it was decided he would simply serve out the rest of
Tung's term.


Tsang would not have been China's choice were it not for his
popularity, which has remained above the 60-percent approval
rating -- his Catholicism and past loyalty to the British
administration have long been a concern in China.


However, following Tung's disastrous and divisive time in office,
Beijing was keen to have a unifying leader who could command the
public's confidence.


Tsang's popular appeal comes despite -- or perhaps because of --
his sober character.


At his final public rally ahead of Sunday's leadership vote, he
said: "I am a serious, responsible, conscientious and even a
stiff man, but I can promise you that I will do this job well."

