

An Australian Olympic cyclist was one of three people killed in
last week's fiery eight-car pile-up inside a Melbourne tunnel,
officials said Sunday.


Damian McDonald, 34, is believed to have died instantly in
Friday's accident in the Burnley Tunnel, which generated a
massive fireball that forced the evacuation of hundreds of
drivers and caused traffic chaos.


Cycling Australia said McDonald, who won gold in the 1994
Commonwealth Games and who represented Australia in the 1996
Summer Olympics in Atlanta, would be sadly missed.


"Damian played a prominent role in Australia's road cycling high
performance programme in the 1990s and was a valued member of the
Australian road cycling team in World Championship, Commonwealth
Games and Olympic Games competition," chief executive Graham
Fredericks said.


"Our hearts go out to his wife Bree and the couple's young son as
they try to cope with the loss of a wonderful husband and
father."


McDonald won gold in the road team trial event at the 1994
Commonwealth Games in Canada along with Brett Dennis, Henk Vogels
and Phil Anderson.


In 1995, his 42nd placing in the road race at the World
Championships meant Australia gained the maximum number of
competitors in the event at the 1996 Olympics.


McDonald retired from international competition in 1997.


Police said McDonald was among the three drivers killed in the
tunnel crash involving five car and three trucks.


They said they were still investigating the cause of the deadly
accident.


"We need to now put together a series of video images as well as
reconstruct that crash scientifically," Victoria Police assistant
commissioner Noel Ashby said.


Footage obtained so far from security cameras showed vehicles
moving to avoid a truck broken down in the left-hand lane, "and
it then shows a large impact and a large flash of flame," he
said.

