

European Union envoys are to prod Iran to reconsider its refusal
to halt sensitive nuclear activities in defiance of the
international community, a senior US official said Saturday.


EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana and other EU diplomats
"would be in touch with the Iranian government in the days and
weeks ahead to see if they might reconsider their obstinate
refusal to renegotiate," US Undersecretary of State Nicholas
Burns told reporters in Washington.


He spoke after the UN Security Council voted unanimously Saturday
to slap new UN sanctions on Iran, ratcheting up the pressure on
Tehran to halt its sensitive uranium enrichment process.


The council's 15 members adopted Resolution 1747, co-sponsored by
Britain, France and Germany, that broadens UN sanctions already
imposed on Iran in December for spurning repeated demands to
suspend the nuclear fuel work.


Burns said the door was still open for Iran to suspend its
nuclear work and return to talks with the international
community.


"We would anticipate some international discussions and
negotiations over the next coming weeks -- no formal negotiations
but discussions," he said.


The talks were "to encourage Dr Ali Larijani (Iran's top nuclear
negotiator) and some of the other Iranian officials to reconsider
their refusal to renegotiate.


"We hope very much that Iran will reconsider and will come to the
negotiating table," Burns said.


Talks between Iran, three European nations -- Germany, Britain
and France -- Solana, and the IAEA collapsed last year over
Tehran's refusal to suspend uranium enrichment.


That impasse led the UN Security Council in December to impose
targeted sanctions and step up its action on Saturday.

