

Two policemen and eight members of Darfur's former rebel Sudanese
Liberation Movement (SLM) were killed on Saturday in a shootout
near the capital, the interior minister told reporters.


Interior Minister Zubeir Beshir Taha said in a televised press
conference that police had reported losing two men in the battle,
including a lieutenant colonel, while the SLM said it had eight
dead and six wounded.


The clashes began when a civilian opened fire on a group of SLM
members in a residential neighbourhood of Khartoum's twin city of
Omdurman, he said, adding that the situation was now under
control.


The clash was the first in Khartoum between the SLM and the
government as well as the worst violence to hit the city since
riots sparked by the death of southern rebel leader John Garang
in August 2005 killed over 45 people.


The fighting came amid what observers have described as a rising
climate of tension between the SLM and local authorities.


The SLM of Minni Minnawi launched a revolt against the central
government in Sudan's western Darfur region in 2003, but three
years later signed a peace accord with the government.


It is only in the wake of the agreement that the SLM has had any
presence in Khartoum at all, following the opening of an office
there so they could have direct contacts with the central
government.


The SLM's peace agreement with Khartoum was not well received in
Darfur and the movement has suffered several schisms as factions
have split off to conduct their own military campaigns against
the central government.


As a result fighting has continued in the troubled region where
the UN estimates 200,000 people have died and another 2.5 million
have been displaced.


A joint UN-African Union delegation is currently in Khartoum to
try to relaunch talks between the government and the many rebel
factions who haven't signed the peace agreement.

