

South Korea said Sunday that it could strike a deal with the
United States if they make concessions at their final free trade
talks this week.


With the deadline only a week away, both sides will meet in Seoul
Monday to seek a final deal after nearly 10 months of tough
negotiations.


"Both sides will seek a final deal at the minister-level
meeting," South Korean Finance and Economy Minister Kwon O-kyu
said in an interview with Yonhap news agency.


"I am not optimistic or pessimistic. However, I say clearly that
we may not sign it if the deal is unbalanced."


South Korea is willing to make "some concessions" in narrowing
differences on some sensitive issues, Kwon said, and urged the
United States to do the same.


After talks last week in Washington, US chief negotiator Wendy
Cutler said the two sides were "closing in" on sensitive areas
such as agriculture, automobiles and pharmaceuticals.


South Korea insists it will maintain trade barriers on rice and
other sensitive items to protect its way of life, while
Washington says there should be no exceptions in an accord.


Washington also wants the early elimination of South Korean
levies on American cars, given that very few are sold here
compared with hundreds of thousands moving the other way.


The United States has an 11-billion-dollar deficit in auto trade
with South Korea, which is accused of shutting out US vehicles
through an array of tariffs and other barriers.


The deal, if agreed, would be the biggest since the 1993 North
American Free Trade Agreement. US-South Korean bilateral trade
reached 74 billion dollars in 2006.


US negotiators must submit any FTA deal to Congress by April 2
for a 90-day review before President George W. Bush's "fast-
track" trade promotion authority expires on July 1.

