

Hong Kong lawmaker and barrister Alan Leong, the challenger in
Sunday's leadership vote, has an upbeat attitude about his
quixotic campaign to become the territory's next Chief Executive.


The 49-year-old is the most prominent face of the moderate wing
of reformists in this Chinese territory who have long campaigned
for universal suffrage.


Leong is a seasoned public speaker seen to have performed well in
the debates with incumbent Donald Tsang, the candidate whose
support from Beijing makes him all but a shoo-in to be
reappointed.


"A lot of people said to me, 'You are definitely going to lose,
but that doesn't matter, you should try again,'" he told a rally
of 200 supporters on Saturday.


Leong has no illusions about the prospect of getting the top job
-- he has repeatedly called the process rigged -- but insists his
campaign has made a difference.


"I have absolutely no chance of winning. I am not in it to get
the job," local weekly HK Magazine quoted him saying.


"I am in it to establish an election culture, and Hong Kongers
who have witnessed this campaign would agree with me that the
political landscape since the first debate has been changed," he
said.


Leong said he joined the race to force Tsang into a public debate
and give Hong Kongers a sense of involvement in what many say is
a small-circle vote.


He hopes his run has helped to put Hong Kong on the road toward
full democracy, which he would like to see by the time of the
next vote for chief executive in 2012.


"It's a first step, but it's a historic and significant first
step," Leong said when he launched his candidacy.


A Cambridge University graduate, he has found support among Hong
Kong's middle classes at a time when a booming economy is
perceived by many to have failed all but the very rich.


In 2006 he and like-minded colleagues created the Civic Party in
a move widely seen as a boost to a pro-democracy movement that
had been splintered by radical factions.

