

A musician without peer and citizen of the world, Mstislav
Rostropovich spent most of his life unwelcome in his Russian
homeland.


The famed cellist and conductor, who has been suffering an
unspecified illness in recent weeks, was to celebrate his 80th
birthday on Tuesday at a Kremlin party, according to his
spokeswoman.


But the irony of the great musician's life is that for years he
was persona non grata in the Russian capital.


Despite acclaim as a young artist in the Soviet Union, official
persecution ultimately forced him into exile in 1974.


Even his return to post-Soviet Russia, whose democracy he
defended with rifle in hand, was far from idyllic.


And though Rostropovich and his wife, the singer Galina
Vishnevksaya, mingled with royals and counted heads of state as
friends, Russia's artistic elite was often aligned against them.


"Many of their compatriots are jealous of their success, their
wealth, their talent. Many people can't forgive them for their
civic courage: 99 percent of the people who surrounded them
behaved in the opposite way," said Russian filmmaker Alexander
Sokurov, who produced a documentary on the couple.


Born on March 27, 1927, to a musical family in Baku, capital of
then-Soviet Azerbaijan, Rostropovich gave his first concert at
the age of 13.


At 23, he had won several prestigious international competitions,
as well as the Stalin prize, the highest Soviet distinction.


By the 1960s he was already on his way to winning over the rest
of the world.


Then, on October 31, 1970, the cellist wrote an open letter to
the newspaper Pravda defending author Alexander Solzhenitsyn, who
had become the target of official abuse after receiving the Nobel
Prize for literature.


"I know Solzhenitsyn's works, I love them and I believe he has
suffered for the right to write the truth," Rostropovich said,
defending the novelist who spent years living at his country
house.


Decades later, the cellist would declare: "The best thing I
produced was not music, but that letter to Pravda. Since then I
have had a clean conscience."


But the letter, which was never published in the state-controlled
press, made Rostropovich a marked man.


He was banned from the prestigious Bolshoi Theatre, barred from
touring abroad and forbidden to conduct full orchestras.


Instead he led provincial orchestras, work that "left a bitter
after-taste of artistic frustration," his wife Vishnevskaya wrote
in her memoirs.


Rostropovich bore that frustration for three-and-a-half years
before fleeing the Soviet Union in 1974 with his wife and two
daughters to settle in the United States.


From there, the musician began a campaign to win freedom for
another larger- than-life Soviet dissident, Andrei Sakharov, who
was confined to internal exile.


In 1978, Rostropovich and Vishnevskaya were stripped of their
Soviet citizenship for "systematic acts bringing harm to the
prestige of the Soviet Union."


"We heard about this on television in our small Paris apartment,"
Rostropovich remembered. "The following day, people banged on our
door. I knew by the length of their sleeves they were from the
Soviet embassy."


"I didn't give them back my passport. I said I would put it up
for auction if the girls had nothing to eat," the musician said
wryly.


Rostropovich settled his score with Communism by performing J.S.
Bach at the foot of the Berlin Wall as it was being torn down in
November 1989.


Rehabilitated in 1990 by decree of then-Soviet leader Mikhail
Gorbachev, Rostropovich returned to the Soviet Union to perform
with the Washington Symphony Orchestra, which he directed from
1977 to 1994.


In August 1991, just months from the collapse of Soviet power, he
flew to Moscow to help oppose a coup by Communist hardliners.


A famous photograph showed him holding a rifle instead of his
beloved cello, standing before the parliament against encircling
putsch supporters.


Since then, Rostropovich's relations with the Russian music world
have generated their own dramas.


The latest came when the musician broke a contract with the
Bolshoi in November 2005, a week before he was due to direct the
premier of Prokofiev's opera "War and Peace."


For his 70th birthday in 1997, Rostropovich organised grand
concerts in Paris and Baku but snubbed Russia.


And in 1999, he threatened to never perform in the country again
to protest criticism of one of his works.


"He was annoyed with these non-professional critics who write
whatever they like," said violinist Viktor Tretyakov, who has
worked with Rostropovich.


But Tretyakov saw far more in the man than wounded pride.


"He is a gigantic personality, a brilliant artist who soars above
all other musicians. And he kept the spirit to fight for
justice," he said.

