

UN chief Ban Ki-moon arrived in Israel late on Saturday on his
first official Middle East visit amid a flurry of diplomatic
activity aimed at kickstarting peace efforts.


Defence Minister Amir Peretz met Ban at Tel Aviv's Ben Gurion
airport, where the two were to hold talks, according to Peretz's
office.


On Sunday, Ban is due in the West Bank city of Ramallah to meet
Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas. He will then head back to
Jerusalem for a meeting with US Secretary of State Condoleezza
Rice, who is returning to the region for the third time this
year.


On Monday, Ban will meet Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert
before travelling on to Jordan and then Saudi Arabia.


He is due to conclude his regional tour with a visit to Lebanon
for talks with Prime Minister Fuad Siniora and his political
opponent Parliament speaker Nabih Berri.


In Riyadh, Ban will attend the Wednesday opening session of an
Arab League summit that will be closely watched for signs of
renewed support for a dormant five-year-old Arab initiative for
peace with Israel.


Rice's Mideast visit includes a frenetic four days of shuttle
diplomacy that will take her from Egypt to Israel to Jordan and
then back to Israel.


The Swedish Foreign Minister, Carl Bildt, is also due in Israel
on Saturday evening for a round of talks with Israeli officials
and non-Hamas Palestinian leaders.


The diplomatic flurry comes a week after a new Palestinian
coalition government took power, uniting Abbas' moderate Fatah
faction and Islamist hardliners Hamas.


It also follows positive signs that Israel may now be ready to
discuss the dormant Arab peace plan that offers recognition of
the Jewish state if it returns to its 1967 borders, permits the
creation of an independent Palestinian state and allows the
return of Palestinian refugees.

