

England's Dan Wheldon won the season-opening IndyCar Series Indy
300 on Saturday night, his third straight triumph at Homestead-
Miami Speedway.


Wheldon stamped himself as the man to beat in 2007, leading all
but 21 laps and defeating his Target/Chip Ganassi Racing teammate
Scott Dixon of New Zealand by 6.4993 seconds, a massive margin by
IndyCar standards.


In four of the last six years, the driver who won the opening
race went on to win the title.


Three-time and defending series champion Sam Hornish was third,
followed by Vitor Meira and Tony Kanaan, both of Brazil.


Wheldon is the first drive to win three straight events at the
same track in IndyCar Series history, and he has led 345 of the
last 600 laps at Homestead.


Wheldon appeared well on his way to victory, leading 90 of the
first 96 laps, but he dropped to ninth after a crew member
dropped the wheel nut during a pit stop on lap 104.


On the same pit stop, Hornish also had a lengthy stop dropping
him from second to seventh.


By lap 118, Wheldon had moved up to second, and he passed Dixon
for the lead two laps later, moving from ninth to first in 10
laps.


IndyCar glamour girl Danica Patrick, who started 14th, moved up
to eighth place when she passed AGR teammates Kanaan and Dario
Franchitti. But Patrick spun and crashed entering the pits on lap
156 and she was out of the race.


Rain brought out a caution flag during the race, as did a three-
car crash involving Jeff Simmons, A.J. Foyt IV and Kosuke
Matsuura in the fourth turn on lap 92..


All three cars were out of the race but none of the drivers were
hurt.


A driver in Saturday afternoon's Indy Pro Series Miami 100
suffered serious leg injuries in a horrifying crash.


Argentina's Pablo Perez was listed in serious but stable
condition at Jackson Memorial Hospital. He had surgery on his
lower extremities, and sources said doctors were trying to save
his feet from being amputated.

