

The following are details of the new sanctions adopted by the UN
Security Council Saturday and of the incentives offered to Tehran
to end the nuclear standoff.


New sanctions contained in Security Council Resolution 1747:


-- A ban on all Iranian arms exports


-- Voluntary restrictions on sales of arms such as combat
aircraft, attack helicopters, warships, missiles, battle tanks
and armored combat vehicles to Iran


-- A voluntary freeze on overseas assets of 13 institutions,
including state- owned Bank Sepah, and 15 additional officials
and 13 institutions linked to the Islamic Republic's sensitive
nuclear and ballistic missile programs, including senior officers
of the Elite Iranian Revolutionary Guards Corps (IRGC).


-- Voluntary restrictions on foreign travel of those 15 officials


-- Voluntary restrictions on financial aid or loans to the
Iranian government.


Sanctions approved by the Council in Resolution 1737 in December:


-- A ban on trade with Iran of all items, materials, equipment,
goods and technology which could contribute to Tehran's uranium
enrichment program


-- Voluntary restrictions on foreign travel of 12 officials
linked to Iran's nuclear and ballistic missile programs


-- Voluntary freeze on overseas assets of those 12 officials and
10 institutions directly linked with or providing support for
Iran's nuclear and ballistic missiles activities.


Resolution 1747 also contains an annex detailing the package of
economic and diplomatic incentives which Britain, China, France,
Germany, Russia and the United States offered Iran in June in
exchange for a freeze of its uranium enrichment activities.


The six powers offer:


-- to reaffirm Iran's right to develop nuclear energy for
peaceful purposes and support for development by Iran of a civil
nuclear energy program


-- commit to support actively the building of new light water
reactors in Iran through international joint projects


-- to negotiate and implement a nuclear cooperation agreement
between the European Atomic Energy Community (EURATOM) and Iran


-- provide cooperation with the management of spent nuclear fuel
and radioactive waste through appropriate arrangements


-- give legally binding, multi-layered fuel assurances based on
participation as a partner in an international facility in Russia
to provide enrichment services for a reliable fuel supply to
Iran's reactors


-- establish on commercial terms a buffer stock to hold a reserve
of up to five years' supply of nuclear fuel dedicated to Iran


-- improve Iran's access to the international economy, markets
and capital through support for full integration into the World
Trade Organization and other international structures and
creating a framework for increased direct investment in Iran and
trade with Iran


-- promote civil aviation cooperation, including the possible
removal of restrictions on US and European makers regarding the
export of civil aircraft to Iran


-- Cooperate in the fields of high technology and other areas to
be agreed upon


-- Support a new conference to promote dialogue and cooperation
on regional issues.

