

German sports car maker Porsche said Saturday it intended to
raise its stake in Volkswagen to a level which would
automatically trigger a takeover bid.


Porsche said it would increase its share in Europe's biggest
carmaker to up to 31 percent from its current level of 27.3
percent stake.


Under German law, a 30-percent stake in a company obliges the
holder to make a full takeover bid.


But a Porsche spokesman said it was not seeking to take a
majority stake in Volkswagen in the immediate future.


The Porsche statement said that only the minimum price prescribed
by law would be part of its mandatory offer, which is expected to
amount to 100.92 euros per VW ordinary share.


With VW shares closing at 117.70 euros in trading in Frankfurt on
Friday, few shareholders are likely to accept Porsche's offer.


Porsche, which had previously denied growing rumours of a
takeover move, said in a statement after an extraordinary board
meeting that the "move was a logical step in order to better meet
the challenges of facing up to the global challenges of a highly
competitive car market."


It appears to be an attempt by Porsche to protect VW from a
hostile raid from another source.


The timing is significant because a European court is expected to
rule soon against a German law dating from 1960 which caps the
voting rights of shareholders at 20 percent, even if they own a
greater share.


The European Commission believes the law violates EU legislation.


Porsche's intention to raise its stake also confirms its desire
to tighten its control of a company with which it has close
historical and industrial links.


Porsche and VW developed the Cayenne and Touareg four-wheel-drive
models in a joint venture, and two senior Porsche executives sit
on the VW board.

