

Prime Minister Tony Blair was this week to take on Britain's
worst criminals, targeting 500 "Mr Bigs", a newspaper reported
Sunday.


Blair was to announce Monday he is going after Britain's biggest
gangsters, drug barons and robbers, with proposals to curb their
freedom for life next time they are caught offending.


They could be forced by a judged to undergo drug treatment, be
barred from associating with other known criminals and face
permanent police surveillance -- with any breach potentially
landing them in jail for three years.


The proposals were to be set out in the latest report of Blair's
six-month policy review.


"We want to tackle those criminals who are doing the most damage
to society," a source in Blair's Downing Street office told the
News of the World.


"We know who they are. We want them to know the law will be
breathing down their neck all the time."


Other laws would make it easier for police to seize the assets of
such criminals once convicted.


"These Mr Bigs can no longer think their bling (flashy asset
haul) is out of reach because they have given it to their wives,"
the source said.


The weekly tabloid said Downing Street reckons the 500 were
responsible for 5,000 crimes per week on average.


"Tough on crime, tough on the causes of crime" was one of Blair's
mantras before winning power in 1997. He is keen to cement his
legacy before he quits office as promised within the next six
months.


The main opposition Conservatives attacked the plans.


"Without extra prison places this amounts to nothing more than
trying to grab a headline without doing anything to address the
serious crime on our streets," said home affairs spokesman David
Davis.

