

A storming second half saw Slovakia battle back from a goal down
to emphatically beat 10-man Cyprus 3-1 in their Euro 2008 Group D
qualifying match here on Saturday.


Winger Efstathios Aloneftis gave the home side the lead on the
stroke of half- time - almost immediately after Cyprus went down
a man as keeper Michael Morphis saw red when he clattered Dusan
Svento.


Svento had beaten the offside trap with only the keeper to beat
when Morphis rushed outside his area and scythed the Slovak
midfielder on 41 minutes.


Alofentis scored from a swift counter in which Costas
Charalambides ran the length of the field to see his shot parried
to his unmarked teammate who finished off the move.


Parity was restored when Robert Vittek hit a rasping drive from
the edge of the area after 54 minutes.


Fears that Cyprus would crumble under a wave of Slovak attacks
were realised when Martin Skrtel volleyed high into the roof of
the net as replacement keeper Antonis Georgalides failed to deal
with a cross on 67 minutes.


This was followed by a third - and killer blow - when Martin
Jakubko scored with a cushion header ten minutes later.


Slovakia had looked dangerous on the counter with Jakubko,
proving a handful for the Cypriot defence, missed from close
range with only 13 minutes on the clock. Slavia Prague's Svento
also wasted a golden opportunity to equalise before the half-time
whistle when he blasted over the bar from six-yards.


With Cyprus going into the game without star strikers Michalis
Constantinou and Yiannakis Okkas, both of Olympiakos Pireaus, the
Cypriots relied heavily on the pace and guile of Aloneftis,
before coming unstuck.


Cyprus had been looking to avenge a 6-1 thrashing away to
Slovakia in the opening game of the group last September and
build on an impressive home record which saw them draw 1-1 with
group favourites Germany and thump Ireland 5-2.

