

Northern Ireland's main Catholic party urged their Protestant
rivals Saturday to make an about-turn and talk to them directly
to save the prospect of cross- community self-rule in the
province.


Gerry Adams, the president of Catholic socialists Sinn Fein, said
the Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) could only persuade them
through direct dialogue if they wanted agreement on delaying
power-sharing by six weeks.


The British government has set a midnight Monday (2300 GMT)
deadline for forming an executive, with the local Northern
Ireland Assembly to be dissolved and the province run from London
indefinitely if no agreement is reached.


The DUP refuses to talk to Sinn Fein -- and the political
representatives of Protestant paramilitaries -- because it does
not feel the party is fully committed to democracy: a major
stumbling block to the DUP agreeing to power- sharing.


Sinn Fein is the political wing of the Irish Republican Army,
which was responsible for hundreds of deaths before it renounced
paramilitarism in 2005.


"If the DUP wants a functioning assembly after March 26, this can
only happen through direct dialogue and agreement with Sinn Fein
and the other parties," Adams said.


"All of the other parties are ready for government.


"There are no outstanding issues.


"The DUP seeks to frustrate the will of the electorate. It cannot
be allowed to block or delay progress.


"Peter Hain (Britain's Northern Ireland secretary) has majored on
his commitment to devolution or dissolution by Monday. He needs
to keep to this."


DUP sources said the conservative party wants a six-week delay
for them to agree to form a power-sharing government.


Some 90 percent of the 120-member DUP executive meeting in
Belfast on Saturday want Prime Minister Tony Blair to agree to
the delay, the officials, who spoke anonymously, said.


The London government also wants the DUP to put forward its
nominations for ministerial posts by midnight Saturday (0000 GMT
Sunday).

