

One person was killed and 40 others injured Sunday when a
7.1-magnitude earthquake rocked Japan's main island of Honshu,
sparking a tsunami alert, officials said.


The quake occurred at around 9:42 am (0042 GMT), with the
epicentre located about 300 kilometres (200 miles) northwest of
Tokyo, off the Noto peninsula in Ishikawa prefecture, the Japan
Meteorological Agency said.


"We have confirmed one death following the earthquake, but we
need more time to get further information, including the victim's
identification," said a spokesman for Ishikawa Police Department.


National broadcaster NHK reported that the victim was a woman,
adding that some 40 people were taken to hospital for treatment
in the city of Wajima, located on the peninsula.


NHK reported that local police have received several reports of
collapsed buildings, and that phone service in the affected area
had been disrupted.


Meteorologists issued the tsunami warning for the coast of the
Noto peninsula facing the Sea of Japan (East Sea), urging
residents to head to higher ground.


The first wave measuring 10 centimetres (four inches) hit the
coast about 20 minutes after the quake, NHK reported, but
meteorologists warned that waves of up to 50 centimetres could be
seen.


In the city of Nanao, officials said they had received reports of
a fire and a ruptured water main, but no reports of casualties,
Jiji Press said.


In Tokyo, the government set up a special office to collect
information about possible tsunami waves.


Japan lies at the junction of four tectonic plates and endures
about 20 percent of the world's most powerful earthquakes, which
frequently jolt Tokyo and other major cities.


The country prides itself on having one of the world's most
accurate systems for assessing earthquakes and predicting
tsunamis.

