

Asian stocks were little changed in quiet holiday business
Friday, with most bourses closed while those that were open
traded cautiously ahead of key US jobs data due later in the day,
dealers said.


They said investors were largely squaring positions ahead of the
long Easter holiday weekend, anxious that they not be caught out
should the US employment report contain any unpleasant surprises.


US non-farm payrolls are expected to show a rise of about 135,000
in March after a 97,000 gain in February, according to Wall
Street forecasts.


Recent US data has been mixed and the markets would like to get a
clearer lead on the US economic outlook after the recovery made
over the past month following the global equity turmoil seen in
early March.


TOKYO: share prices closed flat as investors waited for the
release of key US jobs data later in the day, dealers said.


They said that with many overseas markets closed for the Good
Friday holiday, investors in Tokyo were also taking a breather.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
fell 6.64 points to 17,484.78. The TOPIX index of all issues on
the Tokyo Stock Exchange's first section shed 3.64 points or 0.21
percent to 1,717.08.


Decliners beat gainers 1,007 to 551, with 168 stocks unchanged.


Volume fell to 1.78 billion shares from 2.14 billion on Thursday.


The softer tone of the yen, as well as a steady close on Wall
Street, helped send shares higher in early trade.


Buying, however, ran out of momentum and gave way to broad-based
selling by speculators squaring positions ahead of the weekend,
dealers said.


"Speculative players sold to square positions ahead of the
weekend while many investors stayed on the sidelines in the
absence of fresh trading incentives and (ahead of) key US
economic data," said Hiroichi Nishi, an equities official at
Nikko Cordial Securities.


Investors want to look closely at the US jobs data following a
slew of weak US figures which have fanned jitters over the pace
of the US economic slowdown, dealers said.


HONG KONG: Closed


SEOUL: South Korean share prices edged up 0.14 percent to hit a
record high on sustained foreign investor interest and Wall
Street's steady performance overnight, dealers said.


They said that with most markets in the region closed for the
Easter holiday, there was no real lead to follow but volume was
nonetheless substantial.


Hopes or strong first quarter corporate results have underpinnned
the recent advance but this could be tested shortly as the
figures come through.


The KOSPI index added 2.11 points at 1,484.15, off a low of
1,477.69 and a high of 1,488.58. Volume was 306.8 million shares
worth 3.24 trillion won (3.47 billion dollars). Rises outnumbered
falls by 403 to 356.


Foreign and retail investors were net buyers of shares worth
180.5 billion won and 26.3 billion won while institutions were
net sellers of 239.4 billion won.


"The first-quarter corporate results are expected to come in
better than a year ago or a quarter ago, helping the market
sustain its record-breaking rally," Shinyoung Securities' analyst
Kim Se-Jung said.


TAIPEI: Closed


SHANGHAI: Chinese share prices rose 0.13 percent for another
record finish despite a further hike in bank reserve requirements
as the government seeks to cool the fast growing economy, dealers
said.


The People's Bank of China said Thursday the required deposit
reserve ratio for commercial lenders would rise by 0.5 percentage
points to 10.5 percent after two similar increases this year and
three in 2006.


Dealers said the market managed to shrug off early credit-
tightening fears and returned to positive territory on the back
of sustained strong fund inflows.


The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index, which covers both A- and
B-shares, added 4.45 points at 3,323.59. Turnover continued heavy
at 121.98 billion yuan (15.8 billion dollars).


The Shanghai A-share Index was up 4.59 points or 0.13 percent to
3,492.96 on turnover of 121.38 billion yuan and the Shenzhen
A-share Index put on 13.29 points or 1.45 percent at 929.39, also
a record, on turnover of 65.48 billion yuan.


"The market saw some corrections in early trade after the central
bank reserve ratio hike but the weakness was offset by recent
strength in the yuan that helped attract fresh funds," said Zeng
Bo, an analyst at Changjiang Securities.


Dealers said the reaction overall was very muted, contrary to
some forecasts that the market would have sold off more sharply,
with investors apparently seeing no threat in the central bank's
move.


They said the decision will remove some 170 billion yuan in
liquidity from the banking system but it seems unlikely to have
much of an impact after the market shrugged off the earlier
tightening and three interest rate hikes.


"Unless there is major market-impacting news, such as the US
launching military action against Iran, the stock market will
maintain its strength in the near future," said Wu Dazhong, an
analyst at Shenyin Wanguo Securities.


SYDNEY: Closed


SINGAPORE: Closed


KUALA LUMPUR: Malaysian share prices closed little changed in
thin trade, with major markets were closed for the Easter
holidays and as investors stayed on the sidelines ahead of the
weekend, dealers said.


The Kuala Lumpur Composite Index was up 1.44 points or 0.11
percent at 1,278.92. Gainers led losers 518 to 338, with 318
stocks unchanged. Volume was was 1.47 billion shares worth 1.48
billion ringgit (410 million dollars). Gains led losers 518 to
338, with 318 stocks unchanged.


Trading volume was thin, but "this should not be a surprise given
that most of the other major markets are on holiday," said
Aseambankers Research investment analyst Tee Sze Chiah.


BANGKOK: Closed


JAKARTA: Closed


MANILA: Closed


WELLINGTON: Closed


MUMBAI: Closed

