

The Russian parliament condemned on Friday an order by Ukrainian
President Viktor Yushchenko to dissolve parliament, saying it
violated the constitution and "sends the most dangerous signal".


"Deputies share the assessments of Ukrainian lawmakers and
constitutional law experts that this decree contradicts relevant
articles of the Ukrainian constitution," the lower house, or
Duma, said in a declaration, adopted by a vote of 342 to three.


The declaration echoed the position of Ukrainian Prime Minister
Viktor Yanukovych. He has favored strong bonds with Russia and
rejected the decree from Yushchenko, a politician who came to
power promising to turn Ukraine away from Russia and build closer
ties with the West.


The Duma said Western governments and international institutions
such as the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe
(OSCE) that judged Ukraine's parliamentary elections last year to
have been free, fair and fully democratic must now stand up to
Yushchenko's attempt to disband the legislature.


They "should take a really principled position and firmly voice
solidarity with the Ukrainian lawmakers in the face of what is a
challenge to the idea of parliamentarianism itself," the
declaration said.


"The Ukrainian presidency is sending the most dangerous signal to
political forces to act outside of a legal framework," it stated.


Yushchenko's dissolution order on Monday brought to a head a
months-long political crisis that has pitted the pro-Western
president against pro-Russian forces that dominate the
parliament.


Yanukovych supporters have been demonstrating in central Kiev
against the order, in scenes reminiscent of a 2004 popular
uprising known as the Orange Revolution.

