

Murdered Pakistan cricket coach Bob Woolmer's wife Gill said in
an interview published Friday that police investigating her
husband's death were doing a "good job," and said that she wanted
the inquiry brought to a "speedy conclusion."


Gill Woolmer, 58, also told The Times that any book that her
husband may have been working on "is not worth publishing"
because of the hurt it may cause.


Woolmer was found dead in his hotel room in Kingston, Jamaica, on
March 18, a day after cricketing superpower Pakistan suffered a
shock defeat at the hands of minnows Ireland, knocking them out
of the World Cup.


Jamaican police said Woolmer was strangled to death but have yet
to identify the killers.


"Obviously I have not met Mark Shields (the officer in charge of
the investigation), but he seems to be doing a good job," Gill
Woolmer told the daily, speaking from her home in Cape Town.


"He is under stress and is tired and requires help because there
are so many things to look into. We need to bring this to a
speedy conclusion."


She also told the paper that Bob was not keeping a World Cup
diary, but was planning to write a book on his time as coach of
Pakistan's cricket team.


She added, however, that it "is best if that book never appears
now. If it is going to cause upset, it is not worth publishing."


Woolmer's death last month provoked suspicion of the role of
match-fixing, but Gill Woolmer said that in e-mails she had
received from her husband, "there is not even a hint in them of
his being scared, or of anything to do with match- fixing."


In the interview, she also spoke of how she was not keen on
Woolmer even taking the job in the first place, telling The
Times: "I said to him, 'I cannot believe you are thinking of
doing this'."


"He knew the Pakistan side fluctuated in form, but he liked a
challenge, and no one else tried to prevent him taking the job."

