

Bangladesh's crack security force has arrested 10 members of a
new Islamic militant group in a series of raids across the
country, a senior officer said Friday.


"We arrested (Thursday) 10 militants after raiding their dens in
the capital Dhaka, (southern) Barisal and northern Bhaluka town,"
said Rapid Action Battalion (RAB) senior officer Babul Akhter.


"They all belong to a newly formed Islamic militant group called
Hijbe Abu Omar. They said they formed the group after deserting
the Islamic militant group Harkatul Jihad."


Bangladesh banned Harkatul Jihad after blaming it for a spate of
bombings at cinemas and non-governmental organisation offices.


RAB said the new group had links to another banned Muslim
militant outfit, Jamayetul Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB), which is
also accused of series of nationwide bombings since August 2005.
At least 28 people including four suicide bombers were killed in
the blasts.


Police caught the top JMB leaders and they were hanged late last
month after being sentenced to death over the murder of two
judges in a campaign to force the country to adopt strict Islamic
or Sharia law.


RAB admitted little had been known about the new group, but those
arrested confessed under interrogation that it was involved in
kidnappings.


"Kidnapping is one of their strategies of raising their funds.
They (also) said they trained young men with an aim to send them
to battlegrounds abroad," said Akhter.


Bangladesh's emergency rule government which came to power in
January has pledged to crack down on Islamic militancy as well as
corruption and has arrested scores of high-profile people.

