

Japanese share prices dropped 0.31 percent in morning trade
Friday as investors continued to pocket recent gains ahead of the
release of key US jobs data, dealers said.


They said that with many overseas markets closed for the Good
Friday holiday, investors in Tokyo were also taking a breather.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
fell 54.38 points to 17,437.04 by lunch.


The TOPIX index of all issues on the Tokyo Stock Exchange's first
section shed 8.39 points or 0.49 percent to 1,712.33.


Decliners outnumbered gainers 1,070 to 491, with 160 stocks flat.


Volume fell to 906 million shares from 986 million on Thursday
morning.


"Speculative players sold to square positions ahead of the
weekend while many investors stayed on the sidelines on the
absence of fresh trading incentives and (ahead of) key US
economic data," said Hiroichi Nishi, an equities official at
Nikko Cordial Securities.


Investors are paying close attention to the jobs data following a
slew of weak US figures which have fanned jitters over the pace
of the US economic slowdown, dealers said.


Non-farm payrolls are expected to show a rise of about 135,000 in
March after a 97,000 gain in February, according to Wall Street
forecasts.


Real estate stocks led the decline, with Mitsubishi Estate down
100 yen or 2.76 percent at 3,520 and Mitsui Fudosan down 60 yen
or 1.82 percent at 3,240.


Blue chips in the export-oriented technology and auto sectors
were mostly lower despite the softer tone of the yen which
normally supports exporters. Sony slipped 10 yen or 0.16 percent
to 6,170 and Toyota Motor dipped 20 yen or 0.27 percent to 7,420.


Seven and I Holdings slumped 80 yen or 2.17 percent to 3,610
following a report that the operator of convenience stores and
supermarkets is likely to have missed its operating profit
projection in the fiscal year ended February.


Nintendo rose 600 yen or 1.75 percent to 34,950 on a report the
game giant is likely to post a record current profit of 260
billion yen (2.2 billion dollars) for the year to March thanks to
brisk sales, up 62 percent.

