

The dollar edged up from a two-year low against the euro in Asian
trade Friday as players took to the sidelines ahead of keenly
awaited US jobs data, dealers said.


The euro slipped to 1.3417 dollars in Tokyo afternoon trade from
1.3427 in New York late Thursday, when it had hit 1.3441 dollars,
the highest level since March 2005.


The euro inched up to 159.44 yen from 159.42 yen, while the
dollar rose to 118.85 yen from 118.71.


Dealers said trading was quiet with US, European and many Asian
financial markets closed Friday, even though Washington releases
its nonfarm payrolls report, seen as a critical economic
indicator on the world's largest economy.


"It is difficult to take positions ahead of the release of the US
payrolls data, which is now a key factor ... for financial
markets," Kosuke Hanao, dealer of forex sales at HSBC.


"Some predict stronger figures but we really need to see what
they are," Hanao said.


Non-farm payrolls are expected to show a rise of about 135,000 in
March after a 97,000 gain in February, according to Wall Street
forecasts.


Investors are paying close attention to the jobs data following a
slew of weak US figures which have fanned jitters over the pace
of the US economic slowdown, dealers said.


The Institute of Supply Management's non-manufacturing index fell
in March, while the market had expected it to rise. The release
raised concerns that the US service sector could now face trouble
along with manufacturing.


The euro on the other hand has been buoyed in recent weeks by
positive economic news and favorable interest rate differentials,
analysts said.


"In fact, the euro is near reigning supreme in the foreign
exchange market as holding it is seen as a way to avoid risks,"
Hanao said. "Sentiment for euro- buying is expected to remain
strong for the time being."


The European Central Bank raised its key interest rate to a five-
and-a-half-year high of 3.75 percent last month and has signalled
that a further rise is possible soon.


In contrast, the US central bank appeared to open the door to a
cut in interest rates last month when it kept rates unchanged at
5.25 percent.


The dollar slipped to 1.5128 Singapore dollars from 1.5144 on
Thursday, to 931.05 South Korean won from 936.30, to 32.35 Thai
baht from 32.45 and to 9,098 Indonesian rupiah from 9,126.


It firmed to 48.025 Philippine pesos from 47.950 and to 33.095
Taiwan dollars from 33.065.

