

Chinese share prices ended the Friday morning session narrowly
mixed after the central bank tightened monetary policy again in
an effort to cool the fast growing economy, dealers said.


They said that while the banks were lower, the reaction was very
muted, contrary to some forecasts that the market would have sold
off more sharply following the sixth hike in required reserve
requirements since June last year.


The move also follows three hikes in interest rates as the
authorities try to bring the runaway economy, which grew 10.7
percent in 2006, onto a more sustainable path.


"The market opened significantly lower on worries over the
central bank's move to control liquidity, with most Shanghai-
listed banks taking a hit," said Wu Dazhong, an analyst at
Shenyin Wanguo Securities.


The People's Bank of China said Thursday the required deposit
reserve ratio for commercial lenders would rise by 0.5 percentage
point to 10.5 percent.


The required deposit ratio was raised a similar 0.5 percentage
point in January and February this year and three times in 2006.


Dealers said the move will remove some 170 billion yuan in
liquidity from the banking system but seems unlikely to have much
of an impact after the market shrugged off the earlier
tightening.


"Unless there is major market-impacting news, such as the US
launching military action against Iran, the stock market here
will maintain its strength in the near future," Wu said.


The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index, which covers both A- and
B-shares listed on the Shanghai Stock Exchange, ended the morning
down 1.58 points at 3,317.56, after touching a new high of
3,334.22.


The Shanghai A-share Index slipped 1.80 points at 3,486.56 and
the Shenzhen A-share Index was up 8.43 points or 0.92 percent at
a record 924.52.

