

Chinese athletes were warned Friday to avoid tainting the
national image with doping scandals before and during the 2008
Olympic Games, state media reported.


To reduce the risk of national shame, the sports ministry is
planning to launch a propaganda campaign on eliminating doping, a
senior official was quoted as saying.


"From now until the 2008 Beijing Olympics, all sports departments
under the (sports ministry) should not allow any kind of drug
scandal to happen," Jiang Zhixue, head of the ministry's science
and education department, was quoted as saying in the China
Daily.


"And during the Beijing Olympics it must be made sure that there
are no doping incidents involving national team athletes."


China's sporting reputation was battered by several major drug
busts in the 1990s but has recovered in recent years following a
crackdown by authorities.


Last year the World Anti-Doping Agency praised China's commitment
to the fight against drugs in sport, saying progress had been
made.


However, problems remain, highlighted notably by a sports school
scandal last year.


Authorities who raided the school in northern Lioning province
last August caught teachers injecting teenagers with drugs
including testosterone, a growth hormone often used to build
muscle strength, and EPO, a blood doping agent used in endurance
sports.


They also found nearly 450 bottles of performance enhancing
drugs, some being used by athletes as young as 15.


"To realize the goal of no doping cases we have to promote
related education among players and coaches," Jiang was quoted as
saying.


Chinese doping officials complain that despite rigorous bans and
monitoring from central authorities, sports organisations at
provincial level and below are difficult to monitor.

