

South Korea's leading scientific research centre said Friday it
would be more selective in making papers public after mistakes
were found in an article on the cloning of wolves.


Seoul National University (SNU) said it would not bring papers by
its professors to the media's attention unless they have been
published by leading academic journals.


A team led by Lee Byung-Chun of the university announced last
week it had cloned two wolves in 2005, attracting much publicity.


Lee's paper was later found to contain a simple mistake in
calculating the success rate of his attempts the same year to
clone dogs.


This error understated the past success rate and made the
apparent technical progress the team had made since then more
impressive.


Lee said the mistake was inadvertent and he had asked the journal
in question to correct the figure.


SNU was hit in 2005 by a scandal over disgraced cloning expert
Hwang Woo-Suk. Hwang was hailed as a national hero until a
university inquiry ruled that some of his work on cloning
embryonic human stem cells was fake.


He is now on trial for fraud, embezzlement, ethical breaches and
other charges but has insisted he can still prove he created the
first cloned human stem cells.


The new policy aims to prevent study results that have not been
fully verified from receiving undue publicity, said Kuk Young,
head of SNU's research department.


"Some researchers rush to contact the media for their egoism," he
told AFP.


Lee's team including Hwang created the world's first cloned dog,
named as Snuppy, in 2005. The achievement was verified by SNU and
other authorities.

