

British Airways's Chief Executive Willie Walsh said in an
interview published Friday that he had not contacted the chairman
of rival airline bmi amid rumours BA was interested in taking
over its smaller competitor.


Walsh also told The Guardian that he was not interested in taking
over Spanish national carrier Iberia or Italian carrier Alitalia.


"I have had no contact with him at all and I have read that he is
not selling," Walsh said of bmi's chairman Michael Bishop, who
has a 50 percent stake in bmi.


"It is his airline."


Speculation of BA mounting a bid for bmi was sparked after the
United States and European Union signed an "open skies" agreement
which, among other things, opens up London's Heathrow Airport to
more competition.


BA has the most slots at the airport for trans-Atlantic routes,
and is followed by bmi -- "open skies" would allow bmi to try and
muscle in on the profitable London-New York route.


"I have always said I would have no difficulty competing with bmi
on the trans- Atlantic route. I don't believe in closing off
threats like that," Walsh told The Guardian.


Walsh said, however, that BA would consider bmi if it became
available.


He also told the daily that he was not interested in Iberia,
because bilateral agreements between Spain and Latin American
countries essentially excluded British carriers from buying
routes to South America.


BA's chief reiterated his concerns over the "open skies" deal,
saying that the agreement's failure to open up the United States
domestic market to international competition was a major problem.


"We said that if you give the US what they want, you will not see
them back at the table again. The reaction has proved what we
said. The American response (to liberalising its domestic airline
market) has been no better than tepid."

