

Pro-government tribesmen stormed key bunkers occupied by foreign
Al-Qaeda militants in a Pakistani frontier zone early Friday,
leaving around 20 people dead, security officials said.


Tribal fighters celebrated the capture of the bunkers by firing
tracer rounds in the air that illuminated the sky over Wana, the
main town in the South Waziristan region bordering Afghanistan,
residents said.


The latest deaths bring the toll from fierce clashes in troubled
South Waziristan, which erupted between the two sides on March
19, to around 270, with about 70 of those fatalities in the past
three days.


The government says the tribesmen are trying to drive out Uzbek
and Chechen militants because the foreigners have ties to Al-
Qaeda and are involved in attacks on US and NATO forces in
Afghanistan.


In the major assault late Thursday the tribesmen overran several
bunkers held by Central Asian rebels, which were originally built
by the Pakistani army but vacated in 2005 after tribesmen signed
a peace deal with the government.


"They were very strong bunkers and Uzbek fighters were well
entrenched there. But the tribesmen managed to flush them out,"
local administration chief Mohammad Hassanzada told AFP.


"Some 20 bodies were found lying there before dawn and more
casualties were feared as the fighting continued throughout the
night," a security official said. Sporadic gunfire continued on
Friday morning.


Residents said the dead in the clashes overnight included seven
tribesmen, one of whom was the driver of their main commander,
Mullah Nazir, the former local Taliban leader.


The clashes broke out last month when Nazir ordered the foreign
militants led by Uzbek extremist Tahir Yuldashev, a one-time
confidant of Osama bin Laden, to disarm or leave the area.

