

US plans to deploy elements of a missile defence system in
eastern Europe risk triggering a new international arms race, the
lower house of the Russian parliament said on Friday in a
declaration.


"Such decisions, which are useless in terms of preventing
potential or imaginary threats from countries of the Middle and
Far East, are already bringing about a new split in Europe and
unleashing another arms race," read the declaration, which was
approved unanimously by deputies in the State Duma.


The statement also criticised US military assistance to ex-Soviet
republics Georgia and Ukraine, which it said was aimed at
preparing them to join the NATO military alliance.


Such help is "in essence interference in their internal affairs,
considering that the position of the people of these states has
yet to be completely established," the declaration said.


The United States is also demonstrating a "confrontational
attitude" by building up its forces in the Persian Gulf, the
declaration said.


Russia has repeatedly criticised the United States' plans to
place missile defence equipment in countries that were once part
of Moscow's orbit.


The United States has asked the Czech Republic to host a radar
system and Poland to host interceptor rockets as part of its
missile defence plans.


Washington insists the anti-missile shiled is intended as
protection against attacks from "rogue states" such as Iran and
points out that the proposed system would be useless against
Russia's vast weapons arsenal.


The Duma's criticism reflects worsening relations between Moscow
and Washington in recent months, notably after President Vladimir
Putin said in a speech in Munich in February that the United
States had "overstepped its borders in all spheres."

