

China has tightened its rules on intellectual property theft,
lowering the threshold for "serious offenders" who will face up
to seven years in jail, state media said Friday.


Anyone who produces more than 2,500 discs of movies, music or
computer software is now regarded a serious offender, down from
the previous cut-off level of 5,000 discs, the China Daily
reported.


The new rules, which take effect immediately, were jointly issued
by the Supreme People's Court and the prosecutor's office on
Thursday, according to the report.


The rules also threaten jail of up to three years for anyone
manufacturing 500 discs, whereas in the past this punishment was
only possible if a minimum of 1,000 discs had been produced.


The regulations also allow for stiffer fines to "strip violators
of the economic capability and conditions to commit crime," the
newspaper said.


This means that fines must range from one to five times the
illegal income, or between 50 and 100 percent of the sales value
of the goods produced, it said, without detailing the previous
punishments.


The rules are likely to lead to sharp increase in the number of
copyright infringement cases handled by local courts, the China
Daily said.


After the threshold was lowered in a similar rule change in 2004,
intellectual property right cases shot up 28 percent the
following year, it said.


The rules would seem to address a frequent complaint from
foreigners arguing that China is not doing enough to fight
piracy.


American and European firms have claimed that Chinese companies
are rarely put before the courts for piracy violations and the
few that are, escape with very minor penalties.

