

McDonald's and Kentucky Fried Chicken, under fire for allegedly
underpaying part-time workers, have agreed to set up trade unions
in south China's Guangdong province, a union official said
Friday.


The unions are likely to be set up before the middle of this
year, Hang Yuan, a spokeswoman with the state-controlled All-
China Federation of Trade Unions, told AFP.


The announcement comes after both fastfood chains attracted
widespread attention over the alleged practice of paying part-
time workers in Guangdong's capital Guangzhou up to 40 percent
less than the minimum wage.


"We can draw a lesson from these recent cases that in enterprises
without trade unions, workers' rights and interests can't be
protected," Hang was quoted by the state-run China Daily
newspaper as saying.


Analysts have argued they believe the state-run union might
intend to take advantage of the sentiment stirred up by the
payment case to have trade unions formed at large companies
currently resisting organised labour.


However, the decision to set up the trade unions appeared not to
be directly linked to the underpayment case, which broke only
recently when reported by a Guangdong newspaper.


"The Guangdong Provincial Trade Union started talks with the
companies either last year or at the beginning of this year,"
said Hang.


"It was before the case in Guangzhou was exposed and the
companies at that time promised they would form the trade
unions."


George Gu, a Shanghai-based executive with McDonald's, told AFP
that he was "not clear" about the timetable for establishing the
Guangdong unions although the company had plans to set up trade
unions in their branches in China.


He added the company had already established quite a few trade
unions in some branches in places such as the eastern province of
Jiangsu.

