

Japanese support for rewriting the post-World War II pacifist
constitution, a top priority for Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, has
slipped below 50 percent, a newspaper poll said Friday.


However, supporters of constitutional revision still outnumber
opponents, with some voters undecided, and there is little
enthusiasm for completely renouncing pacifism, the Yomiuri
Shimbun paper said.


The US-imposed 1947 constitution bars Japan from using or even
threatening to use force as a way to settle international
disputes, although the country skirts the rule by calling its
troops "Self-Defence Forces."


Abe has made revising the constitution one of his top priorities.
After taking office in September, he vowed to give the nation a
Japanese-written constitution allowing a military in name within
six years.


The Yomiuri Shimbun survey said 46 percent of Japanese wanted to
amend the constitution, a drop of nine points since a similar
poll taken a year ago before Abe took office.


It is the third straight year that support has fallen, said the
best-selling daily, which surveyed 3,000 people nationwide last
month.


Opponents of constitutional change rose seven points to 39
percent, with the rest undecided or having no opinion, the poll
said.


But 80 percent said it was unnecessary to revise the
constitution's Article Nine -- which declares that Japan will
"forever renounce war as a sovereign right of the nation" -- with
only 14 percent supporting changing it.


Abe has not specified exactly how he envisions the new
constitution.


But a draft proposed by his ruling Liberal Democratic Party in
2005 would give the military a solid legal basis while
maintaining Article Nine.

