

Japan's foreign minister on Friday regretted that the country has
slipped to become the world's third largest donor and voiced
concern about the declining aid budget.


Britain overtook Japan on a list of top donors released Tuesday
by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development.


"It is highly likely that (Japan) will drop further to fourth or
fifht place this year. I'm wondering if that's okay for a
country" which has been in second place, Foreign Minister Taro
Aso told reporters.


The United States remained the top donor, with France ranked
fourth followed by Germany, according to the OECD.


Japan, which is officially pacifist, has relied on development
aid as a key tool of its foreign policy. In recent, years it has
redirected spending to countries, many in Africa, seen as pivotal
in its cherished bid for a permanent seat on the UN Security
Council.


At the same time, Japan's overseas aid expenditure has declined
for the past seven years as the government tries to reduce a huge
fiscal deficit left over from stimulus packages following
recession in the 1990s.


The foreign aid budget is set to shrink another four percent to
729 billion yen (6.2 billion dollars) for the current fiscal year
to March 2008.


The OECD lists nations based on foreign aid budgets in absolute
financial terms.


One popular alternative is the Commitment to Development Index of
the Washington-based Center for Global Development, which adjusts
countries by size and looks at the quality of aid along with
other factors such as openness to trade.


This alternative index last year ranked Japan last among 21
wealthy nations, with the Netherlands coming in first.

