

Three private tiger farms in southern Vietnam will be allowed to
keep 43 of the endangered animals, the government said Friday,
handing the breeders a victory over environmental groups.


Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung decided that, while the owners had
breached a ban on keeping the tigers, they were better equipped
than Vietnam's zoos to take care of the animals which cannot be
released into the wild.


"The prime minister has agreed with the proposal by the Ministry
of Agriculture and Rural Development, allowing the pilot raising
of tigers and some wild animals in Binh Duong (province)," the
ministry said on its website.


The ruling ended an emotional dispute between the owners, led by
outspoken brewery boss and former soldier Ngo Duy Tan, and a
coalition of environmental groups which demanded the enforcement
of Vietnam's wildlife protection laws.


Tan, who also owns bears, gibbons and crocodiles and has
threatened to sue the six environmental groups for libel, has
drawn much public support and the backing of a former prime
minister.


The coalition -- including wildlife trade monitoring network
TRAFFIC, the Worldwide Fund for Nature and the World Conservation
Union -- said the farms breached Vietnam's laws and the
Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild
Fauna and Flora (CITES), which Vietnam has signed.


The treaty aims to stop the use of wildlife products, mainly in
traditional East Asian medicine and as food, an illegal trade in
which Vietnam is both a major destination country and a trans-
shipment hub to China and beyond.


The environmental groups, in a letter to Prime Minister Dung,
stressed that habitat destruction, hunting and the illegal
wildlife trade had pushed tigers "close to extinction in Vietnam"
with only about 100 left in the wild.

