

The UN human rights chief, Louise Arbour, called on Friday for
the Sudanese government to fully investigate rapes reportedly
carried out by soldiers in several villages in Darfur in
December.


The High Commissioner for Human Rights also called on Minni Arkoy
Minnawi, the head of the rebel Sudan Liberation Army (SLA), to
disclose the fate of 19 men who disappeared after they were
arrested by his forces last September.


Arbour's office said in a statement that her monitors in Sudan
had documented at least 15 cases of sexual assault including
rapes in December 2006 in Deribat and eight other villages in the
eastern Jebel Marra area.


The victims were as young as 13 years old and at least two
pregnant women were targeted in the violence, it added. Some were
raped on the spot while other were taken away, raped, and then
released.


"The attackers wore military uniforms and were described by the
victims as soldiers," the statement said.


Arbour called for "an impartial, timely, and transparent
investigation" by Khartoum into the attacks.


"The investigation should aim to collect evidence to identify and
prosecute those who planned, orchestrated, and/or conducted the
attacks," she said.


"The results of the investigation should be made public, legal
action should be taken against those found to be responsible and
the victims of the attacks should be compensated," Arbour added.


In the other case involving the SLA, the UN human rights office
said that 19 men from the Massalit minority were arrested by the
group in Gereida in South Darfur on September 29, 2006.


At least eight of them were found dead several months later.


Minnawi, the SLA chief, is chairman of the Transitional Darfur
Regional Authority following the fragile peace agreement with
Khartoum.

