

President Roh Moo-Hyun said Friday that proficiency in English is
crucial to South Korea's economic survival and vowed to build a
nationwide infrastructure to teach the language.


"English is a must in order to catch up with the globalisation
stream. The biggest competitive edge of Finland and other rapidly
growing advanced countries is English-speaking people," the
president said.


"Korean students spend over 10 trillion won (10.5 billion
dollars) annually on private English study lectures and
programmes, but they are still considered weak in English. The
government will gradually expand investments in social
infrastructure for English education."


Roh was speaking at the opening of an all-day English education
television channel by state-funded EBS-TV.


By 2009, English experience centres would be installed at about
1,300 elementary schools nationwide at a cost of 240 billion won,
Yonhap news agency quoted Roh as saying.


In addition, all domestic middle schools will have at least one
native English- speaking teacher by 2010, he said.


An English education town on the southern island of Jeju with a
capacity of about 9,000 students would be set up in the first
half of the year. "The construction of the Jeju English town will
largely substitute for overseas English study trips by Korean
students," Roh said.


The education ministry said South Korean midfielder Park Ji-Sung
of Manchester United would become a public relations ambassador
for EBS English.


South Korea and the United States on Monday signed a major free
trade agreement. Seoul hopes the pact will eventually upgrade its
industries and service sector to better meet the demands of
globalisation.

