

The Pentagon will call up 12,000 National Guard soldiers for
service in Iraq to fill gaps in the overworked army, a news
report said Thursday.


The National Guard is a volunteer militia, but, said NBC News,
they will receive an involuntary call-up to report for duty in
Iraq.


The Pentagon told AFP it had no immediate comment on the report.


Guard units are based in each US state. Four states will provide
the troops from four brigades, the television network said,
citing unnamed Defense Department sources.


The call-up follows closely President George W. Bush's
controversial "surge" of 21,000 troops, meant to quell the
sectarian violence among Iraqis as well as Al- Qaeda fighters
determined to sow chaos.


However, US troops are being rotated in and out of Iraq,
sometimes without the customary training, sometimes without the
customary 12 months' rest at US bases.


Pentagon sources told NBC that the orders for the deployment
awaited Defense Secretary Robert Gates's approval.


Democrats, who control both houses of Congress, have been trying
to hem in Bush, by conditioning continued war funding on setting
a timeline for drawing down troop levels in Iraq.


The Pentagon said Thursday that some 145,000 US troops are
serving in Iraq.


Some 3,250 US troops have also died in Iraq since the March 2003
invasion, according to an AFP count based on Pentagon figures.


A US Defense Department spokesman said Monday that some 30,000
additional US troops sent as reinforcements to Iraq will remain
in the war-torn country until at least the end of August.


The Pentagon would deploy 7,000 troops to replace units on their
way out of Iraq, a move that will allow the reinforcements to
remain in the country until at least late August, spokesman Bryan
Whitman said.

