

Outspoken Zambian opposition leader Michael Sata is suing the
Malawian government after he was deported without explanation
last month, his lawyer said on Friday.


"We have commenced a judicial review against the ministry of home
affairs and the chief immigration officer for not telling Sata
the reason they deported him when he had complied with all entry
formalities," Malawian lawyer Ralph Kasambara told AFP.


Kasambara, an attorney general in the administration of President
Bingu wa Mutharika until 2006, said his client was on a "business
trip" to Malawi when immigration authorities and police pounced
on him shortly after landing at an airport in Blantyre, the
commercial capital.


Sata was detained for several hours by Malawian police and
deported to Zambia overnight by road and handed over to Zammbian
authorities at the border town of Chipata.


"Malawi violated his (Sata's) consumer rights to fair
administrative justice, infringed upon his freedom of movement
and the right to carry out an economic activity," Kasambara said.


He said "there was no reason for Malawi to deny him entry,"
adding he would be seeking "compensation" from the Malawi
government on behalf of Sata.


Kasambara, now a private lawyer who has handled several
litigations against the government, said:" We will see how the
government will come up with their defence."


Attorney general Jane Ansah was quoted by the Daily Times as
saying she saw a letter Sata wrote to the government seeking an
explanation for being denied entry into Malawi, but had not yet
studied the court documents.


Sata, the leader of Zambia's Patriotic Front party, was runner-up
to Levy Mwanawasa in last year's presidential elections.

