

More than 100 Taliban militants seized control of a mountainous
district in southern Afghanistan's Zabul province early Friday,
the provincial governor's spokesman said.


In a separate incident the Taliban killed five security guards in
an attack on a company working on a highway near Qalat, the
capital city of the same province, spokesman Ghulam Shah Alikhil
told AFP.


Police made a "tactical" withdrawal from the remote Khak Afghan
district after the Islamist rebels attacked the district
headquarters from several directions at once, Alikhil said.


There were no immediate plans in place to retake the district, he
said.


The NATO-led International Security Assistance Force (ISAF),
which has tens of thousands of troops in Afghanistan, said it was
checking the information.


The Afghan interior minister was not immediately available for
comment.


US and Romanian troops are deployed in Zabul, which borders
Pakistan to the southeast.


Afghan officials have repeatedly claimed that militants are using
Pakistan's troubled tribal areas along the frontier as a base for
attacks in Afghanistan. Islamabad says it is taking action
against the insurgents.


The seizure of the district comes at the same time as a massive
offensive launched last month by ISAF and Afghan army troops in
nearby Helmand province, where rebels have held a small town for
nearly two months.


The Taliban, who are leading a bloody insurgency more than five
years after US- led forces toppled them from government, have
also occupied other districts in southern and western Afghanistan
this year.


In most cases foreign and government forces have driven out the
rebels after a short time.

