

An official who spent a decade in charge of real estate
transactions in Shanghai is under investigation for corruption
after his immense wealth raised suspicions, state press reported
Friday.


Yin Guoyuan, the former deputy director of the Shanghai housing,
land and resources administrative bureau, and his wife are being
probed in the latest of a long line of cases that are keeping the
city's anti-graft watchdogs busy.


As bureau deputy director from 1995 to 2005, Yin was in charge of
land-use approvals for China's economic hub, a period that saw an
unprecedented boom in real estate prices, the official Xinhua
news agency said.


"Almost all land transfer contracts required Yin's signature,"
Xinhua quoted an unnamed former bureau employee as saying.


Yin left the bureau in 2005 but came under suspicion as
investigators began looking into widespread graft that reached
the most senior levels of Shanghai's government.


"Yin had allegedly failed to account satisfactorily for his
immense wealth," Xinhua said, citing local government sources,
adding that he owned several apartments.


Xinhua did not say how much he earned but an employee at the
bureau told AFP that Yin's annual salary would have likely been
around 200,000 yuan (25,800 dollars) a year.


No details were given on what charges Yin may face, but the
report referred to one of his subordinates who has already been
accused of taking cash bribes and other kickbacks.


Shanghai's graft scandal has already claimed the scalp of the
city's then Communist Party chief, Chen Liangyu, who was sacked
in September last year for his role in siphoning off nearly 500
billion yuan from the city's pension fund.


More than 20 senior officials and businessmen have been
implicated in the scam, which saw the pension fund money
illegally used for a range of real estate and road investment
projects.

