

Top Indian and Pakistani defence officials were to hold talks
here Friday on the demilitarisation of a glacier in Kashmir where
freezing temperatures have claimed more lives than actual combat.


India has said that "iron-clad" evidence of Pakistani military
positions in the 6,300-metre (20,800-feet) Siachen glacier area
of the disputed region is needed before demilitarisation of the
world's highest battlefield can begin.


A nine-member Indian delegation led by Defence Secretary Shekhar
Dutt arrived in Pakistan late Thursday for talks with Dutt's
newly appointed Pakistani counterpart, Kamran Rasool.


The two-day talks were due to start at 1030 am (0530 GMT), an
official said.


"These parleys are the part of the ongoing process of composite
dialogue between the two countries for resolution of all the
outstanding issues," an official Pakistani statement said.


The "composite dialogue" is the official term for the peace
process launched by the nuclear-armed rivals in January 2004,
centring on their six-decade dispute over the Himalayan territory
of Kashmir.


Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on Thursday called a meeting
of his security cabinet to chalk out a framework for the Siachen
talks.


Singh later told reporters in New Delhi that he was "hopeful" of
a positive outcome when asked about his expectations of the
meeting, the Press Trust of India news agency reported.


"There are immense opportunities. We are working together to
resolve our differences," Singh said.


Pakistan, which like India claims all of Kashmir, is said to fear
that setting out its positions would be tacit acceptance of
India's claims to Siachen and the area as a whole.


The two countries have fought two of their three wars over
Kashmir.


India and Pakistan, which also fought a fierce skirmish on
Siachen in 1987, have held several rounds of discussions on the
glacier since the resumption of peace talks.

