

Hezbollah has offered the first sign that the two Israeli
soldiers, whose capture by its guerrillas sparked last summer's
Lebanon war, are still alive, an Arab-Israel newspaper said on
Friday.


Hezbollah political bureau member Mahmud Qamati told the Arabic-
language Al- Sinara that prisoners currently held by the Lebanese
Shiite party's militia were receiving humane treatment.


That was an implicit reference to Israeli servicemen Eldad Regev
and Ehud Goldwasser, captured last July in a cross-border raid.


"The enemy soldier when he becomes a prisoner receives humane
treatment. This is how our current prisoners are being treated,"
Qamati was quoted as saying.


Goldwasser and Regev are the only known captives in Hezbollah
custody.


In a statement from Beirut, Hezbollah denied the report and said
Qamati had told the newspaper "he was not authorised to speak on
the subject."


But a tape recording of the interview played for AFP suggests
that the newspaper accurately quoted Qamati.


Hezbollah is known for its tough prisoner-negotiating tactics and
has refused to provide any information about the welfare of the
captured soldiers without receiving something in exchange.


Relatives of the two captured soldiers were unmoved by Qamati's
statements.


"If they are so proud that they take care of them and that their
condition is good -- let us see them," Ehud Goldwasser's wife,
Karnit, told Israel's Maariv newspaper.


"We want proof," she added.


In December, Israeli military officials said the two soldiers had
been seriously wounded in the attack that lead to their capture,
and Prime Minister Ehud Olmert has suggested the soldiers may
have died from their wounds.


After the July 12 attack, in which three other soldiers were
killed, Israel launched a pounding air, sea and land assault on
the Shiite militia.


Around 1,200 Lebanese and 160 Israelis died in the month-long war
before a UN- brokered truce was declared on August 14.

