

A suicide bomber detonated a taxi filled with explosives near the
Afghan parliament in the capital Kabul Friday, killing four
people including a policeman and wounding four others, police
said.


The attack was the third suicide blast in the heavily-secured
city this year amid a raging insurgency by the Taliban militia,
which was ousted by US-led forces in late 2001.


The bomber struck a few hundred meters (yards) from the
parliament building, killing three civilians and one policeman,
Kabul criminal investigation police chief General Alishah
Paktiawal told AFP.


"It was a suicide bombing. Four people were killed and four
others were injured. The bomber was driving a yellow and white
taxi," Paktiawal said.


Paktiawal said it was unclear if the bomber was targeting the
parliament building. "An investigation is under way," he said.


Iraq-style suicide attacks are common in southern Afghanistan
where the Taliban- led insurgency is at its strongest, but they
have previously been rare in Kabul.


Four civilians were killed and another 12 wounded when a suicide
bomber targeted an intelligence director's vehicle in Kabul on
March 28. The intelligence official survived.


About a week earlier a suicide attacker rammed an explosives-
filled car into a US embassy convoy in the capital, wounding five
embassy staff and guards and at least three passers-by.


The Taliban has vowed a wave of such blasts this year after
nearly 140 last year across the country killed about 200
civilians and scores of Afghan and foreign security officials.


In the deadliest attack in Afghanistan this year, more than 20
people including two Americans and a South Korean soldier were
killed on February 27 in an attack on the main US base at Bagram,
about 60 kilometres (40 miles) from Kabul, while US Vice
President Dick Cheney was visiting.

