

Japanese share prices closed flat Friday as investors waited for
the release of key US jobs data later in the day, dealers said.


They said that with many overseas markets closed for the Good
Friday holiday, investors in Tokyo were also taking a breather.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
fell 6.64 points to 17,484.78.


The TOPIX index of all issues on the Tokyo Stock Exchange's first
section shed 3.64 points or 0.21 percent to 1,717.08.


Decliners beat gainers 1,007 to 551, with 168 stocks unchanged.


Volume fell to 1.78 billion shares from 2.14 billion on Thursday.


The softer tone of the yen, as well as a steady close on Wall
Street, helped send shares higher in early trade.


Buying, however, ran out of momentum and gave way to broad-based
selling by speculators squaring positions ahead of the weekend,
dealers said.


"Speculative players sold to square positions ahead of the
weekend while many investors stayed on the sidelines in the
absence of fresh trading incentives and (ahead of) key US
economic data," said Hiroichi Nishi, an equities official at
Nikko Cordial Securities.


Investors want to look closely at the US jobs data following a
slew of weak US figures which have fanned jitters over the pace
of the US economic slowdown, dealers said.


Non-farm payrolls are expected to show a rise of about 135,000 in
March after a 97,000 gain in February, according to Wall Street
forecasts.


Investors are also awaiting earnings updates by US and Japanese
firms next week ahead of their reporting seasons later this
month, dealers said.


Retail, real estate and communications stocks led the decline.


Seven and I Holdings slumped 90 yen or 2.44 percent to 3,600
following a report that the operator of convenience stores and
supermarkets is likely to have missed its operating profit
projection in the fiscal year ended February.


Nintendo rose 750 yen or 2.18 percent to 35,100 after the Nikkei
newspaper reported that the games giant is likely to post a
record current profit of 260 billion yen (2.2 billion dollars)
for the year to March, up 62 percent.


On the foreign exchange market, the dollar rose to 118.85 yen in
Tokyo afternoon trade from 118.71 in New York late Thursday.


The euro slipped to 1.3417 dollars from 1.3427 but inched up to
159.44 yen from 159.42.

