

Spanish construction company Acciona said on Friday that it was
considering bidding for Spanish electricity group Endesa, in
partnership with Italian energy group Enel.


"The two groups are studying a project of shared management of
Endesa under the control of Acciona," Acciona said in a statement
to the Spanish financial markets regulator.


The groups, which are already the two biggest shareholders in
Endesa, would launch a takeover offer for the shares in the
company they do not already own.


This would risk permanently derailing a rival offer for Endesa,
Spain's biggest electrcity group, from Germany's E.ON which has
offered 41 billion euros (55 billion dollar) to buy the company.


The battle for control of Endesa has important political
ramifications.


The Spanish goverment has resisted efforts by E.ON to buy the
group, which date back to February last year, and has stressed
the importance of keeping the "strategic" energy sector in
Spanish hands.


A successful takeover by Acciona with Enel as a junior partner
would meet this goal, but would also respect EU laws which
prevent national governments from blocking takeovers on
nationality grounds.


"Although talks have advanced positively, they have not yet ended
with a definitive agreement," Acciona said.


In Italy, Enel said that talks with Acciona were progressing
"positively" but that no agreement had been reached.


Enel added that the takeover offer would go ahead only if E.ON
failed to obtain 50 percent of Endesa's shares in its public bid
which is currently underway.


Italian newspaper Il Sole 24 Ore said that Enel and Acciona could
offer about 41 euros per Endesa share, compared with the 38.75
euros offered in E.ON's bid.


Shares in Endesa had been suspended on Thursday by Spanish market
regulator CNMV amid rumours of a takeover offer by Acciona and
Enel.


Shares in E.ON fell 2.54 percent on the Frankfurt stock exchange
in early trading after the announcement.

