

South Africa, a key contributor to the peace process in the
Democratic Republic of Congo, expressed deep concern Friday about
renewed violence in that country and called for a ceasefire.


"The South African government appeals to all forces in the DRC to
immediately stop fighting" and take part in negotiations, deputy
foreign minister Aziz Pahad told reporters in Pretoria.


President Thabo Mbeki's special envoy to the DRC, local
government minister Sydney Mufamadi, has been in touch with all
concerned parties in the DRC and would travel there as soon as
possible to assess the situation.


"While we have some sense of what is going on, I would be the
first to admit we do not have the total picture," said Pahad,
adding that much of the gunfire was happening around the South
African mission in Kinshasa.


He said that if not stopped immediately, the violence threatened
to "open a Pandora's box for other people to unleash violence in
order to achieve what they believe they failed to get" through
the negotiated settlement yielding the current government, said
Pahad.


Fighting erupted between army troops and guards of defeated
presidential candidate Jean-Pierre Bemba in Kinshasa on Thursday,
killing at least two civilians.


Bemba, the former vice president who lost last year's
presidential election to Joseph Kabila, called for a ceasefire
after the fighting prompted residents to flee their homes and
schools and for ministries to close.


Bemba was on Friday still at the South African compound in
Kinshasa, said Pahad.


Another former rebel leader Azarias Ruberwa was being housed at
another "unspecified mission", the deputy minister said.


South Africa played a leading role in the DRC peace process, with
Mbeki hosting the 2003 signing of a peace deal at the luxury Sun
City casino resort northwest of Pretoria.


The country has about 2,000 troops serving in a United Nations
peacekeeping mission in the DRC.

