

At least 72 people were killed and hundreds injured in an
explosion at an arms depot near Maputo airport in Mozambique, the
government said Friday.


"In total there are 72 dead," said ministry of health spokesman
Ivo Garrido on national television.


"There are about 360 injured," he added.


The country's largest armoury exploded into a series of blasts
near the impoverished neighborhood of Magoanine at around dusk
Thursday on the outskirts of the capital causing widespread panic
in the city.


Exploding weapons in the armoury ignited those around them,
leading to the series of blasts lasting until about 1930 GMT
Thursday.


The explosion of bombs, mines and rounds of ammunition could be
heard around the city and caused a large amount of damage to
nearby buildings, shattering the glass and windows in many
offices.


Witnesses said that several missiles could be seen flying from
distances of up to 30 kilometres (20 miles) from the scene of the
blast.


"It's the biggest armoury in the country. It contains thousands
of tonnes of weapons and ammunition," said Miguel Barreiro, a
United Nations official in charge of the country's disarmament
program.


President Armando Guebuza, speaking on state radio Thursday
night, appealed for calm among the citizens of Maputo following
the explosion.


"Our defence forces are working to assess the situation. We call
upon all our citizens to be calm until the situation is
rectified," Guebuza said in a five minute speech on the national
television channel TvM.

