

Youth members of Zimbabwe's opposition Friday vowed to stand up
against President Robert Mugabe's rule, announcing plans to
continue holding rallies that had been banned by the government.


"We vote to continue holding our rallies and meetings across the
country," Thamsanqa Mahlangu of the Movement for Democratic
Change (MDC) youth wing told reporters.


"It is clear that the banning of meetings, rallies and
demonstrations are unconstitutional because they are against our
basic freedoms of assembly, movement and speech."


The government is waging a crackdown on the opposition in the
country, and two activists were killed and several opposition
leaders badly beaten when police crushed a prayer meeting by
activists on March 11.


The youth members of the opposition have vowed that no amount of
intimidation would make them relent.


"This is the time for us youths of Zimbabwe to stand up and save
our country. The MDC Youth Assembly will not be cowed by threats
of violence. Mugabe must go now," said Mahlangu.


Although Zimbabwean police last month banned the holding of
political rallies on some sections of the capital, Mahlangu said
they would defy the directive staring next week.


"The MDC's roadmap to unblocking the political crisis is very
clear. We shall use peaceful means to mobilise people.


Mahlangu condemned the assault of opposition leader Morgan
Tsvangirai and party spokesman Nelson Chamisa at the hands of
police.


Meanwhile, the Zimbabwe National Students Union president Promise
Mkwananzi, told the same news conference that students were
aggrieved by the "aloofness" of the South African government
toward the crisis in Zimbabwe.


"We challenge (South African President) Thabo Mbeki to take an
active role in the resolution of the Zimbabwe crisis," he said.


"We know Mbeki can not bring troops here, but we believe they
(South Africa) can play a critical role in influencing events
here."

