

Activists from a pro-Kremlin youth group will encourage young
people around Moscow to send text messages of praise to President
Vladimir Putin on Sunday, a spokeswoman said.


The messages will be relayed to a screen on a central Moscow
square and collected in a book to be given to Putin as a gift to
thank him for his seven years in office, Anastasia Suslova from
the Nashi youth group said Friday.


Activists will also hand out mobile phone SIM cards that are to
be activated in case of attempts at organising a revolt against
Putin's rule, Suslova said.


Under the initiative, entitled The President's Secret Messenger,
some 15,000 activists will be sent to 800 places around Moscow,
including every metro stop in the city, Suslova said.


Putin "has completely changed the country.... People should say
something nice, express their gratitude," said Suslova.


Text messages containing "lies" and "criticism that is not
constructive" would not be published, she added.


The youth group Nashi, which loosely translates as "our people,"
is backed by the Kremlin and has organised a number of large
demonstrations to praise Putin and warn about the dangers of a
foreign-backed revolution.


The second part of the initiative, the issuing of SIM cards to be
activated in case of a revolt, is intended as an early warning
system, Suslova said.


Anyone activating such a SIM card will be sent instructions on
how to react, she said.


"You have to activate the card if you hear a politician saying
there is an emergency, if there is a local coup or if foreigners
come to try and organise a revolution," Suslova said.


Analysts say that the creation of groups such as Nashi are a
response to popular uprisings in other ex-Soviet countries
including Georgia, Kyrgyzstan and Ukraine in recent years.


Russia holds parliamentary elections in December and a
presidential election next March at which Putin is due to stand
down.

