

Japanese share prices closed up 0.35 percent on Friday, extending
their winning streak to a fourth trading day as a weaker yen gave
a lift to exporters, dealers said.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's benchmark Nikkei-225 index of leading
shares gained 61.41 points to 17,480.61.


The TOPIX index of all issues on the Tokyo Stock Exchange's first
section advanced 10.14 points or 0.59 percent to 1,741.94.


Decliners beat gainers 852 to 719, with 161 stocks flat.


Volume dropped to 1.90 billion shares from 2.17 billion on
Thursday.


Although the indices posted gains, many investors took a breather
after the market's recent rebound to a three-week high.


"Recent short-covering, which was prompted by a decline in
selling by global funds to hedge against downside risks, has run
out of steam," said an equities official at a Japanese brokerage
firm.


Dealers said some investors were also reluctant to build fresh
positions ahead of the weekend and book-closing next week for the
fiscal year-end.


"The market may trade downwards next week as post-dividend
trading starts ... but the extent of the decline is likely to be
relatively limited," said Masatoshi Sato, strategist at Mizuho
Investor Securities.


Exporters generally advanced on the back of the easier yen.


Isuzu Motor climbed 19 yen or 3.24 percent to 606 while Toyota
Motor finished up 40 yen or 0.51 percent at 7,840.


Mazda Motor rose 8 yen or 1.21 percent to 668 after unveiling
plans to boost global sales to 1.6 million units by the fiscal
year to March 2011.


Banking stocks were in demand. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group
rose 20,000 yen or 1.48 percent to 1.37 million, while Sumitomo
Financial Group gained 20,000 yen or 1.85 percent to 1.10
million.


Real estate firms failed to get a boost from the government's
annual land price survery which showed that the average prices
rose for the first time in 16 years.


Mitsubishi Estate fell 60 yen or 1.57 percent to 3,770 and Mitsui
Fudosan slipped 10 yen or 0.29 percent to 3,390.


On the foreign exchange market, the dollar was steady at 118.18
yen in Tokyo afternoon trade after 118.15 in New York late
Thursday.


The euro was flat at 1.3332 dollars after 1.3333 while firming to
157.49 yen from 157.39.

