

A construction team in southern China began beating villagers at
a hotly disputed real estate project after a worker ran his truck
into a local who later died from injuries, press reports said
Friday.


Villagers on Guanzhou island, Guangdong province, had gathered on
Tuesday to protest the accident and demand compensation when
workers began beating them with iron clubs, Radio Free Asia
reported, citing local press reports.


Up to 14 villagers were injured in the clashes, it said.


The incident was the latest to occur in China, where unrest over
government- backed land grabs have become increasingly common.


The Southern Daily identified the villager who died as Chen
Yongqi, and quoted local government officials as saying that the
construction workers would be brought to justice.


"The villagers demanded that he (the driver) pay compensation for
the injury. Not only did he refuse, he summoned some people to
beat us," Radio Free Asia quoted one witness as saying.


"Things are very bad now."


Since a university development project on Guanzhou island began
more than two years ago, locals have expressed widespread
discontent over the low compensation afforded them as real estate
prices in the prosperous Pearl River Delta have climbed.


The region has been the site of numerous violent protests over
local government- backed land grabs.


These protests have formed a backdrop to rising social discontent
nationwide as the gap between rich and poor has widened during
China's breakneck economic growth.


According to the latest figures from the Ministry of Public
Security, there were 87,000 protests, officially termed "mass
incidents," reported in 2005, up 6.6 percent on 2004 and 50
percent on 2003.


On Wednesday, in neighboring Jiangxi province, police fired tear
gas during violent clashes with hundreds of protesters who
blocked a key railway in protest over a decision to merge two
cities.

