

European stock markets mostly fell on Friday after a mixed
overnight showing in New York, but London was boosted by gains by
oil majors, dealers said.


The British capital's FTSE 100 index of leading shares added 0.12
percent to 6,325.50 points in late morning deals, reversing
earlier losses.


Frankfurt's DAX 30 index slipped 0.11 percent to 6,849.52 points
in early afternoon trade and in Paris, the CAC 40 slid 0.08
percent to 5,593.98.


The DJ Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone blue chip shares decreased
0.17 percent to 4,163.14 points.


The euro stood at 1.3316 dollars.


New York markets had ended mixed on Thursday as the market
digested a powerful rally on Wednesday as investors focused on
prospects for a cut in US interest rates later this year.


Japanese share prices closed higher on Friday, extending their
winning streak to a fourth trading day as a weaker yen gave a
lift to exporters, dealers said.


The oil sector in London was given a shot in the arm by firm
crude prices, which serve to boost oil company profits. Mining
companies were also lifted by strong base metals prices.


British energy giant BP's share price rose 1.42 percent to 536
pence, while Anglo-Dutch peer Royal Dutch Shell saw its 'B'
shares leap 1.22 percent to 1,662 pence.


Crude oil prices held above 62 dollars per barrel in London on
concerns that gasoline or petrol stocks in the United States
could tighten in the run-up to the country's peak-demand summer
driving season.


Elsewhere in Europe, takeover pressure on Spanish energy giant
Endesa rose sharply with a joint approach from Spanish and
Italian companies Acciona and Enel.


The two companies revealed their cross-border ambitions for the
electricity group in a challenge to a contentious offer from
German energy group E.ON.


In Frankfurt, shares in E.ON sank 2.48 percent to 98.82 euros,
but the group said it would maintain its bid.


E.ON has offered 41 billion euros (55 billion dollar) in a public
offer to Endesa shareholders which runs until March 29. Its
approach has been resisted by the Spanish government.


Enel stock slid 0.59 percent to 7.93 euros in Milan, while shares
in Endesa were suspended in Madrid.


Meanwhile, Iberia's share price rose 2.98 percent higher to 3.80
euros after Spanish newspaper El Pais reported that the airline
was the target of takeover interest from two airlines and two
private equity groups.


In New York on Thursday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average gained
0.11 percent to close at 12,461.14 after a big 1.3 percent gain
on Wednesday.


However, the Nasdaq composite dropped 0.17 percent to 2,451.74
while the broad- market Standard and Poor's 500 lost a fractional
0.03 percent to 1,434.54.


In Asia on Friday, Tokyo's benchmark Nikkei-225 index of leading
shares gained 0.35 percent to end the week at 17,480.61 points.


Hong Kong's key Hang Seng Index closed flat at 19,692.64 points.

