

Hong Kong share prices are likely to trade firmer next week on
the back of solid earnings from major companies, dealers said
Friday.


Major groups including China Mobile, Air China, Bank of China,
Hutchison Whampoa and Cheung Kong all posted solid gains in their
2006 results this week.


While investors will continue to watch results announcements from
other corporations next week, dealers said they much will depend
on Wall Street amid conflicting views about the outlook for the
US economy and interest rates.


For the week to March 23, the benchmark Hang Seng Index rose
739.14 points or 3.9 percent to 19,692.64.


"We have to watch the performance in the US market. Sentiment has
improved this week but if US (shares) trade higher next week,
this would be sufficient for Hong Kong to maintain the upside
momentum," said Castor Pang, strategist at Sun Hung Kai Financial
Group.


Among the companies which will report earnings next week are
China Telecom, China Netcom, China Unicom and China's top
offshore oil producer, CNOOC.


Dealers said this Sunday's election of Hong Kong's leader --
inevitably going to the incumbent chief executive Donald Tsang --
will not have any impact on the market.


"The market won't be distracted by the election at all as we know
who the winner would be," referring to Tsang, China's chosen man
seen as a shoo-in for the vote decided by 800 mostly pro-Beijing
elites.


Pang expects the market to hover around the 19,500-point mark
level and it could test 19,800 points.

