

Chinese share prices closed 0.10 percent higher Friday, edging up
for another record finish as early losses were recovered on the
back of sustained capital inflows, dealers said.


They said there was some early profit-taking but underlying buy
interest remained solid, with investors having easily digested a
hike in interest rates last weekend and showing no fear the
authorities will clamp down again.


Volumes were once again very heavy at more than 20 billion
dollars, reflecting inflows of new money into a market that only
three weeks ago plunged nearly nine percent and set global
equities on a roller coaster ride they have only just recovered
from.


The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index, which covers both A- and
B-shares listed on the Shanghai Stock Exchange, added 3.06 points
to a record 3,074.29 on turnover of 104.61 billion yuan (13.50
billion dollars).


The Shanghai A-share Index was up 3.25 points or 0.10 percent at
3,230.27 on turnover of 104.07 billion yuan and the Shenzhen
A-share Index rose 9.11 points or 1.08 percent at a record
853.16, on turnover of 55.91 billion yuan.


"The market saw some profit-taking earlier after the key index
failed to remain above the 3,100 point level (Thursday) but the
buying interest was still strong enough," said Wang Jun, an
analyst at Merchants Securities.


Dealers said the market now looks to be on a firmer footing and
momentum could pick up on a rising yuan and improving corporate
profitability.


"Fresh money is still flowing in on the back of a strong yuan and
expectations of growing corporate profits for this year," said Wu
Dazhong, an analyst at Shenyin Wanguo Securities.


Metals stocks were supported by higher underlying prices. China
Tungsten and Hightech Materials was up 1.12 yuan or 8.15 percent
at 14.87 and Huludao Zinc Industry rose by its 10 percent daily
limit to 11.23.


Retailers were in favor on hopes for improved earnings due to
growing consumption, dealers said. Beijing Xidan Market rose 10
percent to 8.42 yuan and Shenyang Commercial City was up 0.48
yuan or 7.32 percent at 7.04.


Financial stocks were weighed down by profit-taking, with Hong
Yuan Securities down 0.63 yuan or 2.92 percent at 20.95.


Bank of China fell 0.04 yuan or 0.76 percent at 5.20 on profit-
taking after its 2006 results announcement.


Laiwu Steel Corp was down 0.47 yuan or 3.35 percent at 13.57
despite announcing a sharp jump in 2006 net profit.


The Shanghai B-share Index fell 0.09 points to 177.90 on turnover
of 534.84 million US dollars and the Shenzhen B-share Index was
down 1.36 points or 0.27 percent at 507.43 on turnover of 427.08
million Hong Kong dollars (55.11 million US dollars).

