

A South Korean presidential panel on Friday removed a year-old
ban on research into the cloning of human embryonic stem cells,
officials said.


The research had been banned since early last year after
scientist Hwang Woo-Suk was found to have faked part of his work
into the cloning of human stem cells.


The National Bioethics Committee voted to allow research into
cloned embryonic stem cells on condition that only human eggs due
to be destroyed at infertility clinics be used.


"Research into the cloning of embryonic stem cells will be
allowed but conditionally," said Cho Han-Ik, deputy head of the
committee.


Of its 19 members, 12 including government representatives and
scientists voted to lift the ban. The others, including law
experts, a Roman Catholic priest and a female rights activist,
objected or abstained.


The committee had originally planned to reach a decision on the
issue in late November, but delayed a vote due to sharp
divisions.


It is unclear whether Hwang would be allowed to resume his
controversial research.


The government banned Hwang from research using human eggs after
his claims to have created the first human stem cells through
cloning were ruled as bogus by Seoul National University in
January 2006.


Hwang is now on trial for embezzlement and fake research but has
insisted in court that he could still prove he created the first
cloned human stem cells.


He made a quiet comeback in December, focusing on research into
animal organ transplants at a new laboratory, his lawyer Lee
Geon-Haeng has said.


Lee said Hwang still wanted to resume human embryonic stem cell
research.  Stem cells obtained from cloned human embryos are in
theory capable of treating currently incurable diseases such as
Alzheimer's and diabetes.

