

EU regulators have suspended their antitrust probe into the
merger that created music giant Sony BMG because the companies
have failed to provide requested information, the European
Commission said Friday.


"The clock has stopped on this case until such time as the
information is received," the European Union's competition
watchdog said in a statement.


EU regulators were supposed to rule on the merger before July 2
but the halt means that the decision is now likely to come later,
a spokesman said.


After first approving the merger in July 2004, the Commission has
had to reopen an antitrust review of the deal after the EU's
second-highest court found that the regulators' initial ruling
was flawed.


After the court's embarrassing decision against the Commission,
regulators are eager to make sure that their second ruling on the
merger is watertight.


"Following the (court) ruling, the Commission has engaged in an
extremely complex data collection exercise to be able to satisfy
the demanding requirements of this judgement," it said.


The Commission said that the case was unique because there was a
small number of players in the market and because the industry
was seeing major upheaval due to the "digitalisation" of music
and shifting "consumer behaviours."


The independent producers' association Impala successfully
appealed against the original approval of the deal on the grounds
that consolidation in the music publishing industry had given the
music majors a stranglehold on CD prices and artists' contractual
terms.


The case is being closely watched by both small independent
labels and the majors after Warner revived plans earlier this
month to buy EMI if Sony BMG gets the go-ahead again.


Impala has said that it will not challenge a Warner-EMI deal
after receiving assurances that the pair would take measures to
ensure that small independent labels were not crowded out of the
market.

