

The dollar firmed against the euro but fell against the yen on
Friday before the release of key housing data in the United
States.


The euro sagged to 1.3318 dollars in early European trading, from
1.3328 dollars late in New York on Thursday.


The dollar pulled back to 117.72 yen in European trade, from
118.07 yen late on Thursday.


"The US housing sector will be in the limelight today, with the
February existing home sales scheduled for release," said Audrey
Childe-Freeman, economist at the Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce in London.


The numbers will be watched closely as the US housing market's
instability is seen by many to be the weak link that may trigger
a wider and more severe slowdown in the United States economy,
dealers said.


"Overall, we look for continued deterioration in housing market
conditions and a widening impact on the rest of the economy,"
said Mitul Kotecha at Calyon.


A fall in house prices, he added, would have a negative impact on
wealth and spending.


Meanwhile Friday, traders reduced their expectations of a near-
term cut in American interest rates after the US Federal Reserve
held American borrowing costs at 5.25 percent on Wednesday.


Dealers said that after digesting the Fed's remarks Wednesday,
the market view now was that the US central bank was unlikely to
loosen its monetary policy any time soon, given lingering
inflation concerns.


The dollar had fallen to a two-year low of 1.3411 against the
euro after the Fed tweaked its policy statement in a move
initially taken as a sign that it was laying the ground for a
rate cut. Dealers later reconsidered that view.


"Market sentiment was that inflationary concerns remain, reducing
speculation of a near-term rate cut, which led traders to
actively buy the dollar," said Yoshifumi Suzuki, forex dealer at
Hachijuni Bank.


"But that is only a view that the market has of the situation.
Traders have now readjusted their positions as they look ahead to
(US) housing and GDP (gross domestic product) figures next week,"
he added.


The euro was changing hands at 1.3318 dollars, against 1.3328
dollars on Thursday, 156.81 yen (157.39), 0.6779 pounds (0.6787)
and 1.6175 Swiss francs (1.6187).


The dollar stood at 117.72 yen (118.07) and 1.2143 Swiss francs
(1.2143).


The pound was being traded at 1.9648 dollars (1.9643).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold nudged down to
662.20 dollars per ounce, from 663 dollars late on Thursday.

