

Anastasia Ermakova and Anastasia Davydova stretched Russia's gold
monopoly to five out of six synchronised swimming events with
victory in the duet free at the world championships here Friday.


The two Anastasias displayed the huge gulf existing between them
and their rivals with an exquisite performance netting them
99.333 points.


Spain were second with 97.667 with Japan third with 97.333.


Russia's only loss in the synschronised swimming was to French
star Virginie Dedieu in the solo free final on Thursday.


"We like the competition and we like the fight because we can
prove that our hard work has paid off," Davydova said.


"Our routine was very good and lyrical. Perfect like a fairytale.
We wanted it to be a little more serious but it was still a
beautiful thing.


"We used a lot of effort and emotion to follow the music."


The Russian duet secured gold in the duet technical event on
Tuesday and they were far superior to their rivals.


Gemma Mengual Civil and Paola Tirados Sanchez claimed the silver
medal for Spain with Japan's Ayako Matsumura and Emiko Suzuki
taking bronze on their debut as a duet, with regular duet swimmer
Saho Harada not competing in the event.


Mengual lifted her medal tally to 11 to break the record for most
medals won in synchronised swimming, without ever winning a world
title.


"Our duets are very different and we are different types of
swimmers," Mengual said of the Russians. "We are artistic and
flexible but they are stronger and more synchronised, like
robots. But they deserved to win."


China finished fourth and Jiang Wenwen said there was much to do
ahead of next year's Beijing Olympics.


"The Japanese are very strong and they have a lot of power,"
Jiang said.


"Even though we were better than them at the (2006) Asian Games
we definitely have a lot to learn from them, and hopefully we'll
get to achieve a medal at the 2008 Beijing Olympics."

