

Israel's main right-wing Likud party would win a new election if
deeply unpopular Prime Minister Ehud Olmert and Defence Minister
Amir Peretz remain at the head of their parties, according to a
poll released on Friday.


If Olmert still headed his centrist Kadima party and Peretz his
centre-left Labour, a new election would hand 35 seats in the
120-member parliament to Likud headed by former premier Benjamin
Netanyahu, said the poll in the Maariv daily. Likud currently has
12 mandates.


Kadima would receive 13 seats, a sharp fall from the current 29,
and Labour would receive 13, compared with the current 19.


But Kadima and Labour would fare much better if their leadership
changed, the poll showed.


With Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni at the head of Kadima and
former head of the Shin Beth domestic security Ami Ayalon heading
Labour, the two parties would receive 25 and 23 seats,
respectively. Likud headed by Netanyahu would get 23.


With Livni heading Kadima, Netanyahu heading Likud and former
premier Ehud Barak heading Labour, the three parties would
receive 27, 23 and 20 seats, respectively.


Under all three scenarios, the ultra-nationalist Yisrael Beitenu
party would come in fourth, getting between 14 and 16 mandates,
up from with the 11 it has today.


Olmert and Peretz have watched their popularity crash following
last year's inconclusive war in Lebanon and amid a string of
corruption scandals involving the premier and senior members of
his government.


A poll published by the mass-selling Yediot Aharonot earlier this
month showed that only two percent of Israelis trust Olmert.


Friday's poll was carried out by TNS Teleseker and has a
4.5-percent margin of error.

