

German Chancellor Angela Merkel, whose country holds the current
European Union presidency, called for the gradual creation of a
European army, in an interview published Friday.


"We need to move closer to a common European army in the EU,"
Merkel told the top-selling daily Bild ahead of weekend
celebrations of the 50th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome which
laid the foundation for the EU.


"The European Commission will have more room to manoeuvre with
clearly defined responsibilities," she added in response to the
question of how Europe will look in another 50 years.


But Merkel said she did not expect the emergence of a European
federal state, even in the distant future.


"We will maintain the diversity of the national states," she
said.


Merkel, European Commission chief Jose Manuel Barroso and
European Parliament president Hans-Gert Poettering are to sign on
Sunday a Berlin Declaration hailing past successes of the EU and
outlining common principles and goals in the presence of the
leaders of the other 26 member states.


She said the EU was born in the postwar era with the dream of "a
common Europe after the horrible experiences of the world war
started by Hitler's Germany," she said.


"The idea of European unification is still a question of war and
peace today. We should never take peace and democracy for
granted, even if the longest period of peace in the history of
Europe has become familiar reality thanks to the European Union."


Merkel, a conservative who was raised in former communist East
Germany, said the European way of life could be summed up in one
word: tolerance.


"Our model in Europe aims for balance and community. That means,
for example, that top earners pay a higher rate of taxes and that
we have a solid social welfare system," she said.


"But we need to make sure that social security is linked to
individual freedom and responsibility. And we will have to stand
up for our values because the world is constantly changing."

