

North and South Korea have discussed a possible visit to
Pyongyang by former president Kim Dae-Jung, a senior South Korean
official said Friday, amid speculation he may try to arrange a
summit.


"We held talks with North Korea in both official and unofficial
channels," Unification Minister Lee Jae-Joung told a
parliamentary committee.


"We'll proceed with his (Kim's) visit considering he is a
significant figure who held the first inter-Korean summit talks
and fostered peace, and he will not travel as a private citizen,"
Lee was quoted by Yonhap news agency as saying.


The main opposition party suspects that current President Roh
Moo-Hyun is trying to arrange a summit with North Korean leader
Kim Jong-Il to improve the prospects of his preferred candidate
in the December presidential election.


Roh's office says it is too early to talk about a summit and any
such meeting would depend on the North's progress towards nuclear
disarmament.


Kim Dae-Jung, now 81, travelled to Pyongyang and met Kim Jong-Il
in 2000 in the first summit since the peninsula was divided in
1945. The North Korean leader promised to visit Seoul for a
second summit, but has never done so.


The 2000 summit led to a series of cross-border rapprochement
projects and helped Kim Dae-Jung win the Nobel Peace Prize later
in that year.


North-South ties soured after the North's missile tests last July
and nuclear test in October, but thawed when the communist state
agreed in principle to scrap its nuclear programmes.

