

The Ethiopian army has reached a truce  agreement with Somalia's
powerful Hawiye clan to end deadly clashes in the capital
Mogadishu, clan elders said Friday.


The truce comes a day after the government vowed to keep fighting
until it defeats suspected Islamist insurgents -- largely drawn
from the capital's dominant Hawiye clan -- who have been blamed
for a string of attacks.


"After serious discussions on the current political situation and
on the renewed violence, we agreed with the Ethiopian military
officials to implement a ceasefire," said Ugas Abdi Dahir
Mohamed, spokesman for Hawiye clan elders.


"The Ethiopians will remain in their military compound and will
not militarily engage with Somalis. And for our part, the Hawiye
will not fire any shot and will respect the ceasefire."


Mohamed said the deal also covered the Somali troops who rely on
their well trained and equipped Ethiopian counterparts for the
firepower against the insurgents.


"Somali troops will also cease operations," he added.


AFP correspondents said Mogadishu was calm early Friday after two
straight days of artillery duels that claimed at least 24 lives
and left hundreds wounded.


But residents say the death toll could be much higher since much
of the battle zone is inaccessible.


Ethiopian military officials confirmed that the ceasefire meeting
took place in the Mogadishu residence of warlord Abdi Hassan
Awale Qeybdid, but fell short of confirming a truce.


Clan sources said the agreement was the first since Somali-
Ethiopian forces routed the Islamist fighters from much of south
and central Somalia in January, sparking a deadly guerrilla-style
insurgency that has left scores dead.


Somalia, a nation of about 10 million, has in turmoil since the
1991 ouster of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre cleared the way for a
deadly power struggle.

