

Singapore is reviewing the salaries of top civil servants to
prevent them from migrating to private firms and to maintain the
country's competitive edge, Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong said.


Top public administrators are supposed to be paid 2.2 million
Singapore dollars (1.45 million US) a year under benchmarks
pegged to top private sector salaries, but they are actually
getting 55 percent less, Lee said.


"We have to close this gap," he said late Thursday. The salaries
of cabinet ministers and judges are also under review.


Lee said the salaries of top officials have fallen far behind
those offered by the private sector, and that the gap had to be
closed to maintain the city- state's reputation for an honest,
competent and efficient government.


"For the public service to remain an attractive employer, our
terms must keep pace with the private sector," he said in a
speech to civil servants.


"That is why our policy is to pay public servants competitive
salaries, commensurate with private sector earnings."


Details of the salary increases are to be released on April 9.


The government risks losing its highly talented employees who are
being offered better perks by companies both in Singapore and
overseas, the prime minister warned.


He recalled that in the early 1990s, the core agency in the
public service "lost entire cohorts of good officers" to the
private sector.


"We took many years to recover from the loss. This must not
happen again," he said.


To avoid the corruption hounding its Southeast Asian neighbours,
Singapore has pegged the salaries of top civil servants at two-
thirds the median income of high-income professions.


The policy has paid off as Singapore's bureaucracy earned a
global reputation for incorruptibility and efficiency, key
factors for the country's rapid rise as one of Asia's wealthiest
economies.


But the salaries have also sparked criticisms from ordinary
Singaporeans -- many of whom earn four to five dollars an hour.

