

Japan said Friday it would tighten its rules on the reporting of
nuclear incidents after the recent revelation of a series of past
near misses.


Industry minister Akira Amari said power firms would be required
to report all cases of dislodged nuclear control rods, not just
those that cause uncontrollable chain reactions known as
"criticality accidents".


"These cases may develop into a problem that threatens safety,"
he said at a news conference.


Tokyo Electric Power Co. admitted Thursday that five nuclear
control rods came off a reactor in central Fukushima prefecture
almost 30 years ago, apparently causing chain reactions
reportedly lasting more than seven hours.


The control rods are designed to regulate the distribution of
power in the reactor and can stop a nuclear reaction if needed.


A series of past incidents have come to light since Hokuriku
Electric Power Co. admitted last week that it failed to report a
June 1999 incident that caused a 15-minute uncontrollable chain
reaction.


Nobody was hurt but news of the cover-up provoked an outcry as
the incident took place just three months before one of Japan's
worst nuclear accidents which killed two workers and exposed 600
people to radiation.


The government is encouraging power companies to reveal all past
incidents in a bid to restore public confidence and improve
safety.


Chief Cabinet Secretary Shinzo Abe said Tokyo Electric Power's
criticality accident was "something that must not occur."


The power companies "must recover the trust from people and work
to secure their lives," said Shiozaki, the government's top
spokesman.


Resource-poor Japan relies on nuclear power for 30 percent of its
needs, but the construction of reactors is frequently met with
public resistance due to safety concerns.


Japan, the only nation ever attacked with atomic bombs, is also
sensitive about possible radiation leakage from nuclear reactor
plants.

