

Iraqi Deputy Prime Minister Salam al-Zubayi was wounded in a
double attack near his home on Friday and rushed to a US military
hospital in Baghdad, US and Iraqi officials told AFP.


"He was admitted in a US combat hospital an hour ago," Lieutenant
Colonel Christopher Garver said.


When asked whether Zubayi, one of the most prominent Sunni Arabs
in the Shiite- led government, was wounded in a double explosion
reported by Iraqi officials outside his home, Garver declined to
elaborate.


An Iraqi security official said three people were killed and 10
others wounded in a double suicide and car bomb attack near
Zubayi's home, office and mosque close to the highly fortified
Green Zone in central Baghdad.


Another security official said the wounded included Zubayi's
brother, a child and four guards of the deputy premier.


A number of  Shiite and Sunni politicians have suffered
assassination or kidnapping attempts amid the insurgent and
sectarian bloodshed that has killed tens of thousands of their
fellow citizens.


On February 28, two brothers of prominent member of parliament
Saleem Abdullah al-Juburi were killed by gunmen in a rebel
stronghold north of Baghdad.


The two men, who also acted as bodyguards for the Sunni MP, were
killed in Muqdadiyah in the confessionally mixed province of
Diyala.


Four days earlier, a suicide car bomber attacked a checkpoint
protecting the home of one of Iraq's most powerful Shiite
leaders, Abdel Aziz Hakim, killing at least three civilians and
wounding seven.

