

Asian stocks closed mixed in hesitant Friday trade, with
investors wrong footed as Wall Street reversed its view that the
latest comments from the US Federal Reserve meant a US interest
rate cut was on the cards, dealers said.


Markets rose sharply on Thursday as investors welcomed a change
in emphasis in the Fed statement after its interest rate meeting
which was taken to mean the central bank was now more worried
about the economy slowing than inflation.


If that was the case, then the Fed would be more likely to cut
interest rates sooner rather than later but on a second glance,
Wall Street turned more cautious, noting the bank's warning that
inflation remained an issue which could go either way.


"The (Fed) statement did remove the bias towards tightening
(interest rates) but there was no hint of any rate cut soon. It
was modestly positive news at best," said But Dick Green at
Briefing.com.


As the view changed, US stocks managed only very modest gains,
making for an uncertain start to the Asian day, with investors
deciding there was little to be gained from any aggressive trades
ahead of the weekend.


Kuala Lumpur, a market which has been a laggard overall, was the
best performer, rising 1.14 percent to extend gains to a seventh
straight day.


The Chinese markets, the cause of global turmoil only three weeks
ago, edged up to another record finish in very heavy volumes.


TOKYO: Japanese share prices closed up 0.35 percent, extending
their winning streak to a fourth trading day as a weaker yen gave
a lift to exporters, dealers said.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's benchmark Nikkei-225 index of leading
shares gained 61.41 points to 17,480.61.The TOPIX index of all
issues on the Tokyo Stock Exchange's first section advanced 10.14
points or 0.59 percent to 1,741.94. Decliners beat gainers 852 to
719, with 161 stocks flat.


Volume dropped to 1.90 billion shares from 2.17 billion on
Thursday.


Although the indices posted gains, many investors took a breather
after the market's recent rebound to a three-week high.


"Recent short-covering, which was prompted by a decline in
selling by global funds to hedge against downside risks, has run
out of steam," said an equities official at a Japanese brokerage
firm.


Dealers said some investors were also reluctant to build fresh
positions ahead of the weekend and book-closing next week for the
fiscal year-end.


"The market may trade downwards next week as post-dividend
trading starts ... but the extent of the decline is likely to be
relatively limited," said Masatoshi Sato, strategist at Mizuho
Investor Securities.


Exporters generally advanced on the back of the easier yen.


HONG KONG: Hong Kong share prices closed flat, consolidating
strong gains made this week as the market recovered lost ground
on the back of solid results from the major companies, dealers
said.


Buying momentum turned weak Friday, however, with most of the top
company results now out and trade was cautious as the market
awaited key housing data in the US after Wall Street provided no
lead overnight.


The Hang Seng Index added 2.39 points at 19,692.64, off a low of
19,634.11 and high of 19,729.49. For the week, the market was up
739.14 points or 3.9 percent. Turnover was 43.01 billion dollars
(5.5 billion US).


"Momentum turned weak ahead of the weekend and after recent
strong gains on the back of positive results from major
companies," said Castor Pang, strategist at Sun Hung Kai
Financial group.


He noted that trade was rangebound Friday with relatively low
turnover as the market went into consolidation mode.


"Investors were cautious after the continuous rebound in the last
few days" and as the main index headed toward the critical 19,800
points level, Pang said.


The market has factored in the recent results announcements and
is now looking for fresh leads.


The bourse "will take a lead from overseas markets and be
watching US economic data next week," he said, adding that
investors will also keep an eye out for any sign of further
tightening measures on the mainland.


SEOUL: South Korean share prices closed little changed, with
investors turning cautious ahead of the weekend and the corporate
earnings season beginning next month, dealers said.


Samsung Electronics and other IT big stocks came under pressure
after Motorola warned it might post a loss for the first quarter.


Dealers said gains Thursday were helped by the view that the US
Federal Reserve was readying the ground to cut interest rates
later this year.


Overnight, however, the markets revisited the Fed's comments made
Wednesday and came to the different conclusion that the central
bank remained concerned about inflation and so would more likely
keep monetary policy on hold.


The KOSPI index slipped 1.15 points at 1,447.38, off a high of
1,454.34 and a low of 1,443.04. The market gained 19.50 points
for the week. Volume was 271 million shares worth 2.8 trillion
won (3.0 billion dollars). Falls outpaced rises 396 to 366, with
78 stocks unchanged.


Foreign investors were net buyers of shares worth 77.2 billion
won while institutions and retail investors were net sellers of
38.9 billion won and 80 billion won respectively.


"With mixed views over the US interest rate outlook, the market
lacks momentum to rise through the previous high of 1,470
points," Goodmorning Securities analyst Kim Jung-Hyun said.


Many investors took to the sidelines ahead of the weekend and the
start of the corporate quarterly reporting season.


The market will likely trade without a clear direction next week
as investors are expected to focus only on companies with
positive earnings outlooks, Kim added.


TAIPEI: Taiwan share prices closed 0.46 percent higher, extending
Thursday's gains as foreign investors maintained their buying
interest, dealers said.


They said the market, however, appeared to lack enough support to
get much nearer the psychologically significant barrier of 8,000
points, with investors awaiting more convincing leads to justify
aggressive buying following a mixed performance on Wall Street
overnight.


The weighted index rose 35.65 points at 7,859.32, after trading
between 7,806.89 and 7,879.09, on turnover of 109.02 billion
dollars (3.30 billion US).


Risers led decliners 605 to 460, with 243 stocks unchanged.


"Although people could not bring themselves to push the upside
aggressively, there was no reason for them to decisively pull out
either," Jih Sun Securities Investment deputy manager Wilson Lien
said.


Lien said the local bourse is likely to keep up a generally
positive tone so long as international markets and Wall Street
provide that lead.


Given that foreign investors are positive on the Taiwan market
again, there is a good chance it should breach 8,000 points
before long, he said.


At the same time, the market will face a testing time as
companies start reporting their first quarter to March results,
he said, adding that the key techs normally go through a
seasonally weak period in the first three months.


SHANGHAI: Chinese share prices closed 0.10 percent higher, edging
up for another record finish as early losses were recovered on
the back of sustained capital inflows, dealers said.


They said there was some early profit-taking but underlying buy
interest remained solid, with investors having easily digested a
hike in interest rates last weekend and showing no fear the
authorities will clamp down again.


Volumes were once again very heavy at more than 20 billion
dollars, reflecting inflows of new money into a market that only
three weeks ago plunged nearly nine percent and set global
equities on a roller coaster ride they have only just recovered
from.


The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index, which covers both A- and
B-shares listed on the Shanghai Stock Exchange, added 3.06 points
to a record 3,074.29 on turnover of 104.61 billion yuan (13.50
billion dollars).


The Shanghai A-share Index was up 3.25 points or 0.10 percent at
3,230.27 on turnover of 104.07 billion yuan and the Shenzhen
A-share Index rose 9.11 points or 1.08 percent at a record
853.16, on turnover of 55.91 billion yuan.


"The market saw some profit-taking earlier after the key index
failed to remain above the 3,100 point level (Thursday) but the
buying interest was still strong enough," said Wang Jun, an
analyst at Merchants Securities.


Dealers said the market now looks to be on a firmer footing and
momentum could pick up on a rising yuan and improving corporate
profitability.


"Fresh money is still flowing in on the back of a strong yuan and
expectations of growing corporate profits for this year," said Wu
Dazhong, an analyst at Shenyin Wanguo Securities.


SYDNEY: Australian shares closed flat in cautious trade as some
investors took profits following Thursday's sharp rally, dealers
said.


They said the market enjoyed a morning rally which brought the
benchmark index to within 100 points of a record level but closed
the week quietly on profit- taking following Thursday's gains.


The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 slipped 3.4 points at 5,952.3 and
the broader All Ordinaries shed 2.3 points to 5,933.1.


Turnover was 1.69 billion shares worth 5.29 dollars (4.26 billion
US), with rises outnumbering falls 630 to 533 and 375 stocks
unchanged.


"The materials and mining sectors were amongst the big gainers
this week, particularly gold stocks," CMC Markets senior dealer
Josh Whiting.


As the gold price moved back above the 650 US dollar an ounce
mark, Newcrest gained 0.43 dollars to 23.56 dollars and Lihir
Gold rose 0.02 dollars to 3.25 doolars while Oxiana eased 0.03
dollars to 2.80 dollars.


The possibility of another domestic interest rate hike spurred
trading among the big banks, with most traders now backing a rate
hike next month, he said.


Shares in Qantas fell 0.16 to 5.06 after shareholder Balanced
Equity Management, which owns 4.0 percent of the airline, said it
would not accept a takeover offer from a Macquarie Bank-led
private equity consortium. The consortium needs to acquire 90
percent of shares to push ahead with its 11.1 billion dollar
takeover.


SINGAPORE: Singapore share prices closed 0.43 percent lower on a
lack of fresh leads and as investors consolidated a series of
strong gains made this week, dealers said.


The Straits Times Index was down 13.69 points at 3,205.82. Volume
was 1.33 billion shares worth 1.28 billion dollars (847 billion
US). Losers outpaced gainers 348 to 321, with 738 stocks
unchanged.


Dealers said that given the lack of fresh domestic leads, the
market will continue to watch US economic data to gauge the
prospects for an interest rate cut there.


"If the Fed were to ease interest rates in the second half (of
the year), it would be very good for the market," said Gabriel
Yap, senior dealing director at DMG Partners Securities Pte Ltd.


He said he expects the local market to stay in consolidation mode
for another two weeks before resuming its uptrend.


KUALA LUMPUR: Malaysian share prices closed 1.14 percent higher,
extending gains to a seventh straight day after the government
announced major incentives for the property sector, dealers said.


Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi on Thursday announced at a
major investment conference that the property capital gains tax
will be abolished from April 1.


He also proposed tax cuts and other measures to attract foreign
investors to develop an ambitious project in southern Johor
state.


The Kuala Lumpur Composite Index closed up 13.93 points at
1,235.65. Volume was 2.14 billion shares worth 2.63 billion
ringgit (760.6 million dollars). Gainers led losers 467 to 426,
with 255 stocks unchanged.


The gains were mainly due to the "spill-over effect of
announcements at the Invest Malaysia conference," said Cheah King
Yoong, head of research at SJ Securities.


At the conference, Malaysia's leaders and chiefs of major
corporations briefed fund managers and investment analysts.


JAKARTA: Indonesian share prices closed 0.17 percent lower as
investors took profits on recent gains, dealers said.


The Jakarta Stock Exchange composite index slipped 3.105 points
at 1,805.961 on volume of 1.98 billion shares worth 2.4 trillion
rupiah (263.59 million dollars). Decliners led advancers 77 to
63, with 68 stocks unchanged.


"After (Thursday's) strong rally, I would say today's correction
is healthy," said Felix Sindhunata, the head of research at Mega
Capital Securities.


"I think the market will continue to consolidate while waiting
for new strong leads," he said.


BANGKOK: Thai share prices closed 0.44 percent higher, led by
gains in energy stocks as oil prices climbed while the banks also
attracted attention in an otherwise subdued market, dealers said.


The Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET) composite index gained 2.95
points to 677.79 while the blue-chip SET 50 index rose 2.37
points to 474.79.


Gainers led losers 167 to 149, with 126 stocks unchanged on
turnover of 1.7 billion shares worth 9.5 billion baht (270
million dollars).


"The market was supported mainly by gains in energy stocks in
line with rising oil prices," said Kanang Duangmanee, an
economist at Kasikorn Research Center.


Investors also bought banking stocks but overall market gains
were limited due to a lack of new leads, Kanang said.


MANILA: Philippine share prices closed 0.26 percent lower as a
lack of leads resulted in mixed trade as some investors opted to
take some profits ahead of the weekend, dealers said.


Buying in select blue chips like Ayala Corp and SM Investments
helped limit the downturn, they added.


The composite index fell 8.27 points to 3,170.05 after trading
between 3,141.55 and 3,183.30. The broader all-share index shed
1.44 points to 2,038.09. Despite key indices finishing lower,
gainers beat losers 62 to 51, with 51 stocks unchanged.


Volume was 5.2 billion shares worth 3.5 billion pesos (73 million
dollars).


"The market is taking a breather; investors stayed on the
sidelines since the rise in the previous sessions was just too
fast," said James Lago of Westlink Global Equities Inc.


"The recent gains were due more to strong reactions to Wall
Street but there was really no major reason locally that could
have sustained the rally," added Lago.


WELLINGTON: New Zealand share prices closed 0.29 percent lower,
drifting downwards with a lack of direction, dealers said.


The benchmark NZX-50 index fell 11.98 points down at 4,064.05 on
turnover worth 118.05 million dollars (83.14 million US).


"The market's still lacking any certain direction and it's quiet
on the news front so the market's quite directionless," said
Hamilton, Hindin, Greene partner Grant Williamson.


Profit taking in heavyweight Telecom pushed it down five cents to
4.68 dollars.


MUMBAI: Indian share prices closed down 0.17 percent, snapping
four straight days of gains as investors took profits after a
sharp rally led by global trends, dealers said.


They said the markets may weaken next week on expectations of a
local rate hike, with inflation figures Friday showing prices
still above the central bank's comfort level.


The 30-share Mumbai stock exchange Sensex index fell 22.1 points
at 13,285.93, having risen 855 points or 7.06 percent Thursday.


"The markets came off its early gains with investors booking
profit after a sharp rise. There are concerns of a rate hike next
month," said Advait Date, dealer with brokerage BHH Securities.

