

Thai stocks are likely to stay within range next week amid
speculation the central bank may launch new measures to rein in
the baht, at nine-year highs against the dollar, analysts said
Friday.


The market is also expected to trade narrowly ahead of the
release at the end of next week of a February economic report by
the Bank of Thailand, they said.


"The stock market is expected to be rangebound as investors will
take a wait- and-see stance over the government's handling of the
strong baht," said Kanang Duangmanee, an economist at Kasikorn
Research Center.


"They are speculating whether the government will take new
measures to curb the baht," she said.


The central bank in December introduced stringent capital
controls aimed at taming the Thai baht, which has soared nearly
12 percent against the dollar over the past year.


The local currency has weakened since then but recently rebounded
to nine-year highs against the greenback due to speculation that
the government would soon lift the capital control measures.


While market players were betting on the end of the capital
controls, they were also speculating authorities would impose
fresh rules to weaken the Thai currency, analysts said.


The baht closed at a nine-year high of 35.03-05 to the dollar on
Friday, down from 34.92-93 a week earlier. Dealers suspected the
central bank might have intervened in the market Friday to weaken
the unit back to the 35 level.


Kanang said the strong baht would dampen market sentiment as it
makes Thai exports less competitive in overseas markets and cuts
the value of firms' repatriated profits. Exports are the key
driver of the Thai economy.


For the week to March 23, the Stock Exchange of Thailand
composite index rose 6.74 or 1.00 percent to close at 677.79 on
Friday.


Kanang said the market was likely to trade between the 670 and
680-point level next week.

