

Sudan is to re-interrogate a top official named by the
International Criminial Court as a suspect in alleged war crimes
in the troubled western region of Darfur, press reports said
Friday.


Prosecutor General Salah Abu Zeid said that new evidence had
called for the re- interrogation of Ahmed Haroun, secretary of
state for humanitarian affairs, who had been cleared of war
crimes in Darfur earlier this month.


Abu Zeid also announced that three security officials accused of
murdering Darfur civilians and burning down their villages,
including fellow ICC-suspect and militia leader Ali Kosheib, are
to stand trial.


In February, ICC prosecutor Luis-Moreno Ocampo named Kosheib and
Haroun (secretary of state of the interior at the time of the
alleged crimes) as Darfur war crimes suspects.


Moreno-Ocampo began investigating accusations of persecution,
torture, rape and murder in June 2006. He has focused on events
between 2003 and 2004, considered the most violent period in the
Darfur conflict.


Khartoum reacted to the ICC's move by insisting that its
judiciary was fully competent to handle the cases, rejecting the
legitimacy of any foreign court seeking to try Sudanese
nationals.


It simultaneously announced that Kosheib had been detained since
late November and that Haroun had been interrogated and cleared
of any wrongdoing.


According to the United Nations, at least 200,00O people have
been killed and more than two million displaced since the civil
conflict erupted in Darfur in February 2003. Some sources say the
death toll is much higher.

