

Australian shares closed flat Friday in cautious trade as some
investors took profits following Thursday's sharp rally, dealers
said.


The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 slipped 3.4 points at 5,952.3 and
the broader All Ordinaries shed 2.3 points to 5,933.1.


A total of 1.69 billion shares worth 5.29 dollars (4.26 billion
US) changed hands with rises outnumbering falls 630 to 533. Some
375 stocks closed unchanged.


Dealers said the market enjoyed a morning rally which brought the
benchmark index to within 100 points of a record level but closed
the week quietly on profit-taking following Thursday's gains.


"The materials and mining sectors were amongst the big gainers
this week, particularly gold stocks," CMC Markets senior dealer
Josh Whiting.


As the gold price moved back above the 650 US dollar an ounce
mark, Newcrest gained 0.43 dollars to 23.56 dollars and Lihir
Gold rose 0.02 dollars to 3.25 doolars while Oxiana eased 0.03
dollars to 2.80 dollars.


The possibility of another domestic interest rate hike spurred
trading among the big banks, with most traders now backing a rate
hike next month, he said.


Among the banks, Commonwealth Bank shares added 0.12 to close at
50.27 and ANZ rose 0.11 to 29.55 but National Australia Bank
dropped 0.13 to 40.60 and Westpac lost 0.10 to 26.15.


Macquarie Bank was 0.09 higher at 81.75.


The major miners were down slightly, with BHP Billiton easing
0.06 to 29.20 and Rio Tinto slipping 0.16 to 76.85.


Shares in the national airline Qantas fell 0.16 to 5.06 after
shareholder Balanced Equity Management, which owns 4.0 percent of
the airline, said it would not accept a takeover offer from a
Macquarie Bank-led private equity consortium. The consortium
needs to acquire 90 percent of shares to push ahead with its 11.1
billion dollar takeover.


Australia's second-largest retailer Coles Group enjoyed strong
support to reach a record high ahead of the release of an
ownership review on Monday. Coles shares ended up 0.02 at a 16.00
after earlier reaching a record 16.06.


In the telco sector, shares in dominant provider Telstra added
0.04 to 4.48 while rival SingTel slipped 0.02 to 2.63.

