

Hong Kong share prices closed flat Friday, consolidating strong
gains made this week as the market recovered lost ground on the
back of solid results from the major companies, dealers said.


Buying momentum turned weak Friday, however, with most of the top
company results now out and trade was cautious as the market
awaited key housing data in the US after Wall Street provided no
lead overnight.


The Hang Seng Index added 2.39 points at 19,692.64, off a low of
19,634.11 and high of 19,729.49. For the week, the market was up
739.14 points or 3.9 percent. Turnover was 43.01 billion dollars
(5.5 billion US).


"Momentum turned weak ahead of the weekend and after recent
strong gains on the back of positive results from major
companies," said Castor Pang, strategist at Sun Hung Kai
Financial group.


He noted that trade was rangebound Friday with relatively low
turnover as the market went into consolidation mode.


"Investors were cautious after the continuous rebound in the last
few days" and as the benchmark index headed toward the critical
19,800 points level, Pang said.


The market has factored in the recent results announcements and
is now looking for fresh leads.


The bourse "will take a lead from overseas markets and be
watching US economic data next week," he said, adding that
investors will also keep an eye out for any sign of further
tightening measures on the mainland.


Hutchison Whampoa rose 0.45 dollars at 75.85 dollars, reversing
early losses, while Cheung Kong was up 0.90 at 97.75 after
results announcements from tycoon Li Ka-shing's flagship
companies.


"Cheung Kong's solid 2006 results boosted buying interest and
investors have a positive view on its earnings this year on the
back of strong property sales ... but for Hutchison Whampoa, its
3G business is still uncertain," Pang noted.


Among others that reported their earnings Thursday, Bank of China
was down 0.01 at 3.89 and unit BOC Hong Kong fell 0.10 at 19.28.


China Mobile was down 1.35 at 70.95 on profit-taking after its
results announcement on Wednesday.


HSBC added 0.70 at 137.20, Hang Seng Bank was down 0.50 at 110.20
and Bank of East Asia flat at 44.30.


The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index rose 73.81 points or 0.78
percent at 9,487.51, led by energy stocks after oil prices rose
overnight.


PetroChina was up 0.12 at 8.78, Sinopec added 0.20 at 6.48 and
CNOOC put on 0.03 at 6.47.

