

The US military's top commander said here Friday that he did not
believe China's armed forces were a threat and played down the
prospects for hostilities in the Taiwan strait.


Following US complaints over China's rising military budget and a
satellite- killing test, General Peter Pace, chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff, said his four-day visit was aimed at
boosting US-Sino military ties.


"Clearly, both the United States and China have enormous military
capacity, but equally clearly neither country has the intent to
go to war with the other. So absent of intent, I don't find
threat," Pace said.


"We should not focus on how to fight each other but how to
prevent military action. That is what my government is focused
on, and that is what my Chinese counterparts here have said their
government is focused on."


Pace, who arrived Thursday, said he had discussed the sensitive
topic of Taiwan with the Vice Chairman of the Central Military
Commission, Guo Boxiong, Defence Minister Cao Gangchuan and
Foreign Minister Li Zhaoxing.


"It is not surprising that in each of the meetings, the issue of
Taiwan came up. It is clearly a fundamental issue with China," he
said.


Pace said he had repeated President George W. Bush's position
that the US leader "would not support Taiwan independence" and
that Washington wanted the issue to be handled peacefully.


Taiwan has been one of the biggest obstacles to better Sino-US
ties, with the United States concerned that China may carry out
its threat to retake the island by force if Taipei should move
towards independence.


Pace's visit follows a US announcement last month that it plans
to provide over 400 missiles to Taiwan, apparently to counter
China's growing military force aimed at the island territory.
China protested the planned sale.

