

NATO troops shot and killed a 12-year-old Afghan boy who was in a
car with his family in Kabul, the government said Friday, in the
latest in a series of civilian deaths involving foreign forces.


NATO's International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) confirmed
there had been an incident late Thursday but said it could not
comment until a military police investigation was completed.


"NATO forces opened fire at a Townace civilian vehicle which
apparently tried to overtake the troops or maybe the car was too
close to the troops," interior ministry spokesman Zemarai Bashary
told AFP.


"A bullet hit a 12-year-old child in the car. The child was
apparently driving with his family," he said.


The attack was on the eastern route out of the city, a road which
sees most of the suicide attacks in Kabul because it is
frequently used by foreign troops.


Soldiers with ISAF and the separate US-led coalition, nervous of
suicide car bombings and other attacks, have shot dozens of
civilians who have been travelling too close to their convoys.


The troops usually fire warnings shots first and some have fixed
notices to their vehicles warning civilians to keep their
distance. But Afghans say many of them drive and behave
aggressively.


In one of the worst incidents, eight civilians were killed when
US troops opened fire after a suicide bombing near the eastern
city of Jalalabad March 4.


The coalition said the civilians were killed in the attack and
return fire by its troops, but witnesses said they were all
killed by the foreign forces. The results of an investigation
have yet to be announced.


ISAF said in a statement late Thursday meanwhile that one of its
convoys had hit and killed a child in the eastern province of
Khost. The child had darted out from the side of the road, it
said.

