

UN envoy Martti Ahtisaari's final report on Kosovo's status calls
for independence under international supervision, European
diplomats said in Brussels Friday.


The final proposal sent to the United Nations says that "Kosovo
shall be a multi-ethnic society, governing itself democratically
and with full respect for the rule of law" with a "future
international civilian and military presence," according to the
diplomatic sources.


The final text shows no substantive changes from the original
draft plan presented to Serbian and Kosovo leaders last month.
The controversial word "independence" is included only in the
foreword to the text, the diplomats said.


Ahtisaari has so far scrupulously avoided any mention of the "I"
word in connection with Kosovo's future status, given the
opposition of Serbia and Russia to such a move.


Serbia's breakaway province, which has been under UN
administration for almost eight years, shall also have the right
to "negotiate and conclude international agreements, including
the right to seek membership in international organisations".


It will also adopt a constitution within 120 days of its new
status being adopted, by which time the mandate of the current UN
mission in Kosovo will end.


The Ahtisaari plan stresses the need to look after the interests
of the Serb minority in mainly Albanian Kosovo, including the
establishment of "six new or significantly expanded Kosovo Serb
majority municipalities".


Serbian shall also be an official language along with Albanian
and the Kosovo Serb community will have "a high degree of control
over its own affairs," according to the diplomatic sources.


General end local elections are to be held within nine months of
the new status being introduced.


There will be an International Civilian Representative who will
have "strong corrective powers" to ensure the agreement is
successfully implemented and will be the "ultimate supervisory
authority" over the implementation while having no direct role in
the administration of Kosovo. The IPR will be an EU Special
Representative.


He will be aided by a NATO-led military mission and an EU police
force which will "monitor, mentor and advise on all areas related
to the rule of law".


The future status must be approved by the UN Security Council.


Some 10,000 ethnic Albanians died and hundreds of thousands fled
Kosovo during the 1998-1999 conflict.


The UN Security Council will be asked in the coming weeks to
consider Ahtisaari's proposal following the failure of
negotiations between Serbia and Kosovo Albanians.

