

Japanese share prices are likely to move in  narrow ranges next
week as investors shy away from making bets ahead of the release
of corporate earnings and key US housing data, dealers said
Friday.


For the week to March 23, the Tokyo Stock Exchange's benchmark
Nikkei-225 rose 736.46 points or 4.4 percent to 17,480.61. The
broader-based TOPIX index of all first-section companies gained
64.88 points or 3.9 percent to 1,741.94.


"Japanese share prices won't move that much, especially since
this is the end of the month and traders are bracing for the new
month of April," said Kenichi Azuma, strategist at Cosmo
Securities.


Market participants will prefer to remain on the sidelines ahead
of corporate results and forecasts for the next year, dealers
said, although most of Japan's major companies are not due to
report until late April or May.


"Investors are unwilling to make big trades because they are
waiting to see whether strong figures will be released from
companies," said Fujiki Hirakawa, strategist at Okasan
Securities.


Japanese investors will also have their eyes on the release of
Japan's key Tankan business sentiment survey by the central bank
on April 1, as well as a slew of US economic indicators,
including key housing data.


"Housing figures are our biggest focus. They are extremely
important indicators of US economic health and if the figures are
too low, they will pull down share prices everywhere, including
Japan," warned Azuma.


Concerns about the US housing market and mortgage lenders who
made loans to people with poor credit histories have mounted in
recent weeks, fanning concerns about the pace of the US economic
slowdown.

