

A former Belgian army officer in the United Nations mission to
Rwanda (Minuar) has accused French soldiers of training extremist
Hutus responsible for the 1994 genocide, Rwandan media said
Tuesday.


Retired colonel Walter Ballis, who was deputy head of Minuar
operations, was giving evidence on Monday to the Kigali-based
Rwandan inquiry committee into the role of France in the
massacre.


"Our intelligence unit reported training camps where French
instructors were teaching the Interhamwe (armed Hutu militia)
skills for battle and war," he said, according to the Rwandan
Information Agency (ARI).


"(The unit) highlighted the presence of members of DAMI (the
French army's military training detachment) during daily
briefings. We were not authorised to arrest them or even to ask
what they were doing in Kigali."


Ballis added: "Certain French who were supposed to have left
Rwanda in mid- December 1993 disguised themselves as civilians
and continued to do what they were doing before."


The inquiry committee, which began its work in April 2006, is
officially charged with "gathering evidence of the implication of
France in the genocide", which the UN estimates left 800,000
people dead.


The current Rwandan government regularly accuses France of having
trained and armed those who carried out the killing, and broke
off diplomatic relations with Paris in November. France has
always denied the claims.


The UN mission in Rwanda was charged with helping implement a
peace agreement reached in August 1993 between the Rwandan
government and Tutsi rebel group the Rwandan Patriotic Front
(FPR), which is now in power.


It failed to stop the massacre of ethnic minority Tutsis by Hutu
extremists, sparked by the death of president Juvenal Habyarimana
on April 6, 1994.

