

Chinese share prices extended their record breaking performance,
closing up 0.26 percent, supported by sustained capital inflows
as investors chased stocks, dealers said.


They said turnover was extremely heavy as investors focused on
power generators and steelmakers with more than 60 companies
gaining their limit day 10 percent, but gains on the key Shanghai
index were capped by profit taking.


Dealers also cautioned that at current levels -- the market rose
130 percent last year and has ran ahead another 50 percent so far
in 2007 -- there is an increasing chance of a sharp pull-back as
investors take profits.


The market tumbled nearly 9.0 percent at the end of February,
sparking global equity turmoil, but has bounced back very
strongly to more than recoup the loss.


The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index, which covers A and
B-shares listed on the Shanghai Stock Exchange, closed up 9.65
points at 3,720.53, a fresh all-time high on turnover of 203.92
bilion yuan (26.41 billion dollars), a new record.


The Shanghai A-share Index ended 10.44 points or 0.27 percent
higher at 3,910.39 on turnover of 202.75 billion yuan, while the
Shenzhen A-share Index was up 4.22 points or 0.39 percent at
1,097.52, also a new record, on turnover of 109.76 billion yuan.


"The record high turnover today indicated that some institutional
investors chose to unload their positions," said Xu Ming, an
analyst at Shiji Investment.


Analysts said corrections are likely in the near future given the
market's record breaking run.


"The market saw significant fluctuations as some investors took
profits but fresh money continued entering to offset early
losses," said Wang Jun, an analyst at Merchants Securities.


"More corrections from now are likely as stocks are relatively
overbought in the short term, but the long-term bullish trend
will be maintained given mostly- improved corporate
profitability," said Wang Jun, an analyst at Merchants
Securities.


Power generators and steelmakers were bouyed by follow-through
buying and robust earnings, with Harbin Shirble Electric-Heat
soaring its 10 percent daily limit at 42.78 yuan.


Dalian Thermal Power was also up 10 percent limit at 10.93.


Hongxing Iron and Steel gained its 10 percent daily limit to
11.08 yuan, while Inner Mongolia Baotou Steel Union jumped 0.52
yuan or 7.04 percent at 7.91.


Financial stocks were under pressure from profit-taking, with
Industrial Bank down 1.10 yuan or 3.40 percent to 31.28.


Ping An Insurance lost 1.16 yuan or 2.04 percent at 55.82 and
Shanghai Pudong Development Bank tumbled 0.66 yuan or 2.31
perceent to 27.64.


The Shanghai B-share Index was down 1.82 points at 206.75 on
turnover of 1.17 billon dolloars usd and the Shenzhen B-share
Index was up 1.64 points at 576.53 on turnover of 1.12 billion
Hong Kong dollars.

