

The World Trade Organisation agreed on Tuesday to take up the
European Union's complaint on Indian import duties on wines and
spirits, a trade source said.


A meeting of the WTO's Dispute Settlement Body here decided to
set up a panel to examine and rule on the dispute following a
second request from the EU, the source said.


India's blockage at a meeting nearly two weeks ago was
automatically waived under WTO rules.


The European Union is challenging combined duties and taxes that
reach up to 550 percent on spirits imported into one of the
world's fastest growing markets and up to 264 percent on wine
imported into India, according to Brussels.


Indian Commerce Minister Kamal Nath recognised last month that
tariffs were high and said that his country remained committed to
resolving the dispute through negotiations.


An EU official has confirmed that more meetings were expected on
the issue.


The Press Trust of India reported earlier this month that the
Indian government expects to pass legislation cutting the high
drinks duties before the WTO can complete its investigation into
the levies.


WTO experts normally take about six months to produce a ruling.


In 2004, EU wine and spirits exports to India amounted to just
27.3 million euros (36.7 million dollars), out of a total EU
export market worth 9.5 billion euros, according to the EU
statistics agency Eurostat.


But India's 1.1 billion strong population and fast-growing middle
class, represent a potentially huge market for both European and
US wine and spirits exporters.


The United States submitted a similar complaint over India's
duties on wine and spirit imports in early March, requesting
negotiations with Delhi.

