

The European Commission launched on Tuesday legal action against
24 member states for dragging their feet on adopting new EU
investment services regulations, a spokesman said.


Out of the 27 European Union members, only Britain, Ireland and
Romania had adopted on schedule the new EU rules, which aim to
create a single European market and regulatory regime for
securities.


"The infringement procedures have started," Commission spokesman
Oliver Drewes told journalists.


Member states were supposed to have adopted the rules into their
national legislation by the end of January so that they would be
up and running by November.


Britain, which has a huge financial services industry, and
Romania were the only countries to have met the January deadline
while Ireland has since adopted the new rules.


However, Drewes said that "a large bulk of member states will
fulfill their obligations" to implement the rules in May, June or
July.


EU Internal Market Commissioner Charlie McCreevy sent a letter to
EU finance ministers calling for the adoption of the new rules to
be made a political priority, warning of painful consequences for
the industry.


"I urge member states to keep to the timetable that they
themselves have agreed," McCreevy said. "Further delays could
well expose Europe's firms and banks to serious competitive
disadvantage."


The new rules aim to make it easier for banks to offer pan-
European investment services in order to fuel more competition
while also protecting investors.

