

The funeral for Russia's first president Boris Yeltsin will be
held on Wednesday in the country's biggest church and will be
followed by burial in a historic Moscow cemetery, officials said.


Russians' farewell to their late leader will begin on Tuesday
with a lying-in- state from 1130 GMT and a service at 1300 GMT in
Christ the Saviour, a lavish golden-domed church in central
Moscow, ITAR-TASS news agency reported.


The funeral service on Wednesday will begin at 0400 GMT and
international figures, including former US presidents Bill
Clinton and George H.W. Bush, will attend the ceremony, Russian
news agencies said.


Russian Orthodox Patriarch Alexy II has announced that three
bishops will officiate at the funeral ceremony, church spokesman
Vsevolod Chaplin was quoted by RIA-Novosti news agency as saying.


The Christ the Saviour cathedral was destroyed in Soviet times
and an open-air swimming pool was built in its place. The church
was painstakingly rebuilt as an exact replica under Yeltsin in
the 1990s.


The ceremony will be shown live on television as the nation holds
a day of mourning, with flags flown at half-mast across the
country and television entertainment programmes cancelled, the
Kremlin said in a statement.


Yeltsin will then be buried next to leading Russian public
figures such as playwright Anton Chekhov, Soviet leader Nikita
Khrushchev and opera singer Fyodor Shalyapin in the grounds of
the Novodevichy convent in Moscow.


The convent, famous for its peaceful and picturesque setting by
the Moscow river, was founded in the 16th century and inhabited
by many female relatives of Russia's Tsars.

