

The former head of the US medical chain HealthSouth agreed to pay
an 81-million- dollar fine in a fraud scandal but admitted no
wrongdoing, the US stock market regulator said.


Richard Scrushy, the founding head of the chain of outpatient
centers, agreed to the penalty "without admitting or denying any
of the allegations" against it by the Security and Exchange
Commission, the SEC said in a statement Monday.


However, a final judgement in the case by a court in the southern
state of Alabama where the group is based "permanently bars
Scrushy from serving as an officer or director of a public
company," it added.


The commission had accused him of overstating the company's
profits between 1996 and 2002 by some 2.6 billion dollars in
order to cover up its significant losses.


"This overstatement led directly to quarterly and annual
overstatements of net income and retained earnings," the SEC
said, detailing the charges it brought in a judicial complaint
against him.


"The HealthSouth fraud resulted in one of the largest accounting
restatements in American corporate history."


Scrushy was originally acquitted of corporate fraud in a June
2005 trial but later found guilty on other charges including
bribery linked to a former Alabama governor, in another case in
June 2006.


In 2004, HealthSouth agreed to make a pay-out over complaints by
federal authorities that it had defrauded public health insurers
such as the elderly persons' health fund Medicare.


Most of the latest fine consists of reimbursements Scrushy is now
ordered to make, which will be offset against any other pay-outs
he has made in other lawsuits, the SEC statement said.

