

Russia said Tuesday it would veto UN Security Council approval of
a plan under consideration for putting the Serbian province of
Kosovo on the path to independence, Russian news agencies
reported.


Deputy Foreign Minister Vladimir Titov said a plan authored by UN
special envoy Martti Ahtisaari to grant the province supervised
independence was unacceptable because of Serbian government
opposition.


"The solution based on the recommendation by Ahtisaari will not
pass at the UN Security Council," Titov was quoted as saying by
the Interfax news agency.


"The threat of a veto should push the two sides into finding
mutually acceptable compromises," ITAR-TASS news agency reported
him as saying.


Titov also accused ethnic-Albanians in Kosovo of "blackmailing"
the international community by warning about the threat of a
conflict and added: "Nothing is preventing the Kosovo Albanians
from sorting out their lives."


The foreign ministry official also said that any escalation of
violence in the province would prompt Russia to raise the issue
of stopping status talks at the UN Security Council.


"We will insist on a decision on whether or not it is sensible to
continue the political process or whether it should be stopped,"
Titov was quoted as saying by Interfax.


Kosovo has been run by a UN mission under Resolution 1244, which
was passed by the Council in mid-1999 after NATO bombing helped
to end a bloody Serbian crackdown on Kosovo's majority ethnic
Albanians.


Russia has traditionally supported the Serbian government's
position.

