

Top Indian automaker Maruti Udyog reported a 24 percent jump in
quarterly profit Tuesday amid uncertainty over whether a slew of
interest rate hikes would brake sales in the fast-growing car
market.


New Delhi-based Maruti, majority owned by Japan's Suzuki Corp,
announced net profit totalled 4.49 billion rupees (108 million
dollars) for the fourth quarter ended March 31, beating market
expectations of around 4.2 billion.


Sales for the quarter climbed 36.6 percent to 46.35 billion
rupees.


For the full-year, Maruti's profit climbed 31.4 percent to 15.6
billion rupees on sales that rose 22.2 percent to 152.5 billion
rupees. The automaker sold a record 674,924 vehicles, up 20.1
percent from the previous year.


"It has been a stellar year," Maruti Udyog managing director
Jagdish Khattar told financial analysts, adding performance had
been driven by sales of the company's fuel-saving compact cars.


Maruti shares climbed 27 rupees or 3.52 percent to 794.4,
outpacing the benchmark 30-share Mumbai stock exchange Sensex
index which gained 1.5 percent to hit a two-month high of
14,136.72.


"We expect Maruti's trajectory will remain one of growth but at a
moderated level," said Mahantesh Sabarad of brokerage Prabhudas
Lilladher.


Maruti, which faces tough competition from South Korea's Hyundai
and India's Tata Motors that also make small cars, said it was
premature to assess the effect of a wave of rate hikes to curb
inflation in Asia's fourth-largest economy.


On Tuesday, the Reserve Bank of India, which has raised its key
lending rate five times in less than a year to 7.75 percent, kept
monetary policy on hold at a key meeting but retained its hawkish
stance.


"It's too early to assess... the extent of the impact (of the
rate hikes)," Khattar said, adding the only response was to be
"more aggressive in the market and attract more customers."


Hardening commodity prices would also "continue to be a cause of
concern."


Higher rates helped slow total passenger car sales growth to 2.89
per cent in March over the year earlier period -- the lowest rate
in 13 months. March, the end of the financial year in India, is
traditionally a good month for car sales.


The slowdown came as passenger car sales grew a robust 20.7
percent in 2006-07 over the previous financial year, according to
industry figures released earlier this month.


Analysts have said the rate rises could slow auto sales growth.
Interest rates for car purchases have risen to 15 to 16 percent
from 11 percent with dealers reporting many customers postponing
purchases.


India's booming economy has created an affluent middle class that
has spurred car demand, creating one of the world's fastest
growing automobile markets.


Youthful demographics are also propelling the market with 54
percent of the population below the age of 25, and 70 percent
below 30.


Automakers are aiming for sales of 145 billion dollars in 10
years or average 16 percent annual growth, according to a
government mission plan.


The automakers also are keen to export small cars abroad using
India's low cost production base and engineering talent,
targeting sales growth in exports from vehicles and parts of 35
billion dollars by 2016, up from 4.3 billion now.


Maruti, which exported 30,295 vehicles in the past year, has said
it wants to boost exports to as many as 400,000 units by 2010.

