

A computerised drill showed that Taiwan is vulnerable to air
attack from rival China due to insufficient anti-missile
protection, the defence ministry said Tuesday.


In the five-day simulated operation last week, a massive
ballistic missile attack was "launched" at Taiwan's military
command, missile bases, radar stations and airports, the ministry
said.


Most military personnel and weaponry installations survived the
bombings in the scenario, Lieutenant General Chiu Kuo-cheng said.


But the attacks "caused grave damage to radar systems and
airports ... due to the weakness of our anti-missile defences,"
he said.


The computerised drill was part of the war games codenamed "Han
Kuang 23."


In an interview with CNN in January, Taiwan's President Chen
Shui-bian accused China of provoking his government by targeting
the island with nearly 1,000 missiles.


In reaction to China's continued missile build-up, Taiwan has
deployed three US- made Patriot anti-missile batteries to defend
the densely-populated Taipei area, and is seeking to purchase
more.


The drill findings also indicated that China's "submarines had
posed serious threats to Taiwan's warships," the ministry said,
calling for further build-up of anti-submarine capabilities.


It confirmed that the United States had sent personnel to observe
the simulation, which was staged in Taipei's Yuanshan command.


Taiwan's defence minister Lee Jye last month issued a stern
warning against the growing military threat from China and said
the island needed to buy more advanced weaponry.


Taiwan's opposition has repeatedly blocked a 10-billion-US-dollar
arms deal even after it was scaled down from 16 billion dollars.


Tensions between Taiwan and mainland China have escalated since
independence- leaning Chen was elected president in 2000.


China has repeatedly threatened to invade the island should it
declare formal independence.

