

US consumer confidence fell in April to the lowest level in a
year as high gasoline prices and a tighter job market dampened
spirits, a survey showed Tuesday.


The Conference Board said its consumer confidence index fell to
104.0 from 108.2 in March, in the second straight monthly
decline.


"This month's decline was a combination of weakening expectations
and a less favorable assessment of present-day conditions," said
Conference Board research director Lynn Franco.


"Rising prices at the gas pump continue to play a key role in
dampening consumers' short-term expectations."


The sub-indexes in the survey were also lower. The present
situation index decreased to 131.3 from 138.5 in March and the
forward-looking expectations index declined to 85.8 from 87.9.


"The decline in the present situation index -- the first decline
in six months -- warrants monitoring in the months ahead, as
further declines would suggest a softening in growth," Franco
said.


Those claiming conditions are "good" declined to 26.5 percent
from 28.6 percent while respondents saying conditions are "bad"
edged up to 15.0 percent from 14.5 percent.


Consumers saying that jobs are "hard to get" rose to 20.4 percent
from 18.9 percent and those claiming jobs are "plentiful"
decreased to 27.8 percent from 30.3 percent in March.


Those anticipating business conditions to worsen in the next six
months rose to 10.2 percent from 9.8 percent. Consumers expecting
business conditions to improve decreased to 13.5 percent from
14.5 percent.


The report is based on a survey of 5,000 US households though
April 17.

