

The Bank of Canada held its key lending rate at 4.25 percent
Tuesday for the seventh consecutive meeting, fearing "a more
pronounced slowdown in the US economy" would curb Canadian
exports.


In a statement, the central bank said: "Robust domestic demand
continues to support Canada's economic growth. Stronger-than-
expected growth outside North America has led to rising demand
for, and prices of, many commodities."


"However, the slowing US economy has had a moderating effect on
growth in Canada."


The bank warned that "the recent strength of inflation could be
more persistent than projected." As well, there is a "possibility
of a more pronounced slowdown in the US economy."


The bank deemed these risks to be "roughly balanced," but added
there is now "a slight tilt to the upside" inflation risk.


In the first quarter of this year, the economy was operating
"just above its production capacity," the bank said.


Inflation was higher than predicted and pressures on capacity
over the past year have been "stronger than previously judged."


Also, food and gasoline prices rose more than expected recently.


But fewer net exports could exert a "slightly greater drag" on
growth in the rest of 2007, with the US slowdown "now expected to
be somewhat more prolonged than previously projected," the
central bank said.


The Canadian economy meanwhile is projected to grow by 2.2
percent in 2007 and 2.7 percent in both 2008 and 2009, returning
to its production capacity in the second half of 2007 and
remaining there through 2008 and 2009.


And inflation is projected to rise above the bank's 2.0 percent
target in the second half of this year, before returning to the
target by mid-2008.

