

A Manchester United supporters group have demanded an apology
from Italian police over their treatment at the recent Champions
League quarter-final in Rome.


United fans in the Stadio Olympico were baton charged by police
after trouble stirred in the stands between the home Italian fans
and the visiting supporters.


United officials condemned the police for over-reacting and
lodged a complaint with European football's governing body UEFA
over the treatment of their fans by police.


Now the Independent Manchester United Supporters Association
(IMUSA) is demanding a formal apology and threatening legal
action if they do not receive it.


Legal papers are due to be lodged later this week and IMUSA are
warning they will pursue the case vigorously until they get a
satisfactory outcome.


"Our supporters were struck with batons and sticks for no good
reason and we want an apology," said IMUSA spokesman Colin
Hendrie.


"The authorities in Rome have already admitted too much force was
used and confirmation Italian grounds will have stewards instead
of police in charge just emphasises something went wrong.


"We have photographic evidence, not only of beatings, but also of
police using the butt-end of their batons to hit supporters,
turning them from an object of restraint into an offensive
weapon.


"Those who were injured should be compensated financially and
there should be a formal apology. We are prepared to take this
matter to court in order to get them."


United lost the match 2-1 after playing the entire second half
with 10 men following Paul Scholes's first half dismisal.


But the eight-time Premiership champions produced a dazzling
display in the return leg in Manchester to run out 7-1 winners
and qualify for the semi-finals against AC Milan.

