

The family of the first known victim of Tokyo serial rapist Joji
Obara on Tuesday criticised police for failing to stop him before
the death of British bar hostess Lucie Blackman.


Obara was sentenced Tuesday to life in prison over a wave of
sexual assaults on women including Australian Carita Ridgway, who
died in a Tokyo hospital in February 1992.


Ridgway was raped after being drugged with chloroform, which
triggered liver failure and led to her dying from hepatitis.


Her death came eight years before the murder of Blackman in 2000.
Both girls were 21-year-old bar hostesses.


Ridgway's mother Annette Foster expressed the family's
frustration at a news conference after the verdict.


"Carita's family feel a deep sense of anger, betrayal and
disappointment in relation to the 1992 police investigation into
Carita's death," Foster, 58, said, sitting next to the victim's
sister and father.


"The fact that Obara went on to continue committing crimes for
the next eight years forced on Carita's family great stress,
particularly in respect to Lucie Blackman."


"Carita's family respectfully request the Japanese government to
set up an independent inquiry into the 1992 police investigation
of Carita's death," she said. "In particular, we would like to
know why, when we went to the police, that our concerns and our
suspicions were ignored and laughed at."


Obara was convicted over attacks on nine women, including
Ridgway.


But he was acquitted on all charges over Blackman, who
disappeared in July 2000 while working as a hostess in Tokyo's
seedy Roppongi district to earn quick money to fund a trip to
Australia.


After seven months, her dismembered body was found buried in a
seaside cave in Misaki, 50 kilometres (30 miles) south of Tokyo.


Judge Tsutomu Tochigi acquitted Obara of all charges related to
Blackman's death, saying nothing proved his clear and direct
involvement in her death.

