

Oil-rich Kuwait posted record income of 53.5 billion dollars in
the last fiscal year that ended March 31, the finance ministry
announced on Tuesday.


It is the first time that revenues of this Gulf state have topped
50 billion dollars in a single fiscal year.


According to figures posted on the ministry website, revenues are
up about 13 percent on the 47.4 billion dollars posted in the
previous year and exceed by 24 billion dollars the government's
whole year projection of 29.5 billion dollars.


Oil revenues reached 14.5 billion dinars (50.2 billion dollars),
constituting 94 percent of total income, also the largest ever in
the emirate's history.


Oil income is up 12 percent on the previous fiscal year of
2005/2006 and almost twice the budget projection of 26.8 billion
dollars, the ministry figures showed.


The budget calculated oil income at the conservative price of 36
dollars a barrel while the actual price of Kuwaiti oil averaged
around 58 dollars last fiscal year.


Kuwaiti oil output averaged 2.47 million barrels per day during
the past fiscal year, but in recent months the emirate has cut
production to 2.4 million bpd in line with OPEC decisions to trim
crude supplies to boost prices.


Non-oil revenues amounted to 3.3 billion dollars, also a sharp
rise over the previous year's 2.6 billion dollars.


Preliminary figures for spending last fiscal year reached 8.26
billion dinars (28.6 billion dollars), up 21.2 percent on the
previous fiscal year's expenditure of 23.6 billion dollars.


The figure is certain to increase sharply due to adjustments in
the closing accounts which normally exceed 20 percent.


National Bank of Kuwait said in its latest economic report that
most of the increase was due to extraordinary one-off transfers
of seven billion dollars to the social security agency and an
emiri grant to citizens.


The budget had projected revenue of 29.5 billion dollars and
expenditure of 38.5 billion dollars, leaving a projected deficit
of nine billion dollars.


But analysts forecast that Kuwait will actually post a surplus of
around 17 billion dollars. It will be the eighth straight year
the budget has been in the black.


In the previous fiscal year 2005/2006, Kuwait posted a record
surplus of 23.84 billion dollars, to add to the 30 billion
dollars of surplus collected in the preceding six years.


Finance Minister Bader Mishari al-Humaidhi has said that Kuwait's
financial assets, mostly invested overseas, reached 166 billion
dollars a year ago.


Kuwait sits on 10 percent of the world's oil reserves. It has a
native population of one million people, in addition to 2.16
million foreign residents.


By law, 10 percent of total revenues are placed in the Kuwait
Fund for Future Generations. Returns on the fund's assets,
estimated at well over five billion dollars a year, do not figure
in the budget.

