

A protest by inmates at a Greek high-security prison spread
Tuesday as the justice ministry rejected the prisoners' demands,
news reports and an official said.


Police units were believed to be preparing to storm the facility
at Malandrino, central Greece, a justice ministry source told
AFP, while news stations said the protest had spread to nine of
the prison's 10 wings.


Private channel MEGA broadcast footage of inmates massed on the
prison roof, wielding crude weapons and shouting at media crews
below.


"Was this supposed to be a high-security prison? We shall see
about that," one man shouted. "We have nothing to lose."


The inmates presented a list of demands, calling for reduced
sentences and more generous leave provisions, which the justice
ministry rejected as unacceptable.


Prison director Constantine Tsevikos said Monday the inmates, all
hardcore offenders convicted of crimes such as murder and drug
trafficking, launched their protest in the morning and the
situation was "under control".


According to reports, the protest started after guards beat
Yiannis Dimitrakis, a young inmate arrested last year after a
bank robbery shootout in downtown Athens that shocked the
country.


"The guards spoke badly to him, he retorted in similar fashion
and they started beating him," the inmate's lawyer Aristides
Economides told MEGA.


The prison has about 460 detainees but only 280 places, a
situation prevalent in Greek correctional facilities.


The semi-state Athens News Agency reported that another protest
had begun at the prison of Agios Stefanos near Patras, western
Greece, with around 200 inmates refusing to return to their
cells.


Other inmates in Larissa and Trikala are refusing to attend
prison meals, news reports said.

