

The European Parliament backed plans on Tuesday for new EU rules
to make cross- border cashless payments in the 27-nation bloc as
easy as domestic payments.


After EU finance ministers struck a deal last month, the
parliament's backing lifts the last major obstacle for member
states to adopt the new rules into national law by November 2009
at the latest.


Welcoming the vote in a joint statement, the European Commission
and the European Central Bank said that it "will provide the
foundation for a single 'domestic' euro payments market."


The plans aim to make cross-border payments by credit card, debit
card, electronic bank transfer, direct debit or other means as
easy, cheap and secure as payments in a single EU country.


"The directive will also underpin consumer protection and enhance
competition and innovation by establishing an appropriate
prudential framework for new entrants to the retail payments
market," the ECB and the Commission said.


"This should encourage technological progress and the realisation
of new product opportunities, such as e-invoicing, which can
provide major benefits to the wider economy," they added.


The EU's executive arm has calculated that the annual cost of
making payments between these fragmented national systems is two
to three percent of gross domestic product and that the shake-up
could save EU consumers 50-100 billion euros (68-136 billion
dollars) per year.


The plans aim to complement an industry initiative, know as the
Single Euro Payment Area, to harmonise non-cash payment rules
next year in the 13 countries that use the euro.

