

Scores of gunmen attacked a Chinese-run oil field in Ethiopia on
Tuesday killing 74 people including nine Chinese nationals, a
government spokesman said.


"It is a massacre. It is a terrorist act, ordered by a terrorist
alliance that includes ONLF," said the prime minister's
spokesman, Berekat Simon, referring to the Ogaden National
Liberation Front separatist group.


The Chinese embassy in Addis Ababa confirmed the attack to AFP
but said they could give no further details. "We are trying to
get more information about it," a spokesman said.


Chinese state media said seven Chinese workers were kidnapped by
gunmen during the attack.


The official Xinhua news agency said around 200 unidentified
gunmen launched the attack on the oil field in Somali state where
China's Zhongyuan Petroleum Exploration Bureau is exploring for
oil.


More than a 100 soldiers protecting the field engaged their
attackers in a fierce 50 minute gun battle, the report said,
citing Xu Shuang, the manager of the Chinese firm.


In an interview with Xinhua, an Ethiopian press official said
that Ethiopian Prime Minister Meles Zenawi had instructed the
ministry of national defense to send immediate reinforcements to
the area.


The oil field is located in Abole, a small town about 120
kilometres (75 miles) away from the Somali state capital of
Jijiga, Xinhua said.


The Ogaden National Liberation Front (ONLF) is a rebel group
fighting for the independence of ethnic Somalis living in
Ethiopia's Ogaden region.


In April last year the group warned international oil firms that
exploring for oil and natural gas in the region "for the benefit
of the Ethiopian regime or any foreign firm will not be
tolerated".

