

Turkey's Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Tuesday named
Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul as the ruling party's candidate for
president, ending speculation that Erdogan, a former Islamist,
would stand himself.


"My brother Abdullah Gul, with whom we established this movement
(the governing Justice and Development Party, AKP)... is the
person who emerged at the end of our evaluations as the candidate
to become Turkey's 11th president," Erdogan told the AKP group in
parliament.


Erdogan had been widely expect to run for the post, but the
prospect sparked harsh objections from secularists who say the
former Islamist, who now describes himself as a conservative
democrat, is a divisive figure with no true commitment to this
mainly Muslim nation's secular system.


The 56-year-old Gul, who is also a deputy prime minister, is
virtually certain to become president thanks to the comfortable
majority of 353 seats that the AKP holds in the 550-member
parliament, which elects the president for a single, seven-year
term.


He is unlikely to get the post in the first two rounds of voting,
when a two- thirds majority of 367 is required, but is a shoo-in
for the third or fourth round, when a simple majority of 276
suffices.


The first round is scheduled for Friday, the second for May 2,
the third for May 9 and the fourth for May 15.


Outgoing President Ahmet Necdet Sezer's mandate expires on May
16.

