

Communist Laos said Tuesday it had freed three North Korean child
refugees after five months' detention and handed them to the
South Korean embassy, ending a dispute that had raised fears for
their lives.


No South Korean diplomats in Laos could immediately be reached
for comment.


Choi Hyok, 12, his sister Choi Hyang, 14, and their friend, 17
-year-old girl Choi Hyang-Mi, fled North Korea via China to Laos
but were arrested last November while trying to cross the Mekong
River into Thailand.


There were fears for their safety when human rights groups
reported that Lao officials had demanded bribes while threatening
to return them to North Korea, where the children would have
faced the threat of abuse or even death.


On Tuesday, Lao Foreign Ministry spokesman Yong Chantalangsy told
AFP that "We gave them to officials at the South Korean embassy
today."


He said Laos had determined that the three were South Korean
nationals and said they had been detained because "at first we
could not determine where they came from because they had no
identification paper with them."


South Korean non-profit group Helping Hands earlier called on
Seoul and Washington to act more boldly to help the children, who
were reportedly orphaned by famine in the late 1990s and seeking
asylum in the United States.


Japan-based Life Funds for North Korean Refugees, which
interviewed the children, said Lao officials had demanded 1,000
dollar bribes for their release. Lao authorities denied the
charges.


Tens of thousands of North Koreans escape to China and often move
on to Mongolia or Southeast Asia to try to secure safe passage to
South Korea.


China returns any refugees it catches as economic migrants.


South Korean diplomats have also been criticised for what rights
groups say is a tacit policy of discouraging refugees for fear of
offending North Korea.


The number of northerners who had made it to South Korea since
the end of the 1950-53 war topped 10,000 in February.

