

The Pakistan Cricket Board said Tuesday it has officially
advertised worldwide for a new national team coach following the
murder of Bob Woolmer.


Former England international Woolmer, 58, was found dead in his
Jamaica hotel room the day after Pakistan lost a World Cup game
to Ireland, knocking them out of the tournament.


The PCB said in a statement that the advertisement had been
forwarded to the International Cricket Council, full member
countries' cricket boards and other international cricket
websites.


The ad, available on the board's website (www.pcb.com.pk) says
the appointment will be for an initial period of two years
starting from June 2007 and that terms and conditions are
negotiable.


It asks for someone who has played at least first class cricket
and who possesses "exceptional communication and man-management
skills" and computer knowledge.


It also stresses good interpersonal skills "to develop and
sustain cohesive team structures" -- a nod to Woolmer's success
in harmonising the often fractious Pakistani team.


The new coach's responsibilities will include working closely
with the selectors and the director of game development, who was
named on Monday as Mudassar Nazar.


Applicants have to send their CVs to the PCB by May 15, it says.


Local media have said that former India coach John Wright, a New
Zealander, and Leicestershire's Tim Boon are the favourites for
the job but the PCB has stayed tight-lipped about candidates.


The Pakistan job is widely regarded as one of the toughest in
World Cricket, due to the high expectations of 160 million
cricket-obsessed people, language difficulties and a series of
recent controversies.


Any coach will also have to virtually rebuild the team from
scratch after the 1992 World Cup champions' humiliating exit from
the 2007 edition in the Caribbean.


In a bid to usher in a new era, Pakistan last week appointed the
relatively young Shoaib Malik as captain to replace Inzamam-ul-
Haq.

