

A German court Tuesday granted prison day releases to a former
Red Army Faction militant after 24 years behind bars amid a
raging debate over new revelations about the group's terror
campaign.


The regional court in the southwestern city of Karlsruhe approved
outings with a court-appointed chaperone from July for Christian
Klar, who has been serving a life term for his role in several
murders with the urban guerrilla group.


Klar's attorney had issued a formal complaint after authorities
in February rejected his appeal for more lenient prison
conditions because he had recently made fiery anti-capitalist
remarks.


Klar, who is eligible for early release in 2009, has also
appealed to German President Horst Koehler for clemency.


This is strongly opposed by most of the families of his victims
because he has never expressed regret for the murders.


Klar was jailed for a series of killings, including the shooting
of federal prosecutor Siegfried Buback, during the RAF's violent
campaign against what it called the oppressive capitalist West
German state and elite in the 1970s and early 1980s.


But an ex-RAF radical came forward this month to say Klar was not
involved in Buback's murder and blamed another man. German
authorities are now reviewing those claims and reports that the
state was aware of testimony in the early 1980s stating that Klar
was not guilty of Buback's killing but failed to act.


Buback was the first victim of a bloody era dubbed the "German
Autumn" of 1977 when he was shot in his Mercedes car by a RAF
gunman on a motorcycle in Karlsruhe.


In February, a German court ordered the release of another RAF
leader, Brigitte Mohnhaupt, after 24 years in jail on the basis
that she no longer poses a threat to society.


The RAF is suspected of killing 34 people before laying down its
arms in 1992. It officially disbanded six years later.

