

The dollar climbed against the euro on Tuesday as the market
prepared for the release of key US economic data.


The euro fell to 1.3566 dollars in early European trade, from
1.3575 dollars in New York late on Monday. The dollar stood at
118.59 yen, compared with 118.64 on Monday.


Investors were waiting for US housing data due Tuesday and growth
figures later in the week that were expected to clarify the
outlook for US monetary policy, dealers said.


"Today's US data will be the first test of the sustainability of
recent dollar gains," Commerzbank analyst Gavin Friend said.


But he added that he expected Tuesday's data and other US
economic figures ahead to be mixed at best, resulting in renewed
dollar weakness.


The dollar came within a whisker of an all-time low against the
euro last week as investors were lured to the European single
currency by the increased chances of higher eurozone interest
rates.


Some analysts believe that the euro remains set to beat its
historic record high of 1.3666 dollars, set on December 30, 2004,
after reaching 1.3637 dollars last week.


Elsewhere on Tuesday, the dollar softened against the yen before
the release of some key Japanese data and corporate earnings this
week.


"Trading is calm as the market is waiting for key US data
released starting today through to Friday," said Masaki Fukui,
senior market economist at Mizuho Corporate Bank's forex
division. "They are also waiting for Japanese indicators."


Japan will see a raft of data and reports on Friday, including
the Bank of Japan's economic outlook, consumer prices, industrial
output and the jobless rate for March.


The yen got a boost overnight from Standard and Poor's raising
Japan's sovereign credit rating for the first time in over 30
years but investors do not expect the Bank of Japan to rush to
raise its super-low interest rates, dealers said.


The euro changed hands at 1.3566 dollars, against 1.3575 dollars
late Monday, 160.87 yen (161.05), 0.6793 pounds (0.6784) and
1.6381 Swiss francs (1.6422).


The dollar stood at 118.59 yen (118.64) and 1.2075 Swiss francs
(1.2095).


The pound was being traded at 1.9973 dollars (2.0004).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold increased to
689.15 dollars per ounce, from 688.70 dollars late on Monday.

