

Europe's main stock markets dropped on Tuesday after a weak
performance by Wall Street overnight, while among individual
share prices British directory publisher Yell dived 21 percent.


In early afternoon trade, London's FTSE 100 index of leading
shares was showing a drop of 0.67 percent at 6,436.10 points.


In Frankfurt the DAX 30 sank 0.65 percent to 7,288.42 points, and
the Paris CAC 40 index fell 0.30 percent to 5,899.84.


The euro fell to 1.3575 dollars.


In New York, the Dow Jones Industrial Average's record-breaking
streak of last week was put on pause Monday as investors awaited
key US economic data over coming days, traders said.


Japanese share prices closed flat Tuesday, weighed down by Wall
Street's retreat and investor caution ahead of a slew of domestic
company results and economic data due this week.


In London, the biggest faller on the FTSE 100 was Yell, which
plummeted 21.3 percent to 482 pence after the publisher warned on
its US business outlook owing to increased competition.


Elsewhere Alliance Boots was again in focus after US private
equity group KKR raised its bid for Europe's biggest pharmacy
chain to 11.01 billion pounds (16.2 billion euro, 22.0 billion
dollars).


Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, which is joined in its bid by the
executive deputy chairman of Alliance Boots, Stefano Pessina,
raised its offer by 4.5 percent to 1,139 pence per Alliance Boots
share.


In Monday afternoon trade, Alliance Boots edged up 0.09 percent
to 1,127.5 pence.


Alliance Boots had Friday accepted KKR's bid of 10.6 billion
pounds. But later faced with a higher rival bid from British
private equity firm Terra Firma worth 10.78 billion pounds, KKR
has moved to increase its own offer.


Across the Atlantic, the Dow index closed down 0.33 percent at
12,919.40 points on Monday, after finishing at an all-time high
of 12,961.98 on Friday, which had marked its third straight
record closing high.


The tech-rich Nasdaq composite lost 0.11 percent to 2,523.67
points on Monday and the broad-market Standard and Poor's fell
0.23 percent to a close of 1,480.93.


In Asia, the Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading
shares fell minutely to 17,451.77 points.


Hong Kong's key Hang Seng Index also closed little changed at
20,572.80 points, as a recovery in China Mobile helped the market
recoup early losses driven by Wall Street.

