

Pope Benedict XVI and Palestinian president Mahmoud Abbas on
Tuesday hailed moves to revive the Middle East peace process, a
Vatican statement said.


The two, in a "cordial" meeting, "in particular appreciated the
commitment, thanks also to the help of the international
community, to the relaunching of the peace process between the
Israelis and Palestinians," the statement said.


The pope and Abbas also "discussed the internal Palestinian
situation, referring to, among other subjects, the difficulties
faced by Catholics and to the value of their contribution to that
society," the statement said.


The audience lasted just 12 minutes and took place in English
without interpreters, Vatican pool reporters said.


The Palestinian leader, who arrived in Rome late Monday, has met
Italian President Giorgio Napolitano and was to meet Tuesday
evening with Prime Minister Romano Prodi.


Abbas also met Tuesday with Cardinal Tarcisio Bertone, the
Vatican secretary of state, who said afterward: "All that goes
towards unity and towards peace ... is very positive."


He added: "There are so many initiatives, by Arab countries as
well as the Quartet, and especially the periodical meetings begun
between the president of the Israeli government and (Abbas) that
are positive steps. Let's hope they bear the desired fruits."


The Middle East Quartet comprises the European Union, Russia, the
United Nations and the United States.


The Palestinian leader began a European tour on April 17 to
appeal for a resumption of aid from the European Union, suspended
after Hamas militants came to power in March 2006.


Abbas has met before with Benedict, in December 2005, when he
invited the pontiff to visit Jerusalem, giving him a symbolic
Palestinian passport.

