

The body of murdered Pakistan cricket coach Bob Woolmer has been
ordered by a coroner to be released to his family in South
Africa, the Daily Gleaner newspaper reported Tuesday.


The body of the 58-year-old former England international has been
in judicial limbo since March 18 when he was found dead in his
Kingston hotel room the day after Pakistan had lost a World Cup
game to Ireland.


Detectives launched a murder investigation after an autopsy
indicated that the former England Test player had been strangled,
but they have yet to name any suspects and expect the case to be
a long, drawn-out affair.


The Kingston coroner in charge of the case meanwhile had ruled
that the body could not be released until after an inquest had
been completed.


That inquest had been scheduled to open on Monday, but this was
postponed by the Jamaican justice ministry following advice from
the Coroner Patrick Murphy. No reason was given for the delay.


The Gleaner said on its website that the police officer in charge
of the murder investigation, Mark Shields was called to Murphy's
office on Monday and he was informed that orders had been given
for the body to be repatriated.


Woolmer's wife Gill and family are resident in Cape Town, South
Africa and have been asking for his body to be sent home to them.


Around 30 police investigators are working full-time on the
Woolmer investigation with over 100 witness statements taken. Two
Pakistan police are also working on the case as are four officers
from Scotland Yard in London.


Woolmer's death has led to a fevered round of speculation as to a
motive. The most common theory is that his death was linked to
match-fixing and illegal betting in cricket.

