

Australian share prices closed down 0.34 percent Tuesday after a
choppy session which saw the market move in and out of positive
territory, dealers said.


The benchmark SP/ASX 200 closed down 21.0 points at 6,188.2,
while the broader All Ordinaries index fell 18.9 points to
6,173.3.


A total of 1.63 billion shares worth 5.90 billion dollars (4.9
billion US) were traded, with 655 stocks down, 595 up and 335
unchanged.


Dealers said the release of lower-than-expected inflation data
for the first quarter to March provided some forward momentum as
investors decided that the Reserve Bank of Australia is not
likely to hike interest rates anytime soon.


But they said it was not enough to overcome market inertia, with
investors reluctant to take new positions ahead of markets being
closed Wednesday for Anzac Day, which commemorates the nation's
war dead.


"We did see a reversal after the inflation data but really the
tone for the day had already been set," CMC Markets senior equity
analyst David Land said.


BHP Billiton finished up 0.01 at 30.01 after reporting record
output of key commodities including iron ore, copper and nickel
for the first nine months of its June fiscal year. Rival Rio
Tinto fell 0.21 to 83.75.


National Australia Bank closed down 0.27 at 43.47, Westpac fell
0.08 to 27.07 but Commonwealth Bank gained 0.02 to 53.15 and ANZ
climbed 0.12 to 31.20.


Telstra fell 0.04 to 4.68 while its T3 depositary receipts
dropped 0.05 to 3.21.

