

Italy's interior ministry has published a "values charter" for
religious minorities that promotes integration while shunning
polygamy and the wearing of face-concealing veils.


The charter, presented late Monday by Interior Minister Giuliano
Amato, enshrines "the right to religious freedom and equality
between man and woman," according to the ministry's website.


The charter advocates the "monogamous family and wants to prevent
women from experiencing humiliation and polygamy," said Carlo
Cardia, the head of the committee that drafted the accord,
according to the ANSA news agency.


The seven-page document refers to European values and those of
the Italian constitution, and condemns terrorism, anti-Semitism
and xenophobia.


Regarding the veil, it says that while "no restrictions on
clothing exist in Italy ... (veils that) cover the face are not
acceptable because they prevent the recognition of the person and
are an obstacle for establishing relationships with others."


Amato said the document would serve as a guide for relations
between the ministry and Italy's various religious communities
and should help "consolidate Italian Islam."


The non-binding charter "cannot be imposed on anyone," Amato
said, adding that it was just the start of a process.


More than a million Muslims make up the second largest religious
community in Italy, after Roman Catholicism.


The largest Muslim organisation, UCOII, was critical of the
charter even though it took part in its drafting.


"The veil has never been humiliating to women," said UCOII
president Mohamed Nour Dachan, adding that he felt the charter
should mention "the positive role of Islam in the history of
Europe."

