

British and Danish forces on Tuesday transferred a third military
base in the southern port city of Basra to Iraqi forces as part
of their gradual troop withdrawal from the country.


Al-Shuaiba logistics base -- which at its peak after the March
2003 invasion of Iraq housed 8,000 coalition troops -- was the
scene of the formal lowering of the British and Danish flags and
the raising of the Iraqi tricolour.


"We will be moving to Basra airport and would pursue our job
there, pending our withdrawal from Iraq in August 2007," said
Danish Colonel Tim Peterson during the handover ceremony.


British military spokesman Major David Gell told AFP the base
would act as a training centre for Iraqi forces, while British
troops will remain on a nearby airbase into next year.


"Shuaiba will provide the Iraqi army with an extensive location
in which to conduct training and consequently serve the progress
of their capability as we move towards provincial Iraqi control
of Al-Basra," Gell said.


Two more bases, Basra Palace and Basra airport, still remain
under the control of British-led coalition forces. The bases
already handed over to Iraqi forces in Basra were Shatt al-Arab
Hotel and Basra State building.


On April 14, the military also handed over security for the
southern oil-rich province of Maysan, the fourth province to be
taken over by Iraqi forces from coalition troops and the third
from the British military.


The handovers by the British military are part of a gradual
withdrawal of troops from Iraq as announced by Prime Minister
Tony Blair in February.


Blair said the number of British troops in Iraq would likely drop
to 5,000 by the end of the year, compared to about 7,200
currently deployed, almost all of them in the south.


But he said British troops would stay at the airport base outside
Basra into 2008 to help Iraqi forces in a support role "for as
long as we are wanted and have a job to do."

