

An estimated 20 percent of Asian men suffer from erectile
dysfunction, an executive from pharmaceutical firm Pfizer said
Tuesday.


"It is a prevalent issue," Jude Selvaraj, Pfizer's medical
adviser in Singapore and Malaysia, told AFP at the launch of
Pfizer's new diagnostic kit to help men deal with erectile
dysfunction.


"You are talking about 20 percent plus," he said, giving a rough
figure.


Sex is still a taboo subject in much of Asia and many men are
reluctant to admit they suffer from the problem, or to seek
medical help, said Selvaraj.


According to Pfizer, which makes the anti-impotency drug Viagra,
erectile dysfunction affects between 13 and 28 percent of all men
aged 40 to 80.


The number of men suffering from the condition is estimated to
increase to 322 million by 2025, from more than 152 million in
1995, Pfizer said.


Pfizer's new diagnostic kit, the Erection Hardness Score (EHS),
grades erection hardness from one to four to provide a guide for
assessing sexual status.


A score of four means the penis is completely rigid while a score
of one means it is larger but not hard, Pfizer said in a
statement.


"The EHS provides a quantitative measure of the degree of
erection hardness and therefore treatment efficacy in patients
with erectile dysfunction," the firm said.


Victoria Lehmann, a sex therapist from Britain, said the EHS was
easy to use and would help couples address the problem.


"It's quick. It provides a really clear language to both doctors
and patients," she said at the launch.


Lehmann likened a score of one to tofu. Four is similar to a
cucumber, she said.


A survey released last week said Asia's lovers rate sex far less
highly than those elsewhere around the globe, spend less time
having intercourse and are not as likely to reach orgasm.


Condom-maker Durex surveyed more than 26,000 people in 26
countries and found Asians ranked themselves among the least
satisfied with their sex lives.

