

India's political hopeful Rahul Gandhi played "Good Samaritan" on
Tuesday, rushing an injured teenage boy to hospital while out
campaigning, a report said.


Gandhi, who is spearheading the national ruling Congress party's
campaign in elections in India's most populous state of Uttar
Pradesh, spotted the teenager bleeding profusely along a
roadside, the Press Trust of India reported.


The MP, scion of the Nehru-Gandhi dynasty which has given India
three premiers, told his motorcade to stop and helped to lift the
teenager into his own car.


The car sped the boy to a nearby hospital in Gandhi's sprawling
federal constituency of Amethi and the politician spent some time
waiting for news on his condition, the news agency said.


The boy, Sushil Kumar, had been stabbed in the stomach but is now
out of danger.


It was unclear how the teenager had been attacked but Gandhi had
told authorities to seek to arrest the culprits, the agency said.


Uttar Pradesh is known as one of India's most lawless states.


"I was desperately waiting for some help to take us to the
hospital. Rahul saw us and stopped. He asked me what had happened
and immediately picked up my son and took him in his car," said
Sushil's mother Devkula.


"Only Rahul could do something like this," she said, according to
the news agency.


Gandhi is fighting an uphill battle to improve Congress's
performance in the state where it has almost been wiped out.


No one expects the 37-year-old novice politician to turn around
the party's fortunes in the Hindi-speaking heartland where the
marathon seven-stage election winds up in May.


But any improvement in Congress's 25-seat tally from the last
election would be seen as a victory for Gandhi.


Prime Minister Manmohan Singh has projected him as the state's
future leader, telling a rally "he is sweating it out for you" to
create a "new Uttar Pradesh," and many Congress members tout him
as a future prime minister.

