

Japanese semiconductor maker Elpida Memory Inc. said Tuesday net
profit jumped more than five-fold in the three months to March
from a year earlier on rising sales of chips for mobile
telephones.


However, earnings from chips used in personal computers fell amid
tough price competition.


Net income jumped to 8.5 billion yen (71.5 million dollars) in
the fourth quarter of the fiscal year, up from 1.5 billion a year
earlier but well below the third quarter's record 24.9 billion
yen, Elpida said in a statement.


Operating profit more than tripled to 14.9 billion yen while
sales almost doubled to 144.2 billion yen.


Elpida said there were signs that previously stagnant demand for
dynamic random access memory chips (DRAMs) used in mobile devices
was starting to recover.


Chip sales for digital consumer electronics and mobile devices
rose 10 percent quarter-on-quarter to top 50 billion yen for the
first time.


"Robust sales of domestic ultra-thin mobile phones and mobile
phones equipped with digital broadcasting TV as well as the use
of DRAMs in midrange mobile phones pushed up demand," Elpida
said.


On the other hand, prices for DRAMs for personal computers
dropped as PC sales declined, it added.


Although operating profit was well up on a year earlier it was
down by about half compared with the third quarter because
profits on PC DRAM chips were hit by severe price competition,
Elpida said.


For the full year to March the chip maker posted a net profit of
52.9 billion yen, against a loss of 4.7 billion the previous
year.


It made an operating profit of 68.4 billion yen, up from 144
million, on revenue which roughly doubled to 490.0 billion yen.


Elpida Memory did not give an earnings forecast for the year to
March 2008 due to uncertainty over the future prices of computer
chips.

