

Heated exchanges marred constitutional court hearings in Ukraine
on Tuesday aimed at resolving a power struggle between the
president and prime minister, as rival protesters rallied
outside.


Tempers flared on the seventh day of hearings in the country's
top court to decide the legality of an April 2 order by President
Viktor Yushchenko to dissolve parliament that has stalled
political life in the country.


An ally of Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych, who claims the
decree was illegal, accused judges of being prejudiced in favour
of the president, while a presidential representative suggested
the process was at risk of breaking down.


Cabinet representative and Yanukovych ally Vasily Nimchenko
refused to answer questions from a group of judges he said had
decided in advance how to rule.


"This shouldn't be turned into a show," presidential
representative Vladimir Shapoval said during a break in the
proceedings, news agency Interfax reported. "If answers aren't
being given in the case... what do we need the case for?"


As the politicians exchanged jibes, around 3,000 demonstrators
supporting pro- Western Yushchenko and his pro-Russian nemesis
Yanukovych kept vigil on the streets outside.


Both have vowed to honour the court's decision but heated
exchanges at the hearings have already prompted one judge,
Vladimir Kampo, to suggest calling off the case, saying it had
"entered the realm of pure politics."


Ruslan Knyazevich, secretary of the pro-presidential Nasha
Ukraina party, said he expected the court to rule on Friday.


Yushchenko and Yanukovych first faced off in 2004 mass uprisings
over a flawed presidential poll that came to be known as the
Orange Revolution.


The current crisis is being closely watched by world powers, but
has wearied many ordinary Ukrainians, whose hopes for dramatic
economic progress and cleaner politics after the Orange
Revolution have long since dissolved.

