

The major powers mediators for Middle East peace are expected to
meet in Egypt early next month, German Foreign Minister Frank-
Walter Steinmeier said Tuesday.


The meeting of the so-called Mideast Quartet -- the European
Union, United States, Russia and the United Nations -- could take
place at the Egyptian coastal resort of Sharm el-Sheikh where
international leaders will be gathered on May 3-4 for a security
conference on Iraq.


"We are working on the next Quartet meeting. I think it will take
place at the beginning of May in Egypt," said Steinmeier at a
press conference in Luxembourg.


Steinmeier, whose country currently holds the EU presidency, said
he would travel to the region to prepare the Quartet meeting, in
particular holding talks with members of the Arab League.


The last Quartet meeting was on February 21 in Berlin. Since then
a new Palestinian government of national unity has been formed
and the Arab League has revived a neglected Middle East peace
initiative.


The Quartet last month reaffirmed that the new Palestinian
coalition must renounce violence, recognise Israel and accept
past peace deals.


Until then, it is retaining an embargo on direct aid to the
Palestinian government, imposed a year ago when Hamas --
considered a terrorist by the US and EU -- formed a cabinet alone
after winning parliamentary polls.


While keeping in place the aid embargo, the Quartet said the new
Palestinian leadership would not be judged solely on its
"composition and platform, but also on its actions."


That was an apparent gesture to moderates in a cabinet that
unites the Islamist movement Hamas with Western-backed
independents and moderate president Mahmud Abbas's Fatah party.


EU foreign ministers meeting in Luxembourg on Monday formally
agreed to have contacts with Palestinian ministers ready to
uphold the Quartet principles. Such contacts have been ongoing
since the unity government was formed.

