

Depression could be a cause of diabetes in the elderly, according
to a study by US researchers which shows that the disease could
result from other than lifestyle factors such as obesity.


The research carried out annually on men and women over 65 in
three states was the first to chart a link between diabetes and
symptoms of depression over a long period.


"Chronic depression or depression that worsens over time may
cause diabetes in older adults," the study's authors at
Northwestern University in Chicago said in a statement Monday
presenting the findings, which are published in Archives of
Internal Medicine.


"This means doctors need to take depressive symptoms in older
adults very seriously because of the effect it has on the
likelihood of developing diabetes," lead author Mercedes
Carnethon, assistant professor of preventive medicine, said in
the report.


"Diabetes is a scourge," she added. "It causes heart disease,
blindness, kidney disease, leg amputations and lowered cognitive
function because it essentially degrades the small and large
blood vessels."


An estimated two million "older adults" suffer from clinical
depression, while people aged 65 and older also have the highest
prevalence of Type 2 diabetes, the report said.


"We know that overweight and obesity are the primary risk factors
for diabetes and most people with Type 2 diabetes are overweight
or obese," Carnethon added.


"But even after we adjusted for body mass index (measure of
height versus weight), we still saw a residual association
between depression and diabetes."


Carnethon suggested that the link may be due to a high level in
depressives of the stress hormone cortisol, which can lead to
lowered levels of insulin, the hormone that helps process sugar
in the blood. Diabetics suffer from insulin deficiency.


Although the study only looked at those over 65, she warned the
trend may also affect depressed younger adults.

