

A global bird flu pandemic could infect one billion people and
kill between two and seven million of them, the World Health
Organisation said Tuesday.


"The next pandemic may cause very high morbidity and mortality in
a few weeks. It could cause one billion cases and two to seven
million deaths," said Jean- Marc Olive, the organisation's
country representative for the Philippines.


The estimates were derived from models based on previous flu
epidemics, he told a forum organised by the Australian embassy.


Even "a modest pandemic lasting over one year might cause losses
as high as three percent of Asia's GDP (gross domestic product)
and 0.5 percent of world GDP," Olive said.


The deadly H5N1 strain of bird flu has killed at least 172 people
since 2003, mostly in Southeast Asia, according to the world
body.


Most human infections have occurred through contact with sick
birds, but scientists fear the virus could mutate and become
easily spread among humans.


The organisation said the evolution of the threat posed by bird
flu "cannot be predicted."


Olive said mass poultry culls could help to avert a human
pandemic, and that countries should boost preventative measures,
strengthen surveillance and prepare for any outbreak.


A recent exercise simulating an outbreak of bird flu in Cambodia
showed that the world body could deliver a large supply of
Tamiflu -- a medicine used to try and treat human cases -- to an
affected country in two days.


But it also showed the need to streamline procedures so aid could
be dispatched more speedily, he said.


Representatives of Australia and the Philippines at the forum
said both countries had been spared cases of the deadly bird flu
virus so far.

