

Hong Kong share prices closed little changed Tuesday as a
recovery in China Mobile helped the market recoup early losses
driven by Wall Street, dealers said.


They said trading was also generally cautious ahead of the
settlement of April futures contracts on Friday.


The Hang Seng Index closed up 16.23 points at 20,572.80, off a
low of 20,396.37 and a high of 20,618.01. Turnover was 47.48
billion Hong Kong dollars (6.08 billion US dollars).


"The market lacked momentum to rise further as investors took a
cautious approach ahead of futures settlement," said Peter Lai,
sales director at DBS Vickers.


"Last week's sharp gains prompted investors to take profit in
select China financials and blue chips," he said.


Sustained gains on China's A-share markets failed to boost local
shares as investors expect the Chinese government to announce
more macro-economic controls to rein in its economy, Lai said.


"Some investors expect the Chinese government to announce
measures during the golden week holiday during the first week of
May ... so they would rather remain sidelined," he said.


China Mobile rebounded slightly after recent falls and helped the
market to recoup early losses.


The mainland telecoms giant closed up 0.55 dollars at 73.35,
recovering from a low of 71.50 in early trade and after slumping
2.8 percent Monday.


Among other large-caps, HSBC was down 0.50 at 144.5, Hutchison
Whampoa was up 0.40 at 76.3, Swire Pacific was down 0.85 at 90.8
and China Construction Bank down 0.02 at 4.89.


Properties were mostly firmer, with Sun Hung Kai Properties up
0.35 at 92.35, Cheung Kong up 1.0 at 102.70, New World
Development up 0.32 at 18.48 and Sino Land down 0.18 at 16.7.


Dealers said the sector was supported by news that an auction has
been triggered for a site in Tuen Mun.


Banks were lower, with Hang Seng Bank down 0.20 at 111.60, Bank
of East Asia down 0.25 at 48.20 and BOC Hong Kong down 0.16 at
19.34.


Emperor Capital Group Ltd., a securities brokerage services
provider spun off by Emperor International Holdings, closed
sharply higher compared to its IPO price on its trading debut.


It closed at 0.68, up 79 percent from the IPO price of 0.38. It
hit an intraday high of 0.77.


Hunan Nonferrous was down 0.24 at 4.66 after announcing that its
earnings per share fell to 0.1449 yuan (0.0178 US dollar) last
year from 0.2015 in 2005.


Haier Electronics rose 0.26 at 2.71 after news that it swung to a
net profit of 262.35 million dollars in 2006 from a loss of
363.75 million dollars a year earlier.


Lingbao Gold was up 0.02 at 6.22 and SMIC was flat at 1.15 ahead
of their results announcements later in the evening.


Among China financials, ICBC was down 0.01 at 4.33, Bank of China
fell 0.03 to 3.94. Bank of Communications was down 0.04 at 8.35
and China Merchants Bank was down 0.30 at 19.4.


China Life was up 0.25 at 25.3 after announcing that its net
profit for the first quarter stood at 8.89 billion yuan, or 0.31
yuan per share, under Chinese accounting standards.


The insurer also clarified that its parent China Life Insurance
Group has no plans for a separate listing.

