

UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon on Tuesday paid his first visit
to Syria for talks with President Bashar al-Assad on Lebanon and
Middle East peace efforts.


Ban, accompanied by UN Middle East envoy Terje Roed-Larsen and
special coordinator for Lebanon, Geir Pedersen, was due also to
meet Vice President Faruq al-Shara and Foreign Minister Walid
Muallem during the day-long visit.


The talks are expected to focus on the planned international
tribunal to try suspects in the 2005 murder in Beirut of former
Lebanese premier Rafiq Hariri and on control of the border
between Syria and Lebanon.


Syria, which has been widely accused of involvement in the murder
despite its repeated denials, and its allies in Beirut are
opposed to the international trial called for by the UN Security
Council.


Damascus also opposes the planned deployment of UN peacekeepers
on the Lebanon- Syria border to prevent the movement of arms to
the Lebanese Shiite militia Hezbollah which last summer fought a
34-day with Israel.


On the Middle East front, Ban hopes his Syrian visit "will be
useful and constructive" in advancing the regional peace process,
UN deputy spokeswoman Marie Okabe said earlier this month.


During a Middle East tour last month, the United Nations
secretary general visited Israel and the West Bank in a bid to
revive peace talks before attending an Arab summit in Riyadh.


He also visited Lebanon where he urged pro- and anti-Syrian
leaders to pursue dialogue in order to reach national
reconciliation and end Beirut's deepest political crisis since
the 1975-1990 civil war.


Ban flew in to Damascus from Qatar where he warned at an
international forum on democracy, development and free trade on
Monday that developing nations will suffer serious damage if the
Doha global trade talks fail.


His predecessor as UN chief, Kofi Annan, last visited Damascus in
September.

