

The haze that engulfed much of northern Thailand throughout
March, battering the region's tourism industry, has eased after
heavy rains and a change in wind patterns, officials said
Thursday.


Forest fires and slash-and-burn farming sent a cloud of smoke and
dust across eight provinces. Chiang Mai -- one of Thailand's top
holiday spots -- Mae Hong Son, Chiang Rai and Lampang provinces
suffered the worst effects.


"The haze situation in Chiang Mai, Chiang Rai and Lampang has
returned to normal," Deputy Prime Minister Paiboon
Wattanasiritham told reporters.


"Mae Hong Son will soon return to normal because everybody is
working hard to solve this problem," he said.


The haze, which began in late February and affected five million
people, prompted three provinces to declare a state of emergency.
Paiboon said the authorities would discuss whether to lift the
measure early next week.


"Because of the heavy downpour last night, the weather in Chiang
Mai is significantly improved -- the sky is clear and there is
sunshine," he said.


Air quality is measured in micrograms of particles of matter per
cubic metre, with 120 considered unhealthy, and 300 considered
dangerous.


The pollution index in Chiang Mai on Thursday morning was between
63.6 and 64.3 micrograms per cubic metre, significantly reduced
from hazardous levels peaking at 382.7 on Wednesday.


Mae Hong Son is still recording unhealthy levels, reporting air
quality of 166.0 micrograms per cubic metre on Thursday.


Apiwat Kunarak, director of the environment office in Chiang Mai,
told AFP by telephone that a reduction in farm burning coupled
with rain and a northeasterly wind helped ease the haze.


Tourism industry experts have warned the haze could have a
serious regional impact, with think tank Kasikorn Research
estimating possible losses in tourism revenue of two billion baht
(60.7 million dollar).

