

A Singaporean man died from a flesh-eating bacterial infection
after being pricked by a crab, his son said Thursday.


Tan Boon Hock, 83, was preparing live crabs for dinner a month
ago when he was pricked on the back of his hand, his son, Tan Aik
Cheng, told AFP.


"I believe when he was washing the crabs he was probably pricked
by the shell of the crab," Tan said.


His father did not initially complain of discomfort and simply
put a plaster over the cut, he said. About midnight, the elder
Tan started having a fever, vomiting, and developed diarrhea.


At first he refused to go to hospital, but at dawn the family
called an ambulance that took him to National University
Hospital, Tan said.


"Paramedics said he was in a critical condition and his heartbeat
was irregular and blood pressure critically low," he said.


"The doctors told me that my dad was infected by a flesh-eating
bug called Vibrio and they needed to amputate the arm below the
elbow to remove the source of infection."


Doctors said the infection started from the hand, Tan said.


His father's condition continued to deteriorate after the
amputation and he died two days after he was pricked.


Associate professor Paul Tambyah, of the infectious diseases unit
at National University Hospital, said Vibrio is a flesh-eating
bacteria that lives in salt water and is found in crabs, clams,
mussels and other shellfish.


"Once it gets through the skin into the tissue under the skin, if
it is able to produce the toxin and if it is not contained by the
immune system, it can spread rapidly and affect distant organs
including the kidney, liver," he said.


Although the mortality rate is high, infections can be treated
with antibiotics or by the surgical removal of the source of
infection, he said.


Doctors told AFP that flesh-eating bacterial infection by Vibrio
is rare among humans in Singapore.

