

Chinese share prices extended record gains Thursday, adding 0.45
percent on Wall Street's sharp overnight advance after the US
Federal Reserve kept interest rates on hold, dealers said.


They said accompanying remarks by the Fed were taken to mean its
rate tightening cycle had ended, clearing the way for stocks to
rise generally.


Turnover was exceptionally heavy at some 22 billion dollars as
investors ploughed in so as not to miss out on the latest upturn
only three weeks after a nine percent crash in Shanghai sparked
turmoil on the global markets.


Further gains in the yuan provided additional support to a market
which has ignored the third interest rate hike in a row announced
at the weekend and seems impervious to any measures taken so far
to curb its ascent.


It may now take much stronger medicine to hold the line, with the
heavy losses in late February sparked by talk of a capital gains
tax -- a move which was no sooner floated than it was dismissed
by the authorities.


The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index, which covers both A- and
B-shares, closed up 13.85 points at 3,071.23 on turnover of
112.65 billion yuan (14.54 billion US dollars).


The inflow of fresh funds pushed the Shanghai Composite to a
record close of 3,057.38 points Wednesday, taking gains over the
last 15 months to more than 150 percent.


The Shanghai A-share Index rose 14.61 points or 0.45 percent at
3,227.02 on turnover of 112.14 billion yuan and the Shenzhen
A-share Index rose 3.08 points or 0.37 percent to 844.05, also a
record, on turnover of 58.60 billion yuan.


"The market was boosted by strong capital inflows reflected in
increased turnover, with strong gains in overseas markets really
giving investors here a shot in the arm, although there was some
profit-taking in late afternoon," said Zhang Yi, an analyst at
Yibang Investment.


Analysts said the upward momentum is likely to continue in the
near term on the back of the rising yuan.


"The upward trend is likely to be maintained ... on the back of
the strong yuan and sales of stock investment fund products which
will reach at least 50 billion yuan for March," said Cao Yan, an
analyst at Soochow Securities.


Energy listings and steelmakers were snapped up amid rotational
buying interest, dealers said.


Hebei Jinniu Energy Resources was up 0.28 yuan or 3.17 percent at
9.11 and Shanxi Antai Group added 0.29 yuan or 3.77 percent at
7.98.


Hunan Valin Steel Tube Wire was up its 10 percent daily limit at
7.83 yuan while Shanxi Taigang Stainless Steel added 0.78 yuan or
4.80 percent at 17.02.


Industrial Bank was up 0.04 yuan or 0.16 percent at 24.82 after
announcing plans to issue 19 billion yuan worth of debt.


Property developers were under pressure on profit-taking with
Goldfield Industries down 0.88 yuan or 4.95 percent at 16.88
while China Vanke lost 0.47 yuan or 2.76 percent at 16.55.


The Shanghai B-share Index was up 0.35 points or 0.20 percent at
177.99 on turnover of 511.18 million US dollars and the Shenzhen
B-share Index rose 0.51 points or 0.10 percent at 508.79 on
turnover of 488.95 million Hong Kong dollars (63.09 million US
dollars).

