

Four more former Livedoor Co. executives were convicted Thursday
over a fraud scandal at Japan's Internet pioneer, with disgraced
IT mogul Takafumi Horie's one-time lieutenant jailed for 20
months.


The Tokyo District Court found all four defendants guilty of
conspiring to inflate earnings at the once high-flying firm.


Horie's one-time right hand man, Ryoji Miyauchi, 39, admitted to
the charges while the other three -- Fumito Kumagai, Fumito
Okamoto and Osanari Nakamura -- admitted to all or part of the
allegations.


"If I could have a chance to be freed, I want to work for those I
troubled," Miyauchi said in his final testimony to the court.


Miyauchi immediately filed an appeal and requested bail, the
court said.


Presiding Judge Toshiyuki Kosaka, who sentenced Horie to two and
a half years in prison last week, gave a suspended 12-month
sentence to Kumagai and suspended 18-month terms to Okamoto and
Nakamura.


Prosecutors had demanded two years and six months in prison for
Miyauchi and 18 months for the three others.


The four former executives were accused of conspiring with Horie
and falsely reporting a pretax profit of some five billion yen
(43 million dollars) for the year to September 2004 to hide
actual losses of 310 million yen.


Unlike the four others, Horie has steadfastly insisted on his
innocence, an unusual practice in Japan which has a near
100-percent conviction rate.


The Livedoor scandal briefly sent the Tokyo stock market into
freefall last year, forcing Asia's largest bourse to close early
for the first time ever.

