

Democratic presidential candidate John Edwards and his wife have
called a news conference for Thursday to discuss his spouse's
health, prompting speculation about the future of his campaign,
US media reported.


The announcement came after the former senator canceled his
attendance at a campaign event in Iowa to join his wife at a
doctor's appointment on Wednesday, the New York Times and CNN
television reported.


Elizabeth Edwards, 57, has previously undergone treatment for
breast cancer and John Edwards has said he chose to run for the
presidency only after doctors provided assurances about her
recovery.


She said in a brief interview from the couple's home in Chapel
Hill, North Carolina, that she and her husband would discuss her
health at the press conference, but did not offer any more
details, the New York Times reported.


"I'm still here," she told the paper.


The news conference was scheduled for noon (1600 GMT) in Chapel
Hill.


There was no official statement from Edwards' staff but one
unnamed close family friend told the Times the pending
announcement would affect the future of the campaign -- at least
temporarily.


On Edwards' website, blogs from supporters carried sympathetic
messages, including, "Good wishes for Elizabeth, our next first
lady."


A decision by Edwards to withdraw from the presidential race
would transform the contest for the Democratic nomination, as he
has been seen as a serious contender behind Senator Hillary
Clinton and Senator Barack Obama.


Elizabeth Edwards had a routine appointment on Monday to check on
her breast cancer, believed to be in remission, but the doctor
asked for her to return again on Wednesday, CNN reported on its
website, citing unnamed sources close to the candidate.


Edwards was John Kerry's running mate in the 2004 election, a
Democratic ticket defeated by President George W. Bush who won a
second term in office.


Edwards' wife was diagnosed with cancer close to the day of the
election.

