

Malaysian piracy syndicates are trying to assassinate two black
labradors after the dogs helped find millions of dollars of fake
DVDs and CDs, a report and officials said Thursday.


Lucky and Flo sniffed out the discs during a raid by Malaysian
officials Tuesday at an office tower in Johor Baru, the capital
of Johor state.


"Sources informed the Ministry of Domestic Trade and Consumer
Affairs that syndicate members are looking for the dogs," said
the ministry's enforcement assistant director, Firdaus Zakaria.


"The dogs are a genuine threat to the pirated disc syndicates,
thus the instruction to eliminate them," he was quoted as saying
in the New Straits Times.


The two dogs, who hail from Northern Ireland, are said to be the
only ones in the world trained to detect polycarbonate and
chemicals used in optical discs.


They either freeze or sit down when they sniff a nearby haul, and
are rewarded by playing with a tennis ball when they have done
their job.


The dogs were brought to Malaysia last week for a one-month trial
by the Los Angeles-based Motion Picture Association (MPA), which
conducts piracy investigations for major motion picture
companies.


Neil Gane, of the MPA, said the dogs were in a secure location in
Kuala Lumpur under heightened security.


"A government agency informed us of the threat against the dogs
and they have assisted in terms of enhancing the security that is
currently surrounding the dogs," Gane told AFP.


Despite the threat, Gane said Lucky and Flo would continue their
mission -- known as "Operation Double Trouble."


"We are taking the threat very seriously and it will be taken
into consideration when we are planning and coordinating with the
(ministry) where we are deploying the dogs next," Gane said.


"Like with any investigator on two legs, we also protect our
four-legged investigators," he added.


Counterfeit movies are openly sold on the streets of Malaysia and
other Asian nations at heavy discounts.

