

Hundreds of demonstrators in eastern China blocked a key railway
for four hours, state press reported Thursday, the latest case of
social unrest apparently linked to the sensitive issue of land
rights.


More than 200 protesters surrounded by "several hundred"
onlookers blocked two railway lines near Guixi township, Jiangxi
province for over four hours on Wednesday afternoon, the People's
Daily reported on its website.


Police were called in to "deal" with the situation and clear the
lines, one of which links the eastern city of Shanghai with
China's southwestern province of Yunnan, the report said.


The protesters were concerned that new zoning regulations in
Guixi placing parts of the city under the control of another sub-
district would lead to a loss of income and welfare benefits, the
paper said, without giving details.


Incidents of social unrest are rarely reported in the state-run
press, as they are a highly sensitive issue for China's communist
rulers who fear that protests could escalate and pose a challenge
to their rule.


When reports do emerge, they generally give a much more watered-
down version compared with eye-witness accounts.


Guixi officials refused to comment on the unrest when contacted
by AFP on Thursday.


China has witnessed a rising number of protests in recent years
especially as a gap between rich and poor has widened as the
economy has boomed. Many of the protests are linked to land use
rights, the government has said.


According to the latest figures from the Ministry of Public
Security, there were 87,000 protests, officially termed "mass
incidents", reported in 2005, up 6.6 percent on 2004 and 50
percent on 2003.

