

South Korea said Thursday it would resume humanitarian aid for
North Korean flood victims next week, in another sign of warming
relations since the North pledged to scrap its nuclear weapons.


Vice Unification Minister Shin Eon-Sang said the shipment of
flood aid, suspended after the North's missile launches last
July, would begin on March 28.


"We will start shipping blankets from March 28, followed by the
shipment of rice, trucks, cement and iron bars between April and
May," he told reporters.


Altogether, South Korea will send 10,500 tons of rice, 70,415
tons of cement, 50 trucks, 60,000 blankets and 1,800 tons of iron
bars, he said.


Next Tuesday, the South will also send the first batch of
fertiliser aid to the North.


South Korea suspended its regular annual shipments of 500,000
tons of rice and 300,000 tons of fertiliser after the missile
tests, and special aid for flood victims was also halted.


Relations were strained further by the North's nuclear test in
October.


Seoul agreed to resume fertiliser aid to its impoverished
neighbour after the North agreed during six-nation talks on
February 13 to dismantle its nuclear programmes.


Early this month the two Koreas resumed high-level bilateral
talks and the South agreed in principle to restart its regular
annual rice aid.


The two nations also pledged to restart a series of other
programmes to improve relations, such as reunions of families
divided since the 1950-53 war.


They will hold a new round of face-to-face family reunions at
Mount Kumgang on May 9-14, while family reunions via video link
will be held at the resort on March 27-29.

