

Japanese share prices jumped 1.70 percent in morning trade on
Thursday, tracking Wall Street higher after the US Federal
Reserve boosted hopes of an interest rate cut later this year,
dealers said.


They said that the market was catching up with two days of gains
on US stock markets after a national holiday in Japan on
Wednesday.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's benchmark Nikkei-225 index of leading
shares gained 292.27 points to 17,455.47.


The TOPIX index of all issues on the Tokyo Stock Exchange's first
section advanced 28.03 points or 1.64 percent to 1,736.32.


Gainers led decliners 1,548 to 129, with 51 stocks flat.


Volume was 1.10 billion shares, up from 916 million on Tuesday
morning.


Dealers took their cue from Wall Street were stocks shot higher
Wednesday after the Federal Reserve kept its key short-term
interest rate anchored at 5.25 percent and boosted hopes for an
easier monetary policy.


Wall Street generally likes rate cuts as opposed to rate hikes
which makes it more expensive to borrow cash and finance deals.


"The Nikkei may climb towards 17,600 in the near term but rises
may come to a halt once short-covering runs out of steam," a
trader at a European asset management firm said.


He said the Federal Reserve's remarks were not completely
positive, noting the possibility that US corporate earnings might
not be as robust as first expected.


"We have to count that in when we focus back on Japanese
corporate earnings outlooks," he said.


Steel and non-ferrous metals stocks were the leading gainers.


Nippon Steel was up 36 yen or 4.34 percent at 865, Kobe Steel
firmed 18 yen or 3.7 percent to 504 and JFE Holdings added 220
yen or 3.08 percent to 7,360.


Mitsubishi Materials climbed 17 yen or 3.04 percent to 576 and
Sumitomo Metal Mining rose 70 yen or 3.06 percent to 2,355.


Exporters were higher, also helped by the yen's relatively softer
tone in foreign exchange trading, dealers said.


Sony gained 150 yen or 2.46 percent to 6,240, Advantest rose 180
yen or 3.32 percent to 5,600 and Toyota Motor advanced 90 yen or
1.16 percent to 7,830.


Mazda Motor ended the morning 23 yen or 3.61 percent higher at
660 after a report it planned to increase domestic production by
about 15 percent by the fiscal year ending March 2009.

