

Zimbabwean police have released two opposition officials arrested
at the airport on their way to neighbouring South Africa to seek
treatment following assaults by security forces, their lawyer
said Thursday.


"Sekai Holland and Grace Kwinje have been released from police
custody following an order by (high court judge) Justice Bharat
Patel," lawyer Alec Muchadehama told AFP.


The judge also restrained the state from barring the pair's trip
to South Africa for medical treatment.


Holland, secretary for policy and research of the opposition
Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) and the party's
international relations chief Kwinje, were among scores of
opposition officials and activists including MDC leader Morgan
Tsvangirai assaulted by security forces blocking an anti-
government rally in Harare almost two weeks ago.


The pair were placed under police guard at the private Avenues
clinic in Harare on Saturday and their passports were seized at
the Harare international airport from where they were due to fly
to South Africa.


Muchadehama said Kwinje and Holland's injuries were serious and
they required urgent specialist attention only available in South
Africa.


The court ordered that the opposition officials' lawyer notify
the police of their whereabouts while outside Zimbabwe.


"They shall make themselves available in Zimbabwe in order to be
served with such summons as may be issued against them to answer
such criminal charges as may be preffered against them," the
judge said.


Police have also returned the passport of Arthur Mutambara,
leader of a breakaway opposition faction also arrested at the
airport as he sought to fly out of the country.


MDC lawmaker Nelson Chamisa, who suffered serious injuries to his
head and one eye when he was picked up by suspected state
security agents on his way to the airport, en route to Brussels,
was still hospitalised on Thursday.

