

Singapore is closely monitoring overseas reports of abnormal
behaviour associated with patients taking the drug Tamiflu and
will take action if needed, the Health Sciences Authority (HSA)
said Thursday.


Suwarin Chaturapit, a deputy director at the agency, said HSA was
aware of the reports, mainly from Japan, but added there was
still no "direct causal link" between such behaviour and the
antiviral drug oseltamivir, contained in Tamiflu.


"Nonetheless, the Health Sciences Authority has been keeping our
local health- care professionals informed about these reports so
that patients prescribed oseltamivir will be monitored closely,"
she said in a letter to The Straits Times.


"HSA will also continue to monitor the overseas situation closely
and take action to safeguard public health when warranted."


She said oseltamivir was a prescription-only medicine in
Singapore and should be used only under medical supervision.


Tamiflu is seen as the frontline drug against a global bird flu
pandemic, but has come under investigation in Japan after dozens
of people who took the drug for conventional flu killed
themselves.


Japan's health ministry has ordered the importer of Tamiflu to
warn that teenagers should not be prescribed the medication after
further reports of abnormal behaviour by patients.


An investigation last year by the US Food and Drug Administration
into the deaths in Japan concluded there was no link with
Tamiflu.


South Korean officials said Thursday they would issue warnings on
the use of Tamiflu following the reports of severe psychological
side affects on Japanese users.


The virulent H5N1 bird flu virus has killed at least 169 people
around the world since late 2003 through contact with infected
birds, according to the World Health Organisation.

