

Indian share prices were up 2.35 percent in noon trade on
Thursday, gaining for a fourth straight day led by strong global
trends after the US Federal Reserve kept interest rates
unchanged, dealers said.


The Federal Reserve kept rates on hold at 5.25 percent after a
two-day meeting and hinted that the rate hiking cycle could be
over.


The 30-share Mumbai stock exchange Sensex index crossed the key
13,000 points level and was up 304.11 points at 13,249.99 at 0615
GMT.


The Sensex has risen 6.59 percent so far this week.


"The global clues are strong after the US Fed meeting. However,
the market's bounce-back is too sharp and we could see investors
book profits again," said Hiten Mehta, a fund manager at Fortune
Financial Services.


Analysts expect India's central Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to
maintain a monetary tightening bias, but interest rates may not
be hiked.


"The RBI will maintain tight liquidity conditions, but it may not
hike interest rates, as we expect inflation to ease off a bit,"
said Rajeev Malik, Asia economist at J.P. Morgan Chase Bank,
based in Singapore.


The RBI meets on April 24 this year to decide full-year monetary
policy.


India's inflation rate of 6.46 percent is close to its two-year
peak of 6.73 percent.


Banking stocks rose on Thursday after India's finance minister P.
Chidambaram on Wednesday said a liquidity squeeze would ease in
coming days.


The Indian rupee rose to an 18-month high of 43.8 against the
dollar on Wednesday as lenders bought the currency, with tax
payments due by March-end.

