

Japanese share prices closed up 1.49 percent at a three-week high
Thursday, tracking Wall Street higher after the US Federal
Reserve raised hopes of an interest rate cut later this year,
dealers said.


They said that the market was catching up with two days of gains
in US stocks after a national holiday in Japan on Wednesday.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's benchmark Nikkei-225 index of leading
shares rose 256.00 points to 17,419.20, the best finish since
March 1.


The TOPIX index of all issues on the Tokyo Stock Exchange's first
section advanced 23.51 points or 1.38 percent to 1,731.80.


Gainers beat decliners 1,453 to 206, with 72 stocks flat.


Volume rose to 2.16 billion shares from 1.90 billion on Tuesday.


Dealers took their cue from Wall Street were stocks shot higher
Wednesday after the Federal Reserve kept its key short-term
interest rate anchored at 5.25 percent and boosted hopes for an
easier monetary policy.


Wall Street generally likes rate cuts as opposed to rate hikes
which makes it more expensive to borrow cash and finance deals.


"The Tokyo market mirrored sharp gains on the US stock markets on
the back of the change in the Fed's stance on interest rates,"
said Norihiro Fujito, senior investment strategist at Mitsubishi
UFJ Securities.


"But the market had difficulty in rising further because there
was selling near the 17,500-point level," he added.


Analysts noted that the Federal Reserve's remarks were not
completely positive as slowing growth would crimp corporate
earnings.


"The possibility of lower interest rates in the US implies a
decline in the economy," said Fujito.


Steel makers and non-ferrous metals companies were major gainers.


Nippon Steel was up 37 yen or 4.5 percent to 866, Sumitomo Metal
Industries rose 16 yen or 2.8 percent to 592, Kobe Steel climbed
14 yen or 2.9 percent to 500 and JFE Holdings advanced 260 yen or
3.6 percent to 7,400.


Mitsubishi Materials was 15 yen or 2.7 percent higher at 574,
Sumitomo Metal Mining rose 30 yen or 1.3 percent to 2,315 and
Dowa Holdings added 52 yen or 4.3 percent to 1,249.


Mazda Motor won 23 yen or 3.61 percent to 660 after a report it
planned to increase domestic production by about 15 percent by
the fiscal year ending March 2009, dealers said.


Hitachi gained 26 yen or 3.0 percent to 879 after announcing
plans to shut a a Mexican plant making components for hard-disk
drives, dealers said.


On the foreign exchange market, the dollar edged down to 117.51
yen in Tokyo afternoon trade from 117.56 in New York late


The euro was at 1.3389 dollars from 1.3368 and at 157.28 yen
after 157.41.

