

Sri Lanka on Thursday freed a Tamil journalist detained for more
than four months after she petitioned the Supreme Court that she
was being illegally detained.


Maunasami Parameswaree, 25, a reporter on the Sinhalese-language
Maubima, or Motherland, newspaper, was arrested in November for
her alleged links with Tamil Tiger rebels.


The authorities had maintained that she had close links with a
Tamil Tiger suicide bomber, but she was never formally charged.


Within 10 days of her arrest, the government invoked the tough
Prevention of Terrorism Act (PTA), which allows the detention of
suspects for long periods without trial.


She filed action in the Supreme Court, arguing that her basic
rights had been violated.


But before judges could take up the case Wednesday, the state
attorney general said the authorities were freeing her without
charge.


Over the past 15 months, nine media workers have been killed in
Sri Lanka and rights groups have expressed concern over
deteriorating conditions for journalists.


Media organisations have described Sri Lanka as the most
dangerous place for journalists after Iraq.


Rights group the Free Media Movement said Parameswaree "was
subject to and a victim of a persistent campaign of hate by
government ministers, select media and ultra-nationalist voices."


The allegations were a "baseless" attempt to "mould public
opinion against her," the media rights group said.


It said a report carried by several national dailies alleging
that the authorities found a 10-kilo (22-pound) bomb and 10 land
mines after questioning the reporter and a friend was untrue.


"It was later discovered that this story was entirely fabricated
and planted in the media," the rights group said in a statement
shortly after Parameswaree's colleagues arrived at the court.


Parameswaree's lawyer said they were yet to decide whether to
press ahead with court action to obtain strictures against the
police and obtain compensation for wrongful incarceration.

