

The dollar slid to two-year lows against the euro in Asian trade
Thursday after the US Federal Reserve appeared to open the door
to a possible interest rate cut later this year, dealers said.


At one point, the euro jumped to 1.3410 dollars, its highest
level since March 2005.


By mid-afternoon in Tokyo, the euro was changing hands at 1.3389
dollars, up from 1.3368 in New York late Wednesday, and was at
157.28 yen after 157.41.


The dollar edged down to 117.51 yen from 117.56.


"The dollar selling pressure is a result of players reacting to
the Fed statement," said Kazuhiro Kaneko at Mizuho Trust and
Banking.


After keeping its benchmark interest rate unchanged at 5.25
percent, the Fed tweaked its policy statement in what some saw as
a move to lay the ground for a potential cut in rates in the face
of economic weakness.


"Euro buying sentiment is likely to stay strong for the time
being on expectations of a narrowing of interest rate
(differentials) between the euro and the dollar," Kaneko said.


The European Central Bank last week hiked eurozone borrowing
costs by a quarter- point to a five-and-a-year high of 3.75
percent and analysts believe further increases are in the
pipeline.


The Fed policy statement meanwhile dropped a reference to
"firming" or hiking rates, substituting such language with the
phrase "future policy adjustments" depending on economic
conditions.


Concerns about the US housing market and mortgage lenders who
made loans to people with poor credit histories have mounted in
recent weeks, fanning concerns about the pace of the US economic
slowdown.


But market watchers said the dollar might soon halt its decline.


"The market has managed to start digesting the housing concerns
and it is doubtful that the dollar will go into freefall because
stocks on Wall Street are performing steadily," Kaneko said.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average jumped 159.42 points or 1.30
percent to close at 12,447.52 on Wednesday as investors welcomed
the hints of a possible rate cut, which is generally positive for
stocks.


The dollar fell to 48.26 Philippine pesos from 48.44 late
Wednesday, to 9,107 Indonesian rupiah from 9,135 and to 937.15
South Korean won from 937.75.


It declined to 1.5176 Singapore dollars from 1.5250 and to 33.06
Taiwan dollars from 33.08.

