

Business leaders in Nepal have agreed to call off a strike over
Maoist intimidation after winning assurances from the prime
minister that action will be taken, official media said Thursday.


The three-day strike, sparked by the abduction and beating of a
hotelier who refused to pay the Maoists, has seen commercial
activity in the capital halted and the entire country's Internet
access cut for two hours a day.


Organisers said the attack on the hotel owner was merely the
latest in a long string of mafia-like action by the Maoists, who
had pledged to abandon violence four months ago when they signed
a peace deal with central government.


The business leaders had been seeking security guarantees from
the government.


"Prime minister Girija Prasad Koirala has said the government is
fully committed to resolve the problems faced by the industrial
sector and to provide full guarantee of security to
entrepreneurs," the state-run Rising Nepal reported.


"The businessmen have warned that they would launch agitation
again if the commitments were not implemented," the state-run
Rising Nepal said.


The Maoists have admitted that two members of an affiliated trade
union had been involved in the attack and that they had been
suspended.


In his first response to the strike, Maoist leader Prachanda told
reporters and business leaders Wednesday that he wanted to "sort
out problems through dialogue."


"Some mistakes have occurred on our part and we are ready to
correct them," said Prachanda, whose nom de guerre means "the
fierce one".


The Maoists and the government signed a peace deal in November
2006, ending a decade of civil war in which more than 13,000
people died.


Under the deal, the Maoists agreed to register their fighters and
weapons with the United Nations and enter the political
mainstream.

