

The Organisation of Petroleum Exporting countries on Thursday
tried to soften global concerns about decreasing oil supplies,
saying OPEC was committed to providing enough for world
consumption.


"OPEC is committed to ensure steady, secure supplies of crude oil
to all consumers at affordable prices both now and in the
future," OPEC president Mohammed al-Hamili told a conference in
Bangkok.


"We are determined to develop sufficient production capacities in
tandem with growth in demand to meet world oil needs," said al-
Hamili, who is also Minister of Energy in the United Arab
Emirates.


The 12-member oil cartel pumps more than a third of the world's
oil production and about four-fifths of proven crude oil
reserves.


Addressing concerns of decreasing global oil inventories, al-
Hamili said the existing supply was sufficient, but declined to
comment on the possibility that OPEC might decide to increase
output at its next meeting.


"We supply to the market. When there is a decrease in inventory,
they come to us and we give them supply," he told reporters.


"We are ready to pump more whenever there is a requirement," he
added.


In its monthly report published March 15, OPEC said that world
oil demand would grow by 1.5 percent in 2007 from the level last
year, matching its forecast in January and February.


Al-Hamili said Thursday that OPEC's supply to the world market
was expected to rise by nearly 60 percent by 2030.


The OPEC president was in the Thai capital for the opening of a
three-day meeting focusing on Asian energy needs.

