

The owner of an illegal coal mine in northern China has been
arrested for allegedly trying to cover up an accident that left
at least 19 workers dead, state press reported Thursday.


Rescuers had found 19 bodies following a gas blast at the
colliery in Shanxi province, China's coal mining heartland,
Xinhua news agency said, citing work safety officials.


The confirmed death toll had stood at 13 on Wednesday but six
more bodies were recovered overnight. Two other bodies were
believed to still be underground.


Xinhua reported that 11 people had been arrested for their links
to the accident, including Wang Junjun, the owner of the
Miaojiang coal mine who had allegedly tried to conceal the
disaster.


The explosion occurred on Sunday night but Wang failed to report
it and authorities only became aware of the accident on Tuesday
when informed by other people connected to the mine, Xinhua said.


Authorities said the mine had been operating illegally because it
had disobeyed a government order to merge with a nearby colliery,
a move that was intended to improve work safety practices.


China's coal mines are regarded as the most dangerous in the
world, with 4,746 workers dying in 2,845 accidents last year,
according to official figures.


Independent labour groups put the death toll at as many as 20,000
miners annually, as mine operators often cover up accidents to
avoid costly shutdowns and fines.


"Miaojiang coal mine is not the first nor the last coal mine to
delay the reporting of an accident or attempt a cover-up," Xinhua
said.


It said the incident was further evidence that local authorities'
supervision of the coal mining industry nationwide was extremely
weak.


"More should be done to improve coal mining safety," Xinhua said.

