

More than half of the 1.3 million students in public and private
high schools in the Philippines are unfit for college, the
government said Thursday.


Department of Education said the results of the National Career
Assessment Examination showed that just 49,066 or 3.76 percent
have "high aptitude" for university education while 478,909 or
36.69 percent had "moderate aptitude."


The rest had "low aptitude" and were rated as likely to fail
university.


Nelia Benito, head of the department's National Education Testing
and Research Center, said the test sought to assess the students
in general scholastics, entrepreneurial skills and non-verbal
ability.


Education Secretary Jesli Lapus said the results showed a
majority of high school students are not fit for college and
should take the technical and vocational track.


He criticised young people for instead wanting to become "dancers
and actors."


"The tests supports our theory that a lot of our students are
better suited to take the technical-vocational track. And it
supports the shift in our policy directions for education," Lapus
said.


He said there were more than half a million blue collar jobs not
being filled due to a shortage of skilled workers in the country
while millions remain unemployed.


"We have to address what we call as the 'job mismatch'. Out of
the 2.6 million unemployed Filipinos, around 1.1 million are
college graduates.


"But at the same time, we have 650,000 technical jobs available
in the local market, and we cannot fill in the vacancies because
our applicants lack the required skills," Lapus said.

