

Japan's Hitachi Ltd. said Thursday that one of its subsidiaries
would close a plant in Mexico with the loss of about 4,400 jobs
as the technology firm reorganises its hard-disk drive
operations.


The job cuts are equivalent to about 11 percent of Hitachi Global
Storage Technologies Inc.'s 40,000-strong global workforce, the
company said in a statement.


The closure of the Guadalajara plant is part of a broader
restructuring plan that the company hopes will save it 300
million dollars over five years.


At the same time, Hitachi plans to expand its hard-disk drive
operations in the Philippines, China and Thailand to bring them
closer together.


The overall Hitachi group, which employs 356,000 people
worldwide, has been hit this year by weak sales of DVD recorders,
lower hard-disk drive prices and the cost of repairs to damaged
turbines supplied to two nuclear power stations.


It expects a net loss of 55 billion yen (468 million dollars) in
the 12 months to this March.


The company said the restructuring should shorten its
manufacturing process and boost productivity.


"Manufacturing and development consolidation is one of the top
initiatives we are undertaking to achieve long-term business
health and to underscore Hitachi's commitment to the hard drive
business," Hiroaki Nakanishi, the chief executive of the Hitachi
subsidiary, said in a statement.


"This strategic manufacturing plan will not only improve
Hitachi's competitiveness but will also benefit our customers by
gaining greater supply flexibility, more advanced technologies
and faster time to market."


Hitachi Global Storage Technologies was founded in 2003 through
the combination of the hard-disk drive businesses of Hitachi and
US giant IBM.

