

Twenty-one Chinese environmental groups urged consumers to
boycott products from a list of named companies allegedly causing
water pollution, including several multinationals, state media
said on Thursday, World Water Day.


The Institute of Public and Environment Affairs, one of the
participating groups, released a blacklist compiled using the
group's data collected over a number of years from a range of
environmental watchdogs, the report said.


It aimed to "(put) pressure on enterprises that cause pollution
to change their ways," said Ma Jun, the group's head, according
to the China Daily.


Several multinational companies, including Pepsi-Cola
International (Changchun) Co Ltd in northeast China and Panasonic
Battery (Shanghai) Co Ltd, were named on the blacklist.


The list also contained local firms, the paper said, without
providing names.


In order to save money, some enterprises do not build sewage
treatment plants at all while others just leave such facilities
unused, the newspaper said in a separate report.


Liao Xiaoyi, the founder of Earth Village, another group involved
in the event, said the companies' behaviour posed a serious
public health threat.


"But because of the booming economy, they are enjoying big sales
without being punished," he said. "This sends the wrong message
that they don't have to worry about protecting the environment."


The China Daily said according to a study last year, water in the
Yangtze River could be completely unusable in 10 years unless
effective measures are adopted to stop the discharge of untreated
waste water.

