

North Korea's chief nuclear envoy entered Beijing airport on
Thursday, an AFP reporter there said, apparently to take a
scheduled flight back to Pyongyang following a breakdown in
disarmament talks.


Kim Kye-Gwan passed reporters waiting at the entrance to the
airport about 2:30 pm (0630 GMT) without making any comment.


A flight with North Korean national carrier Air Koryo was due to
depart Beijing for Pyongyang at 3:00pm.


China's official Xinhua news agency reported earlier that the
six-nation talks could break up on Thursday in deadlock, as North
Korea had refused to negotiate until 25 million dollars in frozen
funds was returned to it.


However, a Chinese foreign ministry official at the talks press
centre told AFP after Kim arrived at the airport that no
announcement had yet been made on the end of the talks.


"As far as we know, the talks have not ended or gone into
recess," the official said.


The United States, which froze the 25 million dollars in a Macau
bank in 2005 due to accusations of North Korean money laundering
and counterfeiting, said on Monday when talks started that it
would allow the money to be returned.


Chief US envoy Christopher Hill and other negotiators had
expected North Korea to be satisfied with the move, and that they
would spend the next few days fleshing out a roadmap for
disarmament.


But Kim refused to negotiate until the money was safely
transferred into a North Korean bank account in Beijing.


Due to a myriad of technical problems, the money was not sent
from Macau to the North Korean account.


Under a six-nation accord signed on February 13, North Korea
agreed to initially shut down its main nuclear reactor at
Yongbyon by mid-April and allow UN inspectors back into the
country.


In return, the impoverished regime would initially receive 50,000
tonnes of heavy fuel for energy use.

