

A colossal squid weighing nearly half a tonne (ton) and believed
to be the biggest ever caught is being kept on ice as scientists
ponder whether to put it into a massive microwave oven.


The squid, caught by New Zealand fishermen in Antarctica last
month has been measured at the Museum of New Zealand in
Wellington at 495 kilograms (1,090 pounds) and 10 metres (33
feet) in length. Its weight had earlier been estimated at 450
kilograms.


But scientists say the frozen squid is so large, by the time the
centre of the aquatic giant is defrosted the outer flesh could
have rotted.


So they are considering using a massive one tonne (ton) microwave
oven to speed up defrosting, said Steve O'Shea, a squid expert at
Auckland University of Technology.


"A microwave of this sort of size does exist," he told Radio New
Zealand on Thursday.


No final decision has been made on how to defrost the colossal
squid, which has eyes as big as a dinner plate. If anyone made
squid rings from the beast, they would be as big as tractor
tires.


But there are no plans to eat the beast, partly because the flesh
contains so much ammonia it would taste like floor cleaner.


More importantly, the squid will be preserved because it is
believed to be by far the biggest ever caught. The previous
largest colossal squid -- mesonychoteuthis hamiltoni -- was
believed to have been 300 kilograms.


The museum plans to embalm the squid and put it on display, also
offering access to scientists.


The squid was caught when it started eating a Patagonian
toothfish caught at a depth of 1,800 metres on a longline of a
New Zealand fishing trawler in Antarctic waters.


Colossal squid are related to giant squid but are much heavier.

