

Israel on Thursday welcomed and the Palestinians slammed a
decision by major world powers to extend a controversial aid
boycott to the new Palestinian unity cabinet led by Islamist
Hamas.


"We are satisfied with the Quartet decision," Israeli government
spokeswoman Miri Eisin told AFP.


"We cannot be but happy that the international community does not
accept the programme of the Palestinian government and continues
to demand acceptance of the three conditions that it imposed,"
Eisin said.


On Wednesday, the Middle East Quartet -- the European Union,
Russia, the United Nations and the United States -- reaffirmed
that the new Palestinian coalition must renounce violence,
recognise Israel and accept past peace deals.


Until then, the Quartet would keep in place an embargo on direct
aid to the Palestinian government, imposed a year ago when Hamas
-- considered a terror group in the West -- formed a cabinet
alone after winning parliamentary polls.


But in an apparent gesture to moderates in the government that
united the radical Hamas with Western-backed moderates, the
Quartet said the new leadership would not be judged solely on its
"composition and platform, but also its actions."


In Ramallah, a spokesman for moderate Palestinian president
Mahmud Abbas, Nabil Abu Rudeina, said that the Quartet statement
"reflects an evolution of its positions, (but) this remains
insufficient."


"We have to work immediately toward the application of the
roadmap and the Arab peace initiative," he said.


He was referring to the Quartet peace initiative that calls for
an independent and viable Palestinian state alongside a secure
Israel and an Arab initiative that called for full normalisation
of relations with the Jewish state in return for it withdrawing
from all occupied Arab land.

