

Three of Franco-Spanish cigarette maker Altadis's biggest
investors have urged the company's board to accept a takeover bid
from Britain's Imperial Tobacco if rivals do not emerge as
bidders soon, The Times reported on Thursday.


Imperial offered 11.5 billion euros (15.2 billion dollars) for
Altadis last week but the takeover was unanimously rejected.
Altadis said that the 45-euros-per- share approach undervalued
the company and its prospects.


US investment funds Franklin Mutual Advisers, Fidelity, and
Morgan Stanley, which together with their affiliates own around
23 percent of Altadis, have told the cigarette maker's board that
they see a deal as necessary because of consolidation in the
tobacco sector.


"While obviously they would like to see a higher offer, the
largest shareholders also don't want this deal to run away," an
unnamed source told The Times.


"They want a deal to be done ... And if Imperial is the only game
in town, then they will back it."


The Times also said that unidentified sources close to the bid
said that Imperial Tobacco may consider a hostile bid as a last
resort.


The Spanish business media have reported that Altadis has opened
negotiations with the world's leading cigarette maker, Philip
Morris, for a joint counter bid for Imperial.


Furthermore, the Spanish business daily El Economista reported
that if Philip Morris was not interested, Altadis would approach
British rival BAT to help it buy Imperial.


Altadis, which owns the Gauloises and Fortuna brands and has a
significant cigar business, counts France and Spain as its main
markets.


Imperial, meanwhile, produces Lambert and Butler cigarettes and
is very strong in its domestic market and Germany.

