

Indian Foreign Minister Pranab Mukherjee arrived in Tokyo on
Thursday for a three-day visit that is expected to focus on
maritime security and nuclear energy.


Mukherjee was due to hold separate meetings with Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe and Foreign Minister Taro Aso later in the day, the
foreign ministry said.


Ahead of his departure, the Indian foreign minister told the
Nikkei business daily that he plans to discuss ways to jointly
secure sea lanes in the Indian Ocean against piracy to contribute
to energy security in the region.


Japan, which has been seeking to boost ties with India to counter
frequent tension with China, agreed in December to hold naval
exercises with New Delhi this year.


The drill, which the United States may join, is expected to focus
on safety measures to be taken in the event of a major natural
disaster in the Pacific such as a tsunami.


The Indian minister also plans to use the trip to discuss
possible cooperation in the field of nuclear energy for civilian
use, while seeking a tie-up with Japan on economy, defence and
technology, the daily reported.


In December, Tokyo agreed to start talks with India on a free-
trade pact but declined to extend support to a landmark deal
between the United States and India offering access to US
civilian nuclear technology.


Last month, India and Japan settled the terms of negotiations for
the free trade deal, after Abe had agreed with his Indian
counterpart Manmohan Singh in December to conclude the trade
talks within two years.

