

Jason Williams became the latest player to step up for the
reigning National Basketball Association champion Miami Heat.


With Dwyane Wade still injured and Shaquille O'Neal in foul
trouble much of the night, Williams scored 21 points and had
eight assists to lead six Heat players in double-figures in a
91-83 win over Southeast Division foe Atlanta on Wednesday.


The victory moved the Heat into a virtual tie, just percentage
points behind Washington for first place in the division and
third place in the Eastern Conference.


Atlanta cut Miami's lead to 83-80 on two free throws by Josh
Childress with 1:17 remaining in the game.


Williams answered with an 18-foot jumper to push the lead back to
85-80 with 63 seconds to play. He sealed the victory with four
free throws in the final 25 seconds.


"I just took the shots that were open tonight," Williams said.
"It is critical for us to win every game we play, to try and get
home-court advantage in the playoffs.


"It seems like someone has been out for us all year long, so we
just have to keep doing what we have to do to win," he added. "I
was trying to be aggressive tonight. They were pressing and
trapping, but when they decided not to double- team me, I just
had to be aggressive and take the shot."


Miami led by as many as 15 points with 1:56 remaining in the
third quarter, but the Hawks surged back with a 14-4 run over
four minutes in the fourth.


Eddie Jones had 14 points and Shaquille O'Neal, battling foul
trouble most of the game, added 12 and six assists for the Heat.


"It's a different game without Shaq," Heat coach Pat Riley said.
"We were scrambling for a couple of minutes."


The Heat are now 11-3 since Wade injured his shoulder February 21
at Houston. Five different players have led the team in scoring
in his absence.

