

Indian mobile-phone firm Idea Cellular has signed a deal with IBM
potentially worth as much as 800 million dollars to the US
technology giant, the company said Thursday.


Under the 10-year pact, International Business Machines will
provide Idea Cellular with technology backup and handle business
processes ranging from billing and cedit collection to subscriber
management and fraud control.


The deal, depending on Idea Cellular's revenue and business
expansion, will be worth between 600 million dollars and 800
million dollars, a statement said.


"We will harness IBM's power to support Idea's explosive growth
... with the most advanced business processes globally," Idea
Cellular Managing Director Sanjeev Aga said in the statement.


The deal will reinforce IBM's position as a leading partner to
telecommunication companies, said Shankar Annaswamy, who heads
IBM India.


Idea Cellular, which is listed on the Bombay Stock Exchange and
the National Stock Exchange, is a part of the 12-billion-dollar
Aditya Birla group.


With 14 million existing customers, the mobile-phone company has
expansion plans that will enable it to cover 70 percent of India,
the world's fastest-growing cellular market.


India's mobile-phone service providers are expanding to tap a
market in which just 13 per 100 people have a mobile phone,
compared with a 40 percent penetration rate in China.


By 2010, India is expected to have 500 million mobile-phone
subscribers, according to a government forecast, as call charges
drop along with handset prices under the pressure of competition.


British telecom giant Vodafone won the bidding last month to
purchase Hong Kong- based Hutchison Whampoa's 67-percent stake in
India's Hutchison Essar for 11.1 billion dollars in cash.

