

Japan has no plans to stop stockpiling Tamiflu for a possible
bird flu pandemic despite questions over the blockbuster drug's
psychological side effects, a health official said Thursday.


"At this moment no changes have been made to the (policy on)
Tamiflu stocks," said health ministry official Takahiro Inoue.


"The Tamiflu that is stocked is not used for the popular form of
influenza but for bird flu, against which we have no other
weapon," he added.


Japan on Wednesday instructed the Japanese subsidiary of Swiss
drugmaker Roche, the manufacturer of the anti-flu medecine, to
warn against its prescription for teenagers.


Tamiflu has come under investigation in Japan after dozens of
people who took the drug killed themselves.


In one recent case a 14-year-old boy leapt to his death last
month from the 11th floor of an apartment block in northern
Japan.


An investigation last year by the US Food and Drug Administration
into the deaths in Japan concluded there was no link with
Tamiflu.


Swiss drugmaker Roche, the manufacturer of Tamiflu, has
repeatedly denied any connection between the drug and the
incidents.


Japan buys more than 60 percent of the world's Tamiflu, which is
considered a frontline drug against a potential pandemic of bird
flu or other forms of influenza.


Japan's health ministry announced just earlier this month that it
would increase its stocks to cover another three million patients
at a cost of 6.8 billion yen (58.7 million dollars).


The virulent H5N1 bird flu virus has killed at least 169 people
across the world since late 2003 through contact with infected
birds, according to the World Health Organisation.

