

Four-time Russian Olympic champion Alexander Popov says the
Australian swim team could crack under the weight of national
expectations at the world championships here next week.


Popov, who won the 50m and 100m freestyle sprint double at the
1992 Barcelona and 1996 Atlanta Olympics, said Australia's
leading swimmers could be mentally exhausted before their races.


"Athletes do know what they are meant to do, they do know that
the whole country is expecting the achievements from them and
talking about them every day," Popov told Thursday's Melbourne
Age newspaper.


"Going to bed with these sort of thoughts and extra pressure,
your internal organs will not be able to tolerate this."


Popov, who held the 100m freestyle world record for six years,
believes the 100m final will be won in a time in the low 48
seconds or better.


The current world record is held by Dutchman Pieter van den
Hoogenband with 47.84sec set in the semi-finals of the event at
the 2000 Sydney Olympics.


Popov said any swimmer who had not previously posted a time in
the low 48secs will have no chance in one of the strongest fields
ever assembled at the 12th world championships.


He said South African champion Roland Schoeman's plan to try to
burn off his competition on the first lap was doomed to fail
against van den Hoogenband and world champion Filippo Magnini who
swim a strong second half of their races.


"The key to success of a good 100 metre is the second 50," Popov
said. "It's not the start, it's not the turn, it's the second 50.


"There's only two swimmers in the world these days and that's
Magnini and Pieter van den Hoogenband who can come back in under
25 seconds."


The men's 100m freestyle will be raced on March 29.

