

British singer-songwriter Elton John on Thursday called for the
world to stand up and speak out against homophobia, on the eve of
his 60th birthday.


In an article on human rights published in British weekly
magazine the New Statesman, he wrote that he was privileged to be
able to have his relationship with long-term love, Canadian
filmmaker David Furnish, recognised in law.


"In December 2005, I was legally bound to the man I love. It's my
legal right and my human right. And I wanted everyone to know, I
wanted to shout about it," he said of their civil partnership
ceremony.


"In some countries, my voice would have been drowned out. Maybe
even stamped out. In some European countries the bigots have a
loud voice. Pride marches are banned in some east European
cities.


"Men and women are persecuted and attacked every day all over the
world, just because of who they love and who they make love to."


Elton, who celebrates his 60th birthday on March 25, drew
attention to William Hernandez, a gay rights activist from El
Salvador, whose cause has been taken up by human rights group
Amnesty International.


Hernandez and other members of his Between Friends Association
have received death threats, apparently to stop their work
providing sex education to lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender
people and the wider public.


"People like William are a lot braver than me. When the bigots
shout abuse, they shout back," Elton wrote.


"My voice has served me pretty well over the years; I hope maybe
it can do him some good too. But we need more voices.


"Whether the bigot is in our local pub or a thousand miles away,
we should all stand up and speak out for these basic human
rights."


The flamboyant performer, famous for hits such as "Goodbye,
Yellow Brick Road" and "Rocket Man", was writing for the
magazine's "It Could Have Been Me" column, in which high-profile
British figures highlight Amnesty cases.

