

Australian share prices closed up 1.60 percent Thursday with
investors buoyed by the US Federal Reserve decision to keep US
interest rates steady, dealers said.


The benchmark SP/ASX 200 jumped 93.8 points to 5,955.7 while the
broader All Ordinaries index rose 89.1 points to 5,935.4.


Turnover was 2.01 billion shares worth 6.3 billion dollars (5.1
billion US), with rises outnumbering falls 770 to 472 and 313
stocks unchanged.


The latest gains take the market back to within sight of the
record finish of 6,044.0 points hit on February 26, just one day
before a crash in Shanghai sparked a massive sell-off across the
global markets.


A strong performance overnight in New York after remarks by the
Fed were taken to reflect a softer stance on monetary policy
buoyed sentiment amid speculation that local interest rates could
be headed for another hike shortly.


Leading bank and resource stocks led the market higher, as well
as companies with major operations in the US.


"Closing above the 5,900 mark on the ASX/200 is not a bad
achievement as for the last two days the market has spent time
above that (level) before closing lower," said CMC Markets
equities analyst David Land.


"It was a fairly solid session but I wouldn't be surprised if
there's more volatility as there's still some underlying concern
about the immediate state of play."


He said buying was across sectors with listed property trusts
making gains including Westfield, which was sold off ahead of the
Fed's rate decision.


Westfield, rated the world's largest shopping center owner and
with an extensive portfolio of shopping centers in the US,
climbed 0.63 dollars or 3.10 percent to 20.98 dollars.


US-focused companies James Hardie and Rinker gained on the
prospect that the US interest rate tightening cycle is likely at
an end and that rates will be cut sooner rather than later.


James Hardie climbed 0.18 to 8.39 while Rinker rose 0.12 to
18.13.


Australia's second-largest retailer Coles Group rose on
speculation the company's board will approve a 20 billion dollar-
plus sale Friday, breaking the group into three separate lots in
order to maximize the price after rejecting a private-equity bid
last year.


Coles advanced 0.30 at 15.98.


BHP Billiton rose 0.49 to 29.26 and Rio Tinto advanced 0.91 to
77.01.


National Australia Bank was up 0.61 at 40.73, Commonwealth bank
advanced 0.51 to 50.15, ANZ rose 0.44 to 29.44 and Westpac
climbed 0.43 to 26.25.

