

The wife of Pakistan cricket coach Bob Woolmer has dismissed the
possibility of a conspiracy behind the death of her husband and
rejected suggestions of any match-fixing link.


"I don't see any conspiracy in his death," Gill Woolmer told
India's NDTV television in an interview late on Wednesday.


Her statement came after a Pakistan team official said Woolmer
may have been murdered at the World Cup in Jamaica and as police
said they were treating the death as suspicious.


Woolmer, 58, died in hospital on Sunday after being found
unconscious in his hotel room in Kingston, a day after Pakistan
had been knocked out of the World Cup by Ireland's part-timers.


Gill Woollmer rejected speculation that gamblers were attempting
to silence the Pakistan coach before the publication of his book,
which media reports had said could "blow the lid" on match-
fixing.


"We never got any threats as far as I know," she told NDTV.


"He had nothing to do with the match-fixing controversy and any
such person being involved is highly unlikely," she added.


In 2002, South African captain Hansie Cronje confessed to his
involvement in the largest match-fixing scandal in the sports
history.


Woolmer was South Africa's cricket coach at the time and a friend
of Cronje but there was never any suggestion he knew anything
about the bribes.


Gill Woolmer said her husband was very depressed after Pakistan
lost to Ireland in the World Cup.


"He did mention (in an email) that he was really depressed and
could not believe how this could have happened," she said.


Dismissing reports of a suspected overdose of alcohol, she said
Bob Woolmer was not taking any prescription drugs for diabetes.


"He had Type 2 Diabetes; he was not prescribed any drugs for it.
All those reports about the drinking are also rubbish. He was
taking prescribed anti- inflammatory drugs and that is it," she
said.

