

Procedural problems in the ongoing six-party talks on North
Korea's nuclear programme are more difficult than expected, but
all sides remain committed to Pyongyang's disarmament, China said
Thursday.


"The difficulties for resolving these issues exceed our
expectations, so we still need some time," foreign ministry
spokesman Liu Jianchao told journalists.


"These are technical and procedural problems... all parties
remain committed to the implementation of the joint statement of
February 13."


Liu was referring to North Korea's agreement to shut down its
Yongbyon nuclear power plant and allow in UN nuclear inspectors
by April 15 in exchange for 50,000 tons of fuel oil.


The deal outlined the initial steps toward the eventual shutdown
of all North Korea's nuclear programmes, which is being
negotiated in talks that include China, the two Koreas, the
United States, Japan and Russia.


Liu refused to comment on a decision by North Korean chief
delegate Kim Kye-Gwan to depart Beijing Thursday afternoon.


Kim left after a promised 25 million dollars of funds frozen by
the US failed to appear in a North Korean bank account at the
Bank of China.


Earlier this week, the US said that it had worked to unfreeze the
funds in a Macau bank as part of the disarmament deal.


Liu admitted that part of the problem was that the Bank of China,
a state-owned commercial bank, needed time to process the money
transfer and overcome apparent legal issues involved in the
transfer.


"From a political perspective, the parties concerned have reached
a consensus, but now the issue is technical and procedural," Liu
said.


"All parties have their own reasonable concerns, including the
Bank of China, so we have to consider all the concerns in
accordance with the law."

