

Hong Kong ports-to-telecoms giant Hutchison Whampoa Thursday
reported a 40 percent rise in 2006 net profit, helped by an
improved performance at its loss- making 3G mobile operations.


The company, controlled by tycoon Li Ka-shing, reported a net
profit of 20.03 billion dollars (2.6 billion US) for 2006, up
from 14.34 billion dollars and just shy of analysts estimate of
20.28 billion dollars.


The group's revenue grew 11 percent to 267 billion dollars.


The company's third-generation operation, the 3 Group, reported
narrowing losses due to the continued growth in its customer base
and revenue, with sales up 35 percent to 50.7 billion dollars and
losses cut by 45 percent to just under 20 billion dollars.


Hutchison said its 3G customer base increased 30 percent in the
year and currently stands at over 14.7 million customers
worldwide.


Average revenue per active user was 45.63 euros (61 US dollars)
for 2006, up eight percent from 2005, but competition for new
customers remained strong in all of its markets throughout the
year.


Hutchison said earnings included a revaluation gains of 3.8
billion dollars on investment properties and exceptional gains of
24.4 billion dollars from the sale of a 20 percent stake in its
port assets last year.


The ports and related services division recorded total revenue of
33 billion dollars, up 10 percent, with total throughput growing
15 percent to 59.3 million TEUs (twenty-foot equivalent units).


Property giant Cheung Kong (Holdings), which holds 49.9 percent
of Hutchison Whampoa, posted a net profit of 18.08 billion
dollars compared with 13.995 billion dollars -- also was shy of
analyst forecasts of 18.3 billion dollars.


It reported sales of 15.35 billion dollars, up from 14.36 billion
dollars in 2005.


The company said its earnings were driven mainly by higher
contributions from Hutchison Whampoa and strong property
development income.


Cheung Kong said its share of profit from associate Hutchison
Whampoa rose 40 percent to 10 billion dollars.


Property sales for the year, including those of jointly
controlled entities, rose to 13.80 billion dollars from 12.90
billion dollars, with profit on the segment rising to 5.58
billion dollars from 3.31 billion dollars.


Although there was a slowdown in property activities in the first
half of 2006, it saw a steady pick-up of transactions in the
latter part of the year, a sign of improving market sentiment.


"We anticipate a stable property market in 2007 with moderate
upward pressure on property prices as buyer confidence is
positively impacted by stable lending rates and an optimistic
outlook for Hong Kong's economy," Li said in a statement.


Li said the property market in China continues to be the major
focus of the group's expansion outside Hong Kong, adding that the
long-term growth prospects for the mainland market remain
positive on strong underlying demand.

