

South Korean President Roh Moo-Hyun leaves Saturday for a visit
to Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Qatar aimed at further strengthening
business ties.


Roh will visit Saudi Arabia on March 24-26, go on to Kuwait from
March 26-27 and end his tour in Qatar from March 27-29, his
office said in a statement.


The trip will provide an opportunity to expand partnerships and
cooperation with the three countries in energy resources,
infrastructure construction, the defence industry and information
technology, it said.


An estimated 70 South Korean business leaders will accompany the
president on his tour.


Roh will be the first South Korean head of state to visit Saudi
Arabia in 27 years, while his trip to Qatar will be the first by
a South Korean president.


In his summit with King Abdullah, he will ask Saudi Arabia to
help South Korea secure a stable supply of oil and increase
construction orders in the Middle East.


Roh will also ask the king to help expand Saudi investment in
South Korea's energy industry.


His talks with the Kuwaiti emir, Sheikh Sabah al-Ahmad al-Sabah,
will focus on expanding cooperation in the energy, construction
and IT sectors. Stronger cooperation in security will also be on
the agenda.


In Qatar, Roh will stress energy and shipbuilding cooperation and
seek more investment in his country during his summit with the
emir, Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al-Thani.


He is due to visit the construction site for the Ras Laffan
refinery which a Korean consortium is building, and attend a
Korean construction and IT exhibition and lunch hosted by
business leaders of the two countries.


South Korea, the world's 11th largest economy, imports most of
its energy needs. It is the world's biggest market for Qatar's
liquefied natural gas.


The situation in the Middle East and on the Korean peninsula will
also figure in discussions. South Korea has about 2,300 troops in
Iraq, the third largest foreign contingent after the US and
Britain.

