

The Ugandan government has approved the clearance of thousands of
hectares of protected rainforest for a sugar plantation, a state
newspaper said on Wednesday.


The government is set to seek parliament's permission to clear
around 7,000 of 30,000 hectares in Mabira Forest Reserve, east of
Kampala, before handing it over to Uganda-based Mehta Group for
sugar cane farming, according to state- owned New Vision
newspaper.


Prime Minister Apollo Nsibambi directed Environment Minister Mary
Mutagamba to seek permission from parliament to withdraw the
identified portion of forestland from a list of government-
protected rainforests, it said.


Officials said President Yoweri Museveni was keen on expanding
the country's agricultural and industrial base in a bid to boost
his donor-dependent economy.


"This is the proper way of utilising the resources. It is easier
to relocate the forest by planting trees elsewhere than to
relocate a factory," Museveni's spokesman Tamale Miriundi told
AFP.


But furious conservationists have warned that further
encroachment of the forest would threaten up to 312 tree species,
287 bird species and 199 butterfly species.


"This is going to be a disaster," warned a National Forestry
Authority official who requested anonymity. "The ecosystem will
be disturbed, the biodiversity will be destroyed and people's
livelihoods will change for the worse."


In December, Norwegian environmentalist Olav Bjella quit as NFA
chief after defying Museveni's order to approve the deforestation
of a rainforest on Lake Victoria's Ssesse Island to create a palm
plantation, saying it was against his conscience and the laws of
Uganda.

