

British finance minister Gordon Brown  announced the first cut to
the country's basic rate of income tax in almost a decade as he
delivered his annual budget speech on Wednesday.


Brown, outlining what is widely seen as his final budget before
becoming prime minister later this year, said he would cut the
basic rate of income tax from 22 percent to 20 percent in April
2008.


The Chancellor of the Exchequer, who is expected to succeed Tony
Blair as prime minister later this year, said the switch would
result in "the lowest basic rate for 75 years" in Britain.


The move marked the first cut in income tax since 1999.


While the basic rate is being reduced, Brown said he would
abolish the lowest tax rate of 10 percent, meaning many workers
could be worse off.


The basic rate of income tax is applied on income above about
7,000 pounds (13,650 dollars) and up to 40,000 pounds. Britain's
lowest income tax band of 10 percent, meanwhile, applies to
income between about 5,000 pounds and about 7,000 pounds.


"Reducing the basic rate of income tax from 22 percent to 20
percent will make political headlines, but will be paid for by
removing the 10 percent starting rate of income tax," said
Brendan Barber, general secretary of the Trades Union Congress.


"There will be losers from today's changes," he added.


Rounding off his near hour-long budget speech, the chancellor of
the exchequer told parliament: "We are able to hold to our pledge
not to raise the basic rate of income tax.


"Indeed to reward work, to ensure working families are better off
and to make the tax system fairer, I will from next April cut the
basic rate of income tax from 22 pence to 20 pence (in the
pound)."


Brown added that the point at which people started paying 40
percent income tax -- the top rate -- would rise to 43,000 pounds
from April 2009.


Brown had originally planned to raise the limit to 38,000 pounds.


"Having put in place more focused ways of incentivising work and
directly supporting children and pensioners at a cost of 3.0
billion pounds a year (4.4 billion euros, 5.88 billion dollars),
I can now return income tax to just two rates by removing the 10
pence band on non-savings income," chancellor Brown said.


"I can also announce that the point at which people start paying
top rate income tax will, from April 2009, not be annual income
of 38,000 pounds but 43,000 pounds."


Prime Minister Tony Blair has said he will step down by September
and many commentators predict Brown will replace him in June or
July.

