

Former Croatian general Vladimir Zagorec is to challenge in the
European Court of Human Rights an international arrest warrant
issued by the Croatian authorities, his lawyers said on
Wednesday.


Zagorec's Austrian lawyers Gabriel Lansky and Gerald Ganzger said
the arrest warrant violated Croatian and European legal standards
and was politically motivated.


The former army general was arrested last week in Vienna and then
released on a one-million-euro (1.33-million-dollar) bail. He is
not allowed to leave the country until a Vienna court decides
whether to extradite him, a process that could take months.


Zagorec is accused of having embezzled millions of dollars when
he was in charge of buying military weapons as Croatia's deputy
defence minister between 1993 and 2000.


According to Croatian media reports, Zagorec is alleged to have
stolen five million dollars worth of diamonds. The stones were a
pledge by a German arms dealer in 1993 after Croatia paid him
five million dollars in advance for the purchase of a rocket
system.


But the German dealer has apparently testified he never deposited
any diamonds at the defence ministry, Zagorec's lawyers said.


They also questioned the credibility of the witnesses against
their client, saying one of them was Hrvoje Petrac, a man serving
a six-year prison sentence for kidnapping Zagorec's teenage son
in February 2004.


The allegations against Zagorec emerged during Petrac's trial.
Petrac is also suspected of aiding fugitive Croatian general Ante
Gotovina, who is currently on trial at the UN war crimes tribunal
in The Hague.

