

The banned political wing of the Basque separatist group ETA must
"respect the law to the letter" if it is to stand in May 27
municipal elections, Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez
Zapatero said Wednesday.


Pressed by the main opposition conservative Popular Party over
the status of the Batasuna group, Zapatero told parliament that
the government would guarantee that all candidates "strictly
respect the law to the letter".


Popular Party leader Mariano Rajoy had asked what measures the
ruling Socialists were taking to prevent Batasuna taking part in
the May 27 poll.


"Nobody would understand if a terrorist organisation goes to the
polls," he said.


The government says Batasuna, which the EU and the US State
Department consider a terrorist organisation along with ETA, must
clearly renounce violence before its participation could be
considered.


The Spanish judiciary banned the Batasuna group in March 2003
over its alleged links with ETA but the party has expressed its
hope of fielding candidates in the poll.


Two years ago, because it was absent from the poll, it urged
supporters to back a pro-independence Communist party.


PP Secretary General Angel Acebes accused the government of
trying to find a way to get Batasuna back in the election, paving
the way to a negotiated settlement with ETA itself.


The Basque separatists have been blamed for 819 deaths during
their four-decade regional conflict.


When he came to power, Zapatero favoured face-to-face talks with
ETA, but after an ETA bombing at Madrid airport on December 30
killed two people, he broke off talks with the movement.


The deaths were the first fatalities claimed by the group since
May 2003 and shattered the "permanent ceasefire" ETA had declared
on March 22 last year.


Earlier Wednesday, Spain's high court ordered pro-independence
Basque leader Arnaldo Otegi be arrested and brought before it,
after he failed to turn up at his trial on charges of "glorifying
terrorism."

