

Despite upgrades, security at Canada's 89 major airports remains
dangerously lax and many smaller airstrips take no precautions at
all to stem terrorists, a Senate report warned Wednesday.


Canada spent billions of dollars to boost its airport security
after the September 11, 2001 attacks in the United States, but
achieved only minimal improvements, according to the report.


"They search 2,300 airport workers at the 89 airports on a daily
basis. Well there are 110,000 airport workers, so they searched
two percent of them a day, and we don't understand this," Colin
Kenny, chair of the Standing Senate Committee on National
Security and Defence, told reporters.


"This simply doesn't make sense to us, particularly in light of
the fact we've received testimony from the RCMP (Royal Canadian
Mounted Police) that all of our major airports have organized
crime groups that are active airside."


The committee said responsibility for airport security should be
transferred from Transport Canada to the Department of Public
Safety, citing incompetence by the former.


The senators also recommended hiring 600 to 800 RCMP constables
to patrol airports, less access to restricted areas, more
screening of checked luggage and cargo, thorough background
checks, and bullet-proof cockpit doors.


And they urged closer scrutiny of smaller airfields, pointing to
glaring security lapses in Vancouver and Victoria, where float-
planes land and depart daily from waterfront docks only meters
from major downtown buildings and the British Columbia
legislature.

