

Two British sailors were killed and a third injured in an
accident Wednesday on board a nuclear submarine under the ice cap
in the Arctic Ocean, the Ministry of Defence (MoD) in London
said.


Early indications were that the accident on board HMS Tireless
involved a piece of air purification equipment to the bow (front)
of the submarine, but the vessel was "never in any danger," the
MoD said.


"The MoD can confirm that at (0430 GMT) this morning there was an
accident onboard a Trafalgar Class submarine on exercise in the
Arctic," it said in a statement.


"The submarine, HMS Tireless, was never in any danger, its
nuclear reactor was unaffected, it quickly surfaced and is
completely safe."


The hunter-killer submarine, which was taking part in a joint
exercise with the US Navy, does not carry nuclear missiles.


The MoD said the family of the two crew members had been informed
while the third who was injured was airlifted to a US military
hospital.


His injuries are not thought to be life-threatening and he is
expected to make a full recovery, it added.


"At this early stage, it is thought that the accident involved a
piece of air purification equipment in the forward section of the
submarine," the statement read.


"The ship's company dealt with the incident quickly and
professionally and, as a result, there is only superficial damage
to the forward compartment...


"The crew are trained in surfacing quickly through the ice, and
did so in exemplary fashion."


Air purification equipment is fitted to all Trafalgar Class
submarines, of which Tireless is one of seven in the Royal Navy.


The MoD said the equipment has a 100 per cent safety record to
date, but as a precaution its use on other vessels has been
restricted until safety checks can be carried out.


Tireless, which is based in Devonport, in Plymouth, south-west
England, was launched in 1984, but the piece of air-purification
machinery thought to have failed was fitted as part of an update
in 2001.

