

Pakistan President Pervez Musharraf faces no immediate threat to
his position despite violent protests over the removal of the
country's top judge, a senior US state department official said
Wednesday.


"I don't think it's too much of a question of (Musharraf) being
toppled or serious unrest in country," the official said when
asked whether Washington was concerned that growing protests
could lead to the military ruler's overthrow.


"It doesn't seem that way at the moment. I don't see any signs of
that," said the official, speaking to reporters on condition of
anonymity, as Musharraf came under increasing pressure to quit
over the judicial crisis.


Musharraf, a key US ally in the "war on terror," has faced the
biggest crisis of his eight years in power since ordering the
suspension of Chief Justice Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry on March
9.


Pakistan's Supreme Judicial Council is to hold a hearing into
Musharraf's allegations of misconduct and abuse of office against
Chaudhry starting April 3.


The senior State Department official said it was "hard to render
judgement on the whole proces" until the hearing was held.


"So I guess what we have said is we are concerned, we are
watching carefully, we want them to proceed very carefully. We
will follow this turn by turn as it proceeds," he said.


Chaudhry's removal has sparked violent protests across Pakistan
as well as the resignation of eight judges and a deputy attorney
general.


Opposition supporters have suggested that Musharraf wants to
weaken the judiciary to make it easier to pass potentially
controversial legislation ahead of presidential and parliamentary
elections due later this year.

