

Andy Pick has admitted he will be sorry to leave his post as
Canada coach.


The former Nottinghamshire pace bowler is set to return to
England after the North Americans' final World Cup match, against
New Zealand here Thursday, where he will resume his former role
as coach of the England Under-19 side.


Although he will still be the Canada coach at the four-day
Intercontinental Cup final against Ireland in May, Pick knows his
time in charge of the minnows is coming to an end.


"I'll have five days in Toronto to tidy everything up and then
I'll coach the team in the I-Cup final in May because that's in
England anyway," Pick said.


"I was on a year's sabbatical so I'm going to back to coaching
the England Under-19s and some fast bowling coaching that I was
doing before.


"I'm a little bit sad. They (Canada) offered me a two-year
contract because they got funding for that up to the next (World
Cup) qualifier but from the point of view of my son's education
we'd have wanted to stay on a bit longer and they didn't have any
definite funding for a third year."


Although Canada have lost both their World Cup matches so far (by
seven wickets against Kenya and 51 runs against England) and
cannot now qualify for the Super Eights, Pick said he'd been
pleased by the side's performances.


In their game with Kenya, they scored 199 and against England
finished on a creditable 228 for seven.


Looking ahead to Thursday's match, Pick said:  "Hopefully we can
carry on doing some of the good work we did against England. Keep
the fielding good, keep the batting good - I'd like to get 200
again if we can, at least 200, and that will be three decent
scores we've put on the board.


"I'd also like us to improve the first 10 overs and the last 10
when we bowl, pick up a couple of wickets with the new ball and
not go for so many runs at the end there. But just generally
continue the good work."

