

Britain's HMS Tireless, on board which two sailors were killed in
an accident Wednesday, is one of seven similar submarines
designed for stealth, endurance and flexibility.


They are particularly geared up for wiping out opposing
submarines and providing a deadly advance force in a given area.


Her Majesty's Ship Tireless is the third of the seven Trafalgar-
class SSN (Ship Submersible Nuclear) submarines, based in
Devonport, Plymouth, on the southwest English coast.


It was launched in March 1984 and commissioned in October 1985
and is the second British submarine to bear the Tireless name.
Its motto is "Esto Perpetua" -- "It Goes On".


The nuclear-powered Trafalgar-class submarines are 85.4 metres
long, 9.8 metres wide and 9.5 metres high. Their displacement is
5,200 tonnes when submerged.


They can carry up to 130 people, including 18 officers. They have
five torpedo tubes and can fire Spearfish wire-guided heavyweight
torpedoes and Tomahawk land-attack cruise missiles.


SSNs are sophisticated, deep-diving, high-speed submarines,
capable of fulfilling a range of maritime military tasks.


They are designed for stealth, endurance and flexibility,
allowing them to operate worldwide. SSNs can act independently or
in support of a surface ship task groups and land operations.


It has a strong capability in seeking out and destroying other
submarines. They are also able to detect and attack surface
forces.


SSNs are used to great effect when deployed in advance of
friendly forces to reduce by denying an opposition force the use
of a region.


In an underwater emergency requiring personnel to escape to the
surface, the submarine has two escape compartments, while
watertight doors allow Tireless to split herself into sections if
seawater floods in.

