

An appeals court Wednesday overturned a jury judgment against
Morgan Stanley that would have forced the Wall Street investment
bank to pay billionaire Ronald Perelman 1.58 billion dollars.


In a 2-1 ruling, the state appeals court in Florida reversed the
hefty 2005 jury award against Morgan Stanley related to the
collapse of household products group Sunbeam in 2001.


Judges at the Fourth District Court of Appeal of the State of
Florida ruled that Morgan Stanley should not have to fork out the
cash to Perelman, partly because "no legally cognizable damage
was shown as a result of the alleged fraud."


The bank, which announced bumper first quarter net profits of
2.67 billion dollars Wednesday, could not be reached for
immediate comment.


The legal battle was sparked after Perelman sold his majority
stake in camping gear manufacturer Coleman to Sunbeam for 1.5
billion dollars including stock in 1998.


Morgan Stanley advised Sunbeam on the deal.


Shortly after the deal, it emerged that Sunbeam had artificially
inflated its stock price and engaged in fraudulent accounting.
Sunbeam's stock dived amid the revelations, forcing it into
bankruptcy and wiping out Perelman's stake.


Perelman, who controls the Revlon cosmetics group, then sued
Morgan Stanley alleging the storied investment bank had helped
Sunbeam carry out its fraudulent scheme.


Morgan Stanley had vigorously denied any knowledge of Sunbeam's
accounting practices.


The bank's executives are likely to celebrate the latest court
ruling, especially as it occurred on the same day as Morgan
Stanley unveiled a bumper earnings report to its shareholders.


Perelman according to a list by Forbes magazine has a net worth
of seven billion dollars, making him the 104th richest person in
the world.

