

The European Court of Human Rights ordered Serbia to pay damages
to a HIV positive Serbian woman, for violating her rights after
she was banned from seeing her child, her lawyer said on
Wednesday.


The Strasbourg-based tribunal ruled on March 12 that Serbia pay
15,000 euros (19,700 dollars) in damages and 4,350 euros (5,700
dollars) in court costs to a woman who has been denied access to
her child for eight years, her lawyer Natalija Solic told the
private radio B92.


The woman, whose identity was not revealed, had appealed to the
European tribunal in Strasbourg after a Belgrade district court
failed to rule on her divorce and child custody for more than
eight years.


"The Court found that the domestic authorities, instead of
showing exceptional diligence in expediting the proceedings,
consistently failed to make use of the procedures to oblige the
husband to take part in the procedure," the ruling said.


Solic, who represented the woman before the Strasbourg court,
said her client would however be "fully satisfied" only when a
Serbian district court would finally issue its verdict over the
case "in harmony with Strasbourg ruling".


This was the first verdict by the European Court of Human Rights
ordering the state of Serbia pay damages to a plaintiff, radio
B92 said.


The European Human Rights Court has accepted 46 of 1,915 appeals
by Serbian citizens since 2004, most of them seeking rulings
because of slow moving procedures by local courts.


The justice system in Serbia has been overburdened with
bureaucratic rules, inherited from the former regime of late
strongman Slobodan Milosevic, with trials on private charges
lasting at least two or three years.

