

The US stock market rallied Wednesday after the Federal Reserve
kept its key short-term interest rate anchored at 5.25 percent
and and lifted hopes for an easier monetary policy later this
year.


Investors cheered the announcement, sending the Dow Jones
Industrial Average 159.42 points (1.30 percent) higher to a close
of 12,447.52.


The Nasdaq composite surged 47.71 points (1.98 percent) higher at
2,455.92 while the broad-market Standard and Poor's 500 soared
24.10 points (1.71 percent) to 1,435.04 in the wake of the news.


Analysts said the stock market had gained reassurance from the
Fed's announcement, partly as some Fed watchers observed that the
central bank was now indicating a rate hike was less likely.


"They did downgrade their assessment of the economy but it
doesn't seem like they're too worried about a slowdown," said
Scott Anderson, a senior economist at Wells Fargo.


Wall Street generally likes rate cuts as opposed to rate hikes
which makes it more expensive to borrow cash and finance deals.


The Fed dropped a reference to "firming" or hiking rates in a
statement accompanying the rate decision, substituting it for the
phrase "future policy adjustments" depending on economic
headwinds.


This fueled hopes of a rate cut sometime soon and boosted stocks,
although analysts were divided on the significance of this shift.


The central bank's policymakers also said they believe the
economy is still "likely to continue to expand at a moderate
pace" this year despite rising fears about the housing market and
the health of some mortgage lenders.


The mortgage sector remained in focus a day before Congress holds
a hearing on the industry amid growing concerns about mounting
home foreclosures and how lenders doled out mortgages to people
with poor credit histories.


A senior executive from global banking giant HSBC and officials
from Countrywide Financial and WMC Mortgage are expected to offer
to testimony to lawmakers.


HSBC said last month that it was facing liabilities of over 10
billion dollars on risky mortgage lending in the United States.


HSBC's US-listed shares closed up 1.90 dollars at 87.95 dollars
while Countrywide finished 1.73 dollars higher at 36.95 dollars.


Investment bank Morgan Stanley had a good day, its reported
bumper quarterly earnings as a state appeals court overturned a
1.58 billion dollar judgment against the firm.


Morgan Stanley's shares ended up a hefty 5.22 dollars, or almost
seven percent, at 81.33 dollars after it announced net profits
totalling 2.67 billion dollars for the first quarter, including a
handy 109 million dollar gain from the divestment of a British
brokerage business called Quilter.


Excluding such gains, earnings came in at 2.40 dollars per share,
higher than the 1.88 dollars expected by most analysts.


Separately, a state appeals court in Florida overturned a jury
judgment against Morgan Stanley that would have forced it to pay
billionaire Ronald Perelman 1.58 billion dollars.


In a narrow 2-1 ruling, the state appeals court in Florida
reversed the hefty 2005 jury award against Morgan Stanley related
to the collapse of household products group Sunbeam in 2001.


Meanwhile, cell phone maker Motorola warned after the market
close that its first quarter sales would likely be lower than
previously forecast.


The firm's shares closed down eight cents at 18.74 dollars.


Bond prices rose as the yield on the 10-year US Treasury bond
fell to 4.518 percent from 4.547 percent Tuesday and that on the
30-year bond dropped to 4.696 percent from 4.707 percent.


Bond prices and yields move in opposing directions.

