

The dollar rose slightly against the euro amid cautious trade on
Wednesday ahead of an interest rate call by the US Federal
Reserve.


The euro eased to 1.3301 dollars in late European trade, from
1.3316 dollars late in New York on Tuesday.


The dollar firmed to 117.83 yen from 117.26 yen late on Tuesday.


The Federal Reserve was set to keep interest rates steady at 5.25
percent. It is expected to make its announcement at 1815 GMT on
Wednesday after a two-day meeting.


An analyst at BNP Paribas, Hans Redeker, said the market was
looking for comments from the central bank about the US housing
market.


Last month, a statement from the central bank said that there
were tentative signs of stabilisation in the market, however
recent signs suggest it is weakening again.


"Is the Fed going to say that there is a risk now to the broader
part of the economy from the housing market? That is what the
market will react to," said Redeker.


The market will also be reading the statement closely for clues
on the future direction of monetary policy.


"A no-change rate outcome is basically a done deal and as usual,
it will be all eyes on the statement," said Audrey Childe-
Freeman, economist at the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in
London.


ABN Amro currency analyst Greg Anderson said: "As with recent
meetings, markets will focus on the signals the FOMC gives about
future policy."


He added: "However, we suspect the FOMC will not want to pre-
commit to either a future easing path or a future tightening
path, preferring to leave all doors open with a terse and bland
statement."


The rate has been unchanged since the FOMC halted a string of
increases last August but the panel has warned after each meeting
to date that it could resume rate hikes if inflation kicks up.


The European Central Bank last week hiked eurozone borrowing
costs by a quarter- point to a five-and-a-year high of 3.75
percent, while on Tuesday the Bank of Japan left its benchmark
interest rate on hold at 0.50 percent.


Elsewhere, sterling fell against the dollar after minutes from
the Bank of England's latest policy meeting showed that rate-
setters had voted 8-1 in favour of keeping British borrowing
costs at 5.25 percent in March.


Financial markets in Japan were closed for a public holiday on
Wednesday.


The euro was changing hands at 1.3301 dollars, against 1.3316
dollars on Tuesday, 156.74 yen (156.17), 0.6787 pounds (0.6789)
and 1.6173 Swiss francs (1.6138).


The dollar stood at 117.83 yen (117.26) and 1.2162 Swiss francs
(1.2118).


The pound was being traded at 1.9596 dollars (1.9612).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold was steady at 659
dollars per ounce, from 659 dollars late on Tuesday.

