

Dutch captain Luuk van Troost sees a big gap between the world's
top two teams and the rest, saying some of his team-mates were
left shell-shocked after crushing defeats against the giants.


"Australia and South Africa are far better. There is a gap even
between South Africa and Australia, and India, Pakistan or New
Zealand and England. Some of the guys are left in negative
mindset after we played the top teams," said van Troost.


The Netherlands, thrashed by the top two teams by more than 200
runs in both games, meet Scotland in their last Group A match on
Thursday, a clash seen as "final for the minnows".


Van Troost said he hoped his players could lift themselves
against the Scots, who have also suffered two thrashings.


"It (defeats against top teams) does affect your approach but we
played the number one and two in the world. Now we need to be
very positive, it will be an exciting game and we are very equal
to each other," said van Troost after team practice on Wednesday.


Scotland outlasted the Dutch in the last match played between the
two sides during the World Cricket League in Kenya last month, a
match in which van Troost's side spilled some crucial catches.


"We dropped a few quite difficult ones, so catching has to be
better. Bowling against Australia was far better than against
South Africa so we have some positive things, so what we need to
work on is our batting.


"We need a start up front. Get a good start and I am sure we'll
do well."


Troost said not only big hitter Ryan ten Doechate but others need
to come good against Scotland.


"He (ten Doeschate) is too important, we need other guys to
produce big performances. Not only Ryan. He can get a good ball
first ball, and he's gone. I'd love to see some other guys have
good performances."


Troost refused to accept his team would enter the match as
"underdogs".


"I don't see ourselves as underdogs. We have lost a couple of
times, but third time is our time. I'm very confident."

