

Europe's main stock markets closed higher on Wednesday amid
cautious trading, with attention focused on an interest rate call
by the US Federal Reserve and the British budget.


Analysts said investors had been wary on Wednesday ahead of an
interest rate decision from the US Federal Reserve, despite
forecasts of no change to US borrowing costs.


In London the FTSE 100 index rose 0.59 percent to close at
6,256.80 points, in Frankfurt the Dax added 0.18 percent to end
the day at 6,712.06 but in Paris the CAC 40 index fell a marginal
0.02 percent to 5,502.18.


The DJ Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone blue chip shares fell 0.03
percent to 4,078.29 points.


The euro stood at 1.3305 dollars.


Immediately after the Fed decision, US shares showed gains, with
the Dow Jones Industrial Average up 0.28 percent and the Nasdaq
0.49 percent higher.


London's FTSE 100 won a boost on Thursday from the minutes from
the Bank of England's rate-setting meeting earlier this month and
plans for a cut to personal income and corporation tax contained
in the British budget.


The BoE minutes revealed that policymakers voted 8-1 to keep
British borrowing costs steady at 5.25 percent, the same level as
US interest rates.


Analysts said the findings in the meeting's minutes indicated
that the Bank of England would not move to hike interest rates as
early as April.


Later in the day, British finance minister Gordon Brown said he
would cut the basic rate of income tax to 20 percent from 22
percent from April 2008.


Corporation tax, or taxation on companies profits, would be cut
to 28 percent from 30 percent at the same time.


With Japanese markets shut Wednesday for a public holiday in
Japan, investors in Europe took their lead from Wall Street
overnight.


Elsewhere in Europe, in Milan the SP/Mib gained 0.49 percent to
40,719 points, in Madrid the Ibex-35 fell 0.09 percent to
14,310.5 points, while the AEX index in Amsterdam added 0.53
percent to 500.95 points.


In Brussels, the Bel 20 gained 0.19 percent to 4,382.26 points
while the Swiss SMI index rose 0.67 percent to 8,942.16 points.

