

World Cup surprise package Ireland are ready to cause another
upset at the tournament by beating England should they meet in
the Super Eight stage on March 30, their chief executive Warren
Deutrom said Wednesday.


Deutrom told Sky News they would not be approaching the match in
an arrogant state of mind but deserved to be confident based on
their recent form, which peaked with a stunning victory over
former world champions Pakistan last Saturday.


Pakistan's defeat of Zimbabwe on Wednesday confirmed Ireland's
progress to the Super Eight stage.


"I will come out with a big sporting cliche for when we meet
England on March 30 but we will be taking each match as it
comes," said Deutrom.


"However, we played them in our inaugural ODI last year and put
up around 270 runs and so we can apporoach it with a certain
amount of confidence if not arrogance.


"However our recent run of form has been excellent.


"We came very close against South Africa in a warm-up match, so
there has been nothing freakish or lucky about what we have been
doing.


"They have been playing to their utmost abilities and are a tight
knit unit."


Deutrom admitted that he could not have hoped for anything better
during his brief spell in the post.


"It's fair to say we are in dreamland.


"I joined four months ago and had a brief to raise the profile
and review the administration, and success in the World Cup has
accelerated it (the profile).


"It is the big story in town. I have done a huge amount of
interviews and with the profile having been raised I hope it will
bring more attention from fans and commercial sponsors and
therefore improve the infrastructure."


For the Ireland v England clash to be a certainty the English
need to beat last time semi-finalists Kenya in a do or die clash
on Saturday.


The Irish play their final group match against hosts West Indies
on Friday with the winners of that assured of taking two points
into the Super Eight stage.

