

Chinese artworks and ceramics have been setting record prices at
auction in New York this week, with works by contemporary artists
providing the excitement on Wednesday.


"Bloodline: Three Comrades," a work by Zhang Xiaogang, considered
one of China's top figurative artists, went for 2.1 million
dollars, just over the upper estimate at an auction at Sotheby's.


The piece, painted in 1994, depicts three people wearing Red
Guard armbands and was among several works by the artist on sale.


"Goldfish," by Yue Minjun, described as a work of the cynical
realism movement of the early 1990s, reached 1.3 million dollars,
almost double the upper estimate of 700,000 dollars.


A large, square oil on canvas by Leng Jun titled "Five Pointed
Star," depicting a wrinkled, aged and battered star, even further
outshone expectations, fetching 1.2 million dollars, nearly
triple its upper estimate.


The sales come amid rising interest in contemporary Chinese art,
which, according to Henry Howard-Sneyd, deputy chairman of
Sotheby's Asia and Europe, saw something of a watershed last
year.


"2006 was a defining year for Chinese contemporary art in the
international arena, characterized by unprecedented recognition
of the field in both the East and the West," he said in a
statement.


On Tuesday, an extended bidding battle for a rare bronze wine
vessel from the 13th to 11th century BC was bought by an English
museum for more than eight million dollars at Sotheby's -- more
than double its upper estimate and setting a record for a Chinese
piece handled by the auction house.


A large limestone chimera, meanwhile, went for 5.4 million
dollars, setting a record for a Chinese stone sculpture at
auction.

