

A rocket developed by private satellite carrier SpaceX has been
successfully launched from an island in the South Pacific,
possibly paving the way for a new era of low-cost space-flight.


The Falcon 1 rocket took off from a launch pad at the US
Kwajalein military base at around 6:10 pm in the Marshall Islands
on Tuesday, nearly one year after an unsuccessful earlier launch,
Space Exploration Technologies (Space X) said.


SpaceX's chief executive, Elon Musk, the millionaire entrepreneur
best known for founding Internet giant PayPal, said the launch of
the 21-meter two-stage rocket had been "95 percent" successful.


"The launch was not perfect, but certainly pretty good," said
Musk, hailing the lift-off as a "big leap forward for commercial
space flight."


Two more Falcon rockets were expected to be launched later this
year, he added. Musk said Tuesday's flight had flown far beyond
the edge of space, reaching an altitude of around 200 miles.


A slight "roll" problem was fixable, he said, adding that the
flight had provided important data ahead of the company's first
satellite launches.


Tuesday's launch was financed by the Defense Advanced Research
Projects Agency (DARPA). SpaceX has signed at least nine
contracts to launch satellites worth 200 million dollars.


A single launch of the Falcon 1 is estimated to cost around 6.7
million dollars, nearly one third the cost of commercial
satellite launches.


A first attempt to launch Falcon 1 in March last year ended in
flames when the rocket exploded about one minute into the flight.
The Falcon is the world's first privately funded and developed
liquid-fueled rocket.

