

UN emergency relief coordinator John Holmes arrived in Khartoum
on Wednesday for a week-long visit, his first since taking up the
post on March 1, Sudanese officials said.


The British diplomat, who succeeded Jan Egeland of Norway, is
expected to meet senior officials before going to Juba in
southern Sudan, said Sirajeddine Hamed, head of the foreign
ministry's peace and humanitarian affairs department.


Holmes then plans to travel the strife-torn western region of
Darfur, where a four-year civil war has killed more than 200,000
people according to UN figures, although some sources say the
toll is much higher.


In a report published this month, the United Nations Office for
the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) said that on
January 1, the number of people internally displaced by the
conflict had topped two million.


On Wednesday, the United Nations Mission in Sudan (UNMIS) warned
that camps for internally displaced persons were nearing maximum
capacity, with 3,000 people uprooted in February alone.


"We simply cannot absorb any more displaced," said UNICEF country
representative Ted Chaiban, after a visit to Darfur.


The United Nations and non-governmental organisations have
systematically complained of difficult working conditions in
Darfur, blaming both Sudanese troops and rebel groups for the
violence.


Holmes' trip comes amid strong international pressure, mainly
from the United States, to get Sudan to accept UN troops in
Darfur, a proposal Khartoum has consistently rejected.


Foreign ministry spokesman Ali Sadek, reiterated on Wednesday
Khartoum's position to "defend its sovereignty," and said Sudan
would not bow to the US threat of sanctions.


The United States "as a world power should use diplomacy to
establish security in the world," Sadek was quoted by the
official SUNA agency, adding that "Sudan is open to dialogue over
the Darfur crisis."

