

A public inquiry into allegations that Canada was complicit in
the wrongful jailing and torture of three Canadians in Syria and
Egypt began here Wednesday.


The probe, led by retired Supreme Court judge Frank Iacobucci,
will try to determine if the trio was mistreated abroad and
whether Canadian authorities shared intelligence with their
counterparts in these countries, as alleged.


Ahmad El Maati, Abdullah Almalki and Muayyed Nureddin, born in
Kuwait, Syria and Iraq, respectively, were arrested by Syrian
Military Intelligence during trips abroad from 2001 to 2004,
suspected of Al-Qaeda links.


El Maati said he was later transferred to Egyptian custody.


Each claimed upon return to Canada that he had been tortured
while in custody and that Canadian security officials had
supplied their captors with intelligence and questions to pose
the detainees.


"The Canadian government degraded and dehumanized me," Almalki
said in October.


"I do not think that having to endure over 1,000 lashes over one
night while being interrogated is just. I do not think to be
stuffed in a tire and beaten for a whole morning with an electric
cable is something that I could describe."


"Someone has to answer for the over 22 months I spent in a jail
for no reason. Someone has to be held accountable for
continuously feeding unreliable information that kept me in an
underground solitary confinement cell for 482 consecutive days, a
cell that felt, smelled and looked like a grave," he said.


Amnesty International Canada, a local civil liberties association
and others backed the three men's request for an inquest, saying
it was "vital" to clear their names and restore confidence in
Canada's security agencies.


The public inquiry is expected to first hear from government
attorneys, and lawyers for the three men.

