

Britain's Imperial Tobacco urged the management of Franco-Spanish
cigarette maker Altadis on Wednesday to back its takeover bid for
the company.


Imperial offered 11.5 billion euros (15.2 billion dollars) for
Altadis last week but the takeover was unanimously rejected.
Altadis said that the 45-euros-per- share approach undervalued
the company and its prospects.


"We look forward to progressing further friendly dialogue, with a
view to obtaining a recommendation," Imperial Tobacco chief
executive Gareth Davis told analysts at a trading briefing in
London.


He refused to be drawn on whether the company was considering
launching a hostile bid by taking the offer straight to Altadis
shareholders without a recommendation.


Imperial made its offer last Thursday, but the Spanish business
media has reported that Altadis has opened negotiations with the
world's leading cigarette maker, Philip Morris, for a joint
counter bid for Imperial.


Furthermore, the Spanish business daily El Economista reported
that if Philip Morris was not interested, Altadis would approach
British rival BAT to help it buy Imperial.


The move by Imperial comes amid consolidation in the industry as
anti-tobacco legislation begins to bite and tobacco companies
look to new markets for growth.


Altadis, which owns the Gauloises and Fortuna brands and has a
significant cigar business, counts France and Spain as its main
markets.


Imperial, meanwhile, produces Lambert and Butler cigarettes and
is very strong in its domestic market and Germany.

