

Romanian President Traian Basescu violated the country's
constitution, a parliamentary inquiry commission concluded in a
report published Wednesday, bolstering an opposition motion to
impeach him.


"Traian Basescu has violated Romania's constitution and Traian
Basescu is implicated in penal violations," the head of the
commission and leader of the opposition Conservative Party, Dan
Voiculescu, said.


The commission was set up on February 28 to "find additional
arguments" to support a motion filed by the opposition two weeks
earlier to impeach Basescu.


Following three weeks of hearings with politicians, including
ministers and intelligence chiefs, the commission found that
Basescu had committed "19 serious violations of the
constitution," commission vice-president Florin Iordache told a
press conference.


In its report, the commission accused the president of showing a
"partisan attitude and abandoning his role as a political
mediator," as well as of "contributing to creating an atmosphere
of political instability."


The report also concluded that Basescu had been unjustified in
refusing to appoint ministers proposed by the prime minister.


The commission submitted its report to Romania's Constitutional
Court, which has an advisory role, and is expecting a reply
within 20 days.


The motion to impeach the president, taking into account the
investigation commission's conclusions, can now be submitted to
parliament, where it will need 50 percent of votes plus one from
the 468 deputies and senators if it is to be adopted.


If approved, a referendum will then have to be held within 30
days. But Basescu's popularity remains high and analysts predict
the opposition would lose a referendum.

