

The UN Security Council on Wednesday agreed to meet again
Thursday to debate a new Iran sanctions draft resolution after
the sponsors said they would study amendments presented by three
countries.


France's UN Ambassador Jean-Marc de La Sabliere said after
closed-door consultations of the 15-member Council that the
draft, which toughened UN sanctions already imposed on Iran in
December, had "strong support" among members.


But he added that the co-sponsors were willing to incorporate
some of the amendments put forward by South Africa, Qatar and
Indonesia as they "could give clarity to the text and improve
(it)."


But a South African proposal for a 90-day suspension of UN
sanctions to allow political negotiations with Tehran was
rejected out of hand.


De La Sabliere said the proposal was "not consistent with the
text, the Security Council aproach, which is an incremental
approach based on the idea that more pressure on Iran is needed."


He said the co-sponsors would consult with their capitals
overnight and produce an amended text Thursday ahead of
consultations of the council in the afternoon.


The draft agreed by six major powers -- Britain, China, France,
Germany, Russia and the United States -- would ban Tehran from
exporting arms, calls for voluntary trade sanctions and expands a
list of officials and companies targeted for financial and travel
restrictions.


Qatar and Indonesia have both proposed including in the draft a
paragraph recalling the goal of a "Middle East free from weapons
of mass destruction and all missiles for their delivery."


South Africa, for its part, suggested deleting the weapons ban
and many financial sanctions which, if accepted, Western
diplomats said, would gut much of the draft.

