

Sao Paulo state prosecutors on Wednesday denounced what they
called degrading working conditions at facilities where ethanol
is made.


Brazil is a global pioneer in the alternative fuel.


In a report on five plants in the Marilia region of the state,
labor prosecutors found that 40 percent of sugar cane cutters
were victims of bad treatment.


The report found that 400 employees out of 1,000 worked in direct
sun during the hottest hours of the day with no water, nowhere to
eat or bathe, and no safety equipment.


"Of course everything depends on what is deemed degrading, but
for us, yes, these are degrading working conditions for the
employees," said labor law prosecutor Edmundo Jose de Oliveira
Neto.


A University of Sao Paulo study separately found that ethanol
facility workers toiled an average of 12 hours a day for less
than 200 dollars a month.


Brazil in 2006 produced about 17.7 billion liters of ethanol made
from sugar cane -- about 35 percent of the world's total. Sao
Paulo state has 60 percent of Brazil's plants that make ethanol.


Brazil and the United States on March 9 inked a strategic
alliance to promote biofuels, declaring the step important for
the environment and global security.


Brasilia and Washington want to standardize the definition of
ethanol so it can be traded on global markets, the same way oil
is traded.


Brazil produces ethanol from sugarcane, while the United States
uses corn, and together, they account for 70 percent of the
fuel's production.


More than four out five new cars in Brazil can run on ethanol,
either mixed with gasoline or pure.


Brazil's state oil giant Petrobras said ethanol production can be
expanded 15 times over five years, without further destruction of
the Amazon or harming food production.


Investment in biofuels production meanwhile is soaring, with
Brazil's sugarcane industry plowing money into distilleries.

