

The family of a Lithuanian woman who spent five years in a Soviet
prison camp is suing Moscow for 500,000 euros (665,000 dollars)
in damages, the Baltic News Service (BNS) reported Wednesday.


In a complaint filed in a Lithuanian district court, the family
alleges that the late Ona Puskunigiene suffered human rights
abuses during the five years she spent in a Gulag in Siberia, and
emotional harm in the 20 years following her release until her
death in 1976, BNS said.


Puskunigiene's relatives allege in the lawsuit that they also
suffered because of her incarceration in 1951 on charges of
"anti-Soviet activity".


Their suit seeks damages for the years of persecution they allege
they endured at the hands of Lithuania's Soviet occupiers, saying
they were closely watched by the KGB until 1989.


Puskunigiene was sentenced to 25 years in a Gulag but was
released five years later under an amnesty granted after the
death of Joseph Stalin.


She was among hundreds of thousands of Lithuanians, Latvians and
Estonians who were deported to Siberia and other remote regions
of the Soviet Union during two Soviet occupations of the Baltic
states.


The first occupation began in 1940 and lasted around a year, when
the Soviets were chased out by Nazi Germany.


The Baltic states were then reoccupied at the end of World War II
by the Soviets, and were forcibly incorporated into the USSR
until 1991.


Lithuania's Supreme Court ruled in 2002 that Puskunigiene had
been a victim of Soviet oppression and that her sentence was
illegal.

