

The following are the principal points outlined by British
finance minister Gordon Brown in his 11th, and probably last
annual budget before succeeding Tony Blair as prime minister:


TAXATION


-- Basic rate of income tax, applied on income above about 7,000
pounds and up to 40,000 pounds, cut to 20 percent from 22 percent
from April 2008.


-- Britain's lowest income tax band of 10 percent, applied on
income above about 5,000 pounds and up to about 7,000 pounds, to
be scrapped from April 2008.


-- Point at which employees pay highest income tax rate of 40
percent increased to 43,000 pounds (63,000 euros, 84,000 dollars)
from April 2009.


-- Corporation tax, or taxation on companies profits, cut to 28
percent from 30 percent from April 2008.


GROWTH


-- Brown's growth forecasts left unchanged. Chancellor of the
Exchequer Brown predicted gross domestic product growth of
2.5-3.0 percent in 2008 and 2009, from a forecast of 2.75-3.25
percent growth in 2007.


INFLATION


-- Brown told parliament that the annual rate of British
inflation would fall towards 2.0 percent this year -- the Labour
government's target -- and would remain "on target" in 2008 and
2009.


PUBLIC SPENDING


-- Borrowing projection cut for the current fiscal year by 1.0
billion pounds to 34 billion in 2007/8.


ENVIRONMENT


-- New zero-carbon homes costing up to 500,000 pounds exempt from
stamp duty, or purchase tax.


-- Road tax on the highest polluting cars to be hiked by 30
percent to 300 pounds per year.


DEFENCE/SECURITY


-- Brown announced a 400-million-pound boost for the armed forces
and an extra 86 million pounds into counter-terrorism for the
intelligence and security services.

