

German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier on Wednesday
urged Washington and Moscow to discuss US plans to erect a
missile defence shield in Eastern Europe which have angered
Russia.


Steinmeier told parliament that the two Cold War-era enemies
needed "time and open discussions" to build trust.


"Merely trying to have the upper hand militarily, will create
neither friendship nor peace," he added.


Steinmeier urged Washington to think about the consequences of
building the shield to protect Europe from potential attacks by
Iran before the Islamic republic had acquired long distance
missiles that can strike Europe.


The minister's spokesman has suggested that such a step could
lead to "escalation" on the part of Iran.


Steinmeier told German MPs that Europe did not need a new Cold
War, even if it were fought with words only.


The foreign minister, whose country holds the EU presidency,
warned at the weekend that the continent should not become the
scene of a new arms race.


Germany has made clear that it is concerned about the row that
has broken out between Russia and the United States over the
Pentagon's plans to place parts of the missile shield in Poland
and the Czech Republic.


Russia sees this an act of intimidation and President Vladimir
Putin has vowed that his country will come up with a "highly
effective" response to the US plans.


German Chancellor Angela Merkel has called for the US, Poland and
the Czech Republic to discuss the issue with their NATO partners.


But a spokesman for NATO signalled that the alliance will not get
involved in bi-lateral agreements between the US and the nations
hosting the missile defence equipment.

