

Inzamam-ul-Haq broke down in tears after he was dismissed for 37
in the World Cup match against Zimbabwe here on Wednesday, his
last appearance as national team captain.


Inzamam, who is playing in his final one-day international,
sobbed as he made his way off the Sabina Park pitch.


He was congratulated by the entire Zimbabwe team who all rushed
over to shake his hand while his own teammates formed a guard of
honour to see him back into the pavilion.


The 37-year-old Inzamam raised his bat to the sparse crowd,
removed his cap and tearfully acknowledged the warm applause
after he was caught at long-on by Sean Williams off seamer
Tawanda Mupariwa in the 28th over of the Group D match.


Inzamam had been attempting to launch another huge six having
already smashed three over the ropes.


He finishes his 378-match one-day career with 11,739 runs to his
name, 10 centuries and 83 fifties, at an average of almost 40
runs a game.


Pakistan, who can't qualify for the next round after losing both
their opening games, have endured a tragedy-hit World Cup with
the death of coach Bob Woolmer.


Police in Jamaica have confirmed that the death of the 58-year-
old is being treated as suspicious.


"We will try to play to a high level, win the game and honour
Bob," said Inzamam at the start of the game.


"We have a good team but we have not been able to qualify for the
next round."


Zimbabwe batsman Stuart Matsikenyeri said that all teams at the
tournament were struggling to come to terms with the announcement
of the criminal investigation into Woolmer's death.


"It's a very sad day. Bob Woolmer had a huge influence on world
cricket. But we have something to aim for and that is what we'll
be doing. We will play as hard as we can."


Inside an eerily empty stadium, fans showed off posters dedicated
to Woolmer.


'Bob, rest in peace' said one; 'Do it for Bob' pleaded another.

