

Overseas Shipholding Group Inc. pleaded guilty in a federal court
Wednesday and was sentenced in a 37-million-dollar plea
agreement, the largest yet involving deliberate vessel pollution,
the Justice Department said.


The case was brought to the attention of authorities by
whistleblowers in the New York-based international firm's
workforce.


OSG was ordered to pay 27 million dollars for violations in
Boston, Massachusetts; Portland, Maine; Los Angeles; San
Francisco; and Wilmington, North Carolina, the Justice Department
said.


The charges stemmed from 12 OSG oil tankers during the period of
June 2001 to March 2006. They include violations of the Clean
Water Act as amended by the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, the Act to
Prevent Pollution from Ships, conspiracy, false statements, and
obstruction of justice.


Among the whistleblowers was one who kept a secret journal on the
violations, noting that "the ship's chief engineer was a habitual
criminal of illegal sludge discharge to sea" and that 40,600
gallons (184,570 liters) of sludge was discharged overboard,
authorities said.


US District Judge Reginald Lindsay said in Boston: "There should
be no tolerance for those who deliberately despoil the
environment."


The company also was sentenced to serve a three-year term of
probation "during which it must implement and follow a stringent
environmental compliance program that includes a court-appointed
monitor and outside independent auditing of OSG ships trading
worldwide," they said in a statement.


In January, OSG pleaded guilty to additional charges in Beaumont,
Texas, and was awaiting sentencing in that case for which it has
agreed to pay another 10 million dollars.


Twelve current and former OSG crew members were awarded 437,500
dollars each for their role in alerting authorities to the
illegal conduct.

