

The head of French oil company Total, who was detained by police
early on Wednesday as part of a corruption probe, remains in
custody and could spend the night at a police station, a source
close to the case told AFP.


Christophe de Margerie was being held in a special financial
police station in southeast Paris after being held for
questioning over suspected corruption by the multinational oil
giant in Iran.


The source said he was still in custody at 1800 GMT and might
spend the night at the station.


Under French law, the financial judge in charge of the corruption
probe is able to ask for Margerie to be held for an additional 24
hours counting from Thursday morning.


The investigation centres on suspicions that Total paid nearly
100 million Swiss francs (60 million euros, 80 million dollars),
traced through two accounts in Switzerland, to win a contract in
Iran, a source close to the matter told AFP earlier Wednesday.


A Total spokesman acknowledged that three executives from the
company faced questioning "in connection with a judicial enquiry"
opened in December 2006 concerning "a South Pars industrial
project in Iran, signed by Total in 1997 with the Iranian
national oil company NIOC."


Total was "completely behind its executives and confirms that the
agreements signed respected the law," the spokesman added.


He named the other executives as finance director Robert
Castaigne and the head of gas activities Philippe Boisseau.


Two former Total executives -- Michel Naylies and Patrick Rambaud
-- were also being detained at the same police station as the
others, a source told AFP.

