

The Eritrean government expelled the head of UN demining
operations on its border with Ethiopia in the latest in a series
of bans it has imposed on the world body's mission, the UN said
on Wednesday.


The UN Mission in Eritrea and Ethiopia (UNMEE) said Asmara sent a
letter requesting that South African David Bax leave the country
for alleged "repeated violations of Eritrean laws and regulations
by UNMEE-MACC (Mine Action Coordination Centre)."


"UNMEE does not agree with this decision or the rationale given,
but has complied with the expulsion order and Mr. Bax has already
left Eritrea," the UN said in a statement.


Bax, who heads the mission's demining wing, left Eritrea by the
deadline of March 20, it added.


There was no immediate reaction from Asmara, which has
increasingly slapped restrictions on patrols by UNMEE on its
territory and expelled all of its European and North American
staff.


Eritrea has refused to rescind them under the threat of UN
sanctions, forcing the Secrity Council to reduce the number of
its peacekeepers from the current 2,300 to 1,700, including 230
military observers.


Eritrea and Ethiopia last year rejected plans by an independent
panel, the Eritrea Ethiopia Boundary Commission, to demarcate
their frontier on paper.


The stalemate has left the status of the 1,000-kilometer
(620-mile) border with southern arch-rival Ethiopia unclear more
than six years after a peace deal was signed.


When a border war between both countries ended in December 2000,
they pledged they would implement any frontier decision by the
UN-appointed panel.


Eritrea accepts the panel's current plan, which awarded it the
flashpoint town of Badme, and wants it to be physically laid out.
Ethiopia, which rejects the boundary, says the commission was
acting outside its mandate.

