

Croatia on Wednesday asked Austria to extradite a former general
sought here on corruption charges in relation to weapons
purchases during and after the country's 1991-1995 war.


The Croatian justice ministry said it had sought the extradition
from Austria of Vladimir Zagorec, who is wanted by Zagreb for
allegedly siphoning off millions of dollars intended for the
country's defence forces.


Zagorec was detained in Vienna last week under an international
arrest warrant issued by Croatia earlier this month. He was
released soon after on bail of one million euros (1.33 million
dollars).


Croatian media reported that he was opposed to being extradited
to his homeland on the grounds that the charges against him were
"politically motivated."


Under bail rules, Zagorec, who has been living with his family in
Vienna, may not leave the country until the approval of his
extradition, a process that could take months. His passport has
also been confiscated.


Zagorec is reportedly facing charges for stealing five million
dollars' worth of diamonds. The stones were a pledge by a German
arms dealer in 1993 after Croatia paid him five million dollars
in advance for the purchase of a rocket system.


The case is being closely followed in Croatia as it strives to
uncover similar embezzlement cases.


Croatian authorities recently said they would bring to justice
wartime profiteers who misused donations by Croatians which were
intended for the country's defence.


During the bloody breakup of Yugoslavia in the early 1990s,
Croatia and other former republics were under an international
arms embargo which forced them to fund any weapons purchases
through offshore bank accounts.

