

An angry mob of Muslim students in northern Nigeria beat their
teacher to death on Wednesday for allegedly desecrating the
Koran, police and witnesses said.


Oluwatoyin Olushekan was attacked and killed by the mob in Gandu
Secondary School in Tudun Wada district of northern Gombe State.


Her attackers accused her of tearing a portion of the Koran she
seized from a female student during an examination.


Bashir Dikko, Gombe State police spokesman told AFP: "There was
an incident today (Wednesday) at Gandu Secondary School in the
metropolis in which a teacher was lynched by some students who
also burnt her car and set three blocks of classrooms ablaze".


"The school principal, who is a Muslim sustained minor injuries
as he was also beaten by the students when he tried to shield the
woman from her assailants", Dikko said.


"We are still investigating the cause of the incident and we have
embarked on a 24-hour patrol, especially around the Tudun Wada
area to ensure the maintenance of law and order", the spokesman
said.


Dikko said eight people have been arrested over the killing and
the state government has ordered the closure of all secondary
schools in the metropolis to prevent the spread of the violence.


A neighbour of Olushekan, a nursing mother, described what
happened.


"From what we learnt from the staff in the school, she was
invigilating an examination on Islamic studies when she caught a
female student engaged in a malpractice and seized the paper she
was copying from and tore it", Badamasi Aliyu said on the
telephone from Gombe.


"A student who was standing by the window shouted 'Allahu Akbar'
(God is Great), telling other students that she had desecrated
the Koran and this led to the attack that caused her death.


"It was a cold-blooded murder", Aliyu said.

