

The Bush administration has decided to slash a proposed aid
package to build up security forces loyal to Palestinian
president Mahmud Abbas from 86 million dollars to around 50
million, a senior US official said Wednesday.


The move comes after Abbas agreed to join a power-sharing
government led by the radical Islamic movement Hamas, a step
which has heightens concerns about the possible use of US
security assistance, the official said.


President George W. Bush asked Congress in January to approve the
86 million dollars package to cover training and equipment for
the Abbas forces at a time when they were locked in a sometimes
violent power struggle with Hamas, which Washington considers a
terrorist group.


But the request was blocked by lawmakers worried the money could
end up funding Hamas-controlled elements of a new Palestinian
unity government.


Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice on Wednesday told Congress
the administration would soon submit a revised proposal for a
lower amount of assistance to the security forces loyal to Abbas
and his moderate Fatah party, but she did not provide further
details.


A senior State Department official said later that the revised
proposal would be "on the order of 50 million" dollars.


The aid will cover "non-lethal" assistance like training,
vehicles and other equipment to Abbas' presidential guard, the
official said on condition of anonymity.


The official said the new proposal would be sent to Congress in
the coming days. Rice is scheduled to travel to the Middle East
for talks with Israeli and Palestinian leaders on Friday.


The funds cut from the package would have gone to a Palestinian
"national" security force, but it was determined there were not
sufficient controls and guarantees about how that money would be
spent, the official said.

