

Spanish police detained pro-independence Basque leader Arnaldo
Otegi on Wednesday after he failed to turn up at his trial on
charges of "glorifying terrorism".


Civil guard officers arrested Otegi late afternoon at his home in
the Basque town of Elgoibar. He was later set to be transferred
to Madrid by air, as heavy snowfall in the north of the country
made a road transfer treacherous.


Otegi, who is the spokesman of Batasuna, the banned political
wing of the Basque separatist group ETA, is embroiled in a series
of legal cases related to his activities with the political party
which was banned in 2003 over its links with ETA.


The prosecution has called for a jail term of 15 months for
Otegi, who is accused of paying public homage in 2001 to ETA
member Olaia Castresana, who died while handling an explosive
device.


In November 2005, Otegi was handed a one-year term for calling
King Juan Carlos "chief torturer" of the Basques but avoided jail
as all sentences under two years in Spain are suspended.


He is also appealing against another 15-month sentence handed
down last year for paying tribute to another ETA member, Jose
Miguel Benalaran, which would have seen him jailed.


The supreme court will hear that appeal after municipal elections
on May 27 in which Batasuna is hoping to stand.


The government has insisted it must condemn separatist violence
before taking part in the vote. Violence has cost 819 lives since
1968 as ETA strives for independence for the northern Basque
region.


On Tuesday, Otegi said it would be "an error" to pursue
independence through violence and added he was for achieving the
goal through "democratic means" but did not condemn ETA violence.


Thursday will mark a year since ETA declared a "permanent
ceasefire," which was shattered by a truck bomb blast on December
30 which killed two men at Madrid airport.

