

Britain said Wednesday that the Croatian government had two weeks
to appeal a British court ruling allowing a convicted war
criminal wanted in Croatia to stay in Britain.


The Home Office made the statement after Milan Spanovic, who has
been sentenced in Croatia to 20 years in prison for war crimes,
was granted the right to stay in Britain by a London court
Tuesday.


"There are 14 days in which Croatia may seek to appeal the
decision," a Home Office spokeswoman said.


"As it is possible the case will come back before the courts we
cannot comment further."


Spanovic, a Croatian Serb, was convicted by a Croatian court in
his absence in 1994. But after arriving in Britain four years
later, he was granted indefinite leave to remain in the country
in 2004.


The Zagreb government has since sought his extradition, accusing
him in an extradition warrant of torturing and firing on
civilians, looting homes and torching public and religious
buildings in the Croatian village of Maja in August 1991.


On Tuesday, a judge at the City of Westminster Magistrates' Court
in central London ruled that it would be "unjust and oppressive"
to extradite Spanovic, the Daily Telegraph reported.


"Witnesses' memories after such a lengthy period during which
radical change took place will have faded or be inaccurate," the
paper quoted Judge Timothy Workman as saying.


"The delay in this case is almost 16 years. I accept that for
five or six of those years, the country was in the turmoil of
civil war.


"I am satisfied that the passage of time since the offence is
alleged to have been committed would now make it unjust and
oppressive to extradite the defendant and he is therefore
discharged."


Lawyers for the Croatian government are set to appeal, the
Telegraph added.


Croatia's proclamation of independence from the former Yugoslavia
sparked the 1991-1995 war with Serb rebels who opposed the move.

