

A top US lawmaker on Wednesday said Washington should rethink its
financial support for Colombia's fight against drug-trafficking,
which he said has yielded few dividends thus far.


"We have spent over four billion dollars since 1999 to stem the
flow of illegal drugs into our country and aid the Colombians in
their fight against home-grown terrorists," said Representative
Ike Skelton, chairman of the House Armed Services Committee.


"But, according to the latest figures from the Justice
Department, the supply and purity of illicit narcotics on our
streets has not changed much in the last several years," the
Democratic lawmaker said during a hearing of top US military
commanders from around the globe.


Skelton said the George W. Bush administration also should be
troubled by a raging scandal linking some of Colombia's top
officials with the country's violent paramilitary movement.


"The administration of President (Alvaro) Uribe ... is currently
embroiled in a criminal investigation into a seemingly widespread
conspiracy between high- ranking government officials and leaders
of the terrorist paramilitaries," Skelton said.


"I fear that this scandal and the underlying unholy alliance, if
proven to be true, will severely undermine the ability of the
Colombians to assume greater responsibility for combating
narcotics trafficking and taking the fight to the terrorists --
both of which may place a larger strain on our American forces
during this time of war," he said.


Last week, President George W. Bush, during a during a goodwill
visit to Colombia, called the turmoil-torn country an important
US "strategic partner" in the America's battle against illegal
drug-trafficking.


The United States spends some 700-million dollars each year to
help Colombia combat both the drug trade and its decades-old
insurgency.

