

Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao called for steps to prevent fast
growth from leading to an overheated economy, the government said
Thursday, as first quarter GDP increased by 11.1 percent.


"We must ... prevent the economy from changing from rather fast
paced (growth) to overheated, while also avoiding large ups and
downs," the government quoted Wen as telling a Wednesday cabinet
meeting.


We must "make efforts to realize the good and fast development of
the national economy," he said in comments posted on the
government's website Thursday.


The remarks came after an announcement that the nation's economy
grew a blistering 11.1 percent in the first quarter, prompting
fears of possible overheating and a call for fresh measures to
put the country on a more sustainable course.


Wen further called for measures to rein in excessively fast
growth in the nation's trade surplus, saying steps should be
taken to reduce "unreasonable" preferential policies for the
export sector.


China's trade surplus totalled 46.4 billion dollars in the first
three months of the year, about double the figure in the same
period of last year.


Earlier Thursday, the National Bureau of Statistics said that the
first three months of 2007 showed the fastest growth rate since
the second quarter of last year, when the economy expanded 11.5
percent.


"If the fast growth continues for a certain period, there is a
risk of shifting from fast growth to overheating," said Li
Xiaochao, spokesman of the bureau said, stoking concerns that a
whole series of measures to cool the economy down have failed.


"We must carefully carry out all policies of the central
government and continue to strengthen and improve macro-economic
control measures," Li told reporters after announcing the
figures.

