

US oil major ConocoPhillips on Thursday vowed to seek business
opportunities in Thailand despite its exit from the retail petrol
market here via a deal worth 275 million dollars.


The third-largest US giant earlier agreed to sell Thailand's top
energy firm PTT some 147 gasoline (petrol) stations here.


The announcement followed the US firm's sale of its retail assets
in Malaysia earlier this week but ConocoPhillips insisted the
company would continue to seek business opportunities in
Thailand.


"We will explore opportunities to work together in the future,"
Gary Freiberger, general manager of ConocoPhillips' Asia-Pacific
downstream operations, told a joint news conference with PTT on
Thursday.


Freiberger stopped short of giving details and did not take any
questions from reporters.


JP Morgan, a financial advisor to ConocoPhillips, said the moves
in Malaysia and Thailand were part of the US group's streamlining
efforts in the region.


"The asset sales in Thailand were under ConocoPhillips' strategy
to exit the Thai retail oil business," Vorapak Tanyawong, JP
Morgan's senior country officer, told AFP.


A PTT source close to the deal, said the retail oil business in
Southeast Asia has a very low profit margin, compared with money-
making petroleum exploration and production operations.


PTT said the deal with ConocoPhillips would help boost its
domestic oil market share to 34 percent from 30 percent.


The acquisition came as foreign investors grew jittery over
economic policies of Thailand's military-backed government, which
recently announced a new business law that limits foreign
ownership of Thai firms.


PTT is 52.48-percent controlled by Thailand's finance ministry.

