

A Latvian chain of shops selling building materials has been
fined 5,000 lats (7,000 euros/9,700 dollars) for running a racist
ad, the Baltic state's advertising standards watchdog said
Thursday.


"This is a serious offence because it touches on the fundamental
values of a democratic society," said Sanita Biksiniece of the
watchdog body, the Consumer Rights Protection Centre, in a
statement.


The ad, run in a newspaper, on billboards and the Internet by the
Famar Desi chain of shops, showed a dark-skinned man offering, in
broken Latvian, to renovate a house.


The slogan at the bottom of the ad read: "Everything you need for
construction. Except guest workers."


"The ad would promote the growth of racism, which, like
homophobia, is on the rise -- a fact attested to by increasing
physical and verbal attacks against people of a different
colour," Biksiniece said.


Racially motivated attacks in Latvia documented by AFP include
the verbal abuse of a black Canadian, for which criminal
proceedings were launched against five Latvian teens; and a
verbal attack on a US embassy staff member and his family, again
carried out by youngsters.


An Indian restaurant chef, the chairman of an Afro-Latvian
association, Sri Lankan students, a Brazilian tourist and a rabbi
have also been assaulted.


The ombudsman's office had called for action against Famar Desi
over the advertisement, which it said violated Latvia's
constitution, as well as international laws banning
discrimination.


The office also called the timing of the campaign "cynical": it
coincided with the International Day for the Elimination of
Racial Discrimination on March 21.


The ad was the first to be banned for racist content under
Latvian advertising laws in force since 2000.

