

Hong Kong share prices closed 2.30 percent lower Thursday as
profit-taking gathered pace after China's economic data
reinforced worries that mainland authorities may take further
measures to rein in surging growth, dealers said.


They said investors were concerned credit-tightening measures
could include another interest rate hike after the release of
robust economic data.


Fears of a major correction on the mainland's A-share markets and
a big drop on the Japanese bourse also weighed on sentiment.


The Hang Seng Index closed down 477.38 points at 20,299.71, off a
low of 20,232.81 and a high of 20,634.90. Turnover was heavy at
62.99 billion Hong Kong dollars (8.1 billion US).


Data released Thursday showed that China's gross domestic product
(GDP) grew 11.1 percent year-on-year in the three months to
March, compared with 10.4 percent in the fourth quarter and 10.7
percent for 2006.


"Concerns over (possible) further credit-tightening in the
mainland weakened sentiment and provided investors an excuse to
lock in profits," said Kitty Chan, director at Celestial Asia
Securities.


Jackson Wong, investment manager at Tanrich Securities, said
investors are worried that if China is growing too fast, there
would be further measures to slow down the economy.


"China normally announces new monetary measures on a Friday, so
this could happen again tomorrow," he said. "If not tomorrow, I
believe it would happen sooner or later," he said.


Wong said although the data was in line with market expectations,
he believed the market has not yet seen its full impact.


"We will have to wait and see how investors would digest today's
data," he said.


Chan believes the market would recover next month.


"Expectation of further credit-tightening, I believe, has been
discounted at this point, which could mean that the market could
recover lost ground sometime May," she said.


Chan said the index could find strong support at the 20,100
level, with trading likely to be rangebound in the near term.


Dealers said the market is also haunted by worries over a
possible significant correction in the Shanghai market and its
potential spillover effect on H-shares here.


The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index closed down 332.05 points
or 3.20 percent at 10,029.35.


China Life dropped 0.85 or 3.38 percent at 24.30 dollars, Bank of
China fell 0.12 or 2.94 percent at 3.96 and China Mobile was down
3.1 or 4.10 percent to 72.50.


HSBC was down 0.80 at 143.20 and Hutchison Whampoa dropped 1.10
at 75.25.


The property sector index lost 561.75 points or 2.28 percent at
24,082.46, with Cheung Kong falling 2.50 to 100.80 and Henderson
Land down 0.95 at 47.0.

