

The dollar steadied near a record low against the euro on
Thursday as dealers fretted over rising interest rates in Europe
and the prospect of lower borrowing costs in the United States.


Rising European interest rates are luring foreign investors to
make short-term deposits in euros and pounds, increasing the
currencies' values on the foreign exchange market.


Elsewhere, gold prices shed four dollars in European trading amid
concerns that strong growth in China could force the Asian tiger
to increase interest rates to curb strong growth, in turn denting
its demand for metals.


The European single currency had surged past 1.36 dollars for the
first time since December 2004 on Wednesday and sterling hit a
near 26-year high against the against the US currency.


Dealers will focus later on Thursday on the Philadelphia Fed's
survey of manufacturing activity.


"Since the market looks to be moving sideways after heady dollar
losses, today's US data ... may be of moderate support for the
dollar ahead of the weekend," said Commerzbank analyst Gavin
Friend.


"A breather for the dollar is welcome ... but we expect
consolidation to be short-lived and limited to 1.3480 dollars.


"Next week we would expect euro/dollar to re-test its 2004
lifetime high at 1.3665."


The euro had hit the all-time peak on December 30, 2004.


In early European trading on Thursday, the euro eased to 1.3589
dollars, from 1.3607 dollars in New York late on Wednesday.


The dollar stood at 117.81 yen, compared with 118.66 previously.


The greenback is under intense pressure because dealers are
worried about an apparent economic slowdown in the United States
-- while European economies are showing signs of strengthening.


As a result, the market continues to focus on prospects for
further interest rate rises in Britain, the eurozone and Japan,
where they stand currently at 5.25 percent, 3.75 percent and 0.50
percent respectively.


At the same time, many market watchers believe the US Federal
Reserve will cut its interest rates later this year from the
current level of 5.25 percent.


The European Central Bank said on Thursday that inflation was
still a threat to the eurozone economy, hinting that it might
have to raise interest rates further.


Even though the ECB has raised borrowing costs seven times in the
past 16 months, "risks to the medium-term outlook for price
stability remain on the upside," it wrote in its April monthly
bulletin.


The euro has sparkled this week, striking a high of 1.3616
dollars on Wednesday, and also hit a record peak of 162.43 yen on
Monday.


The pound sterling had struck 2.0133 dollars on Wednesday to
reach its highest reading since June 1981 as dealers priced in a
likely rate hike in May following stronger-than-expected
inflation data.


Early on Thursday the euro was changing hands at 1.3589 dollars,
against 1.3607 dollars late Wednesday, 160.06 yen (161.49),
0.6782 pounds (0.6775) and 1.6344 Swiss francs (1.6379).


The dollar stood at 117.81 yen (118.66) and 1.2028 Swiss francs
(1.2036).


The pound was being traded at 2.0036 dollars (2.0083).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold fell to 684.85
dollars per ounce, from 688.75 dollars late on Wednesday.

