

Afghan troops tore down a new anti-Taliban fence erected by
Pakistani soldiers on the border between the two countries
Thursday, sparking a gunbattle which caused no casualties,
officials said.


The clash was the first since Pakistan President Pervez
Musharraf, a key US ally, announced plans earlier this year to
fence 35 kilometres (22 miles) of his country's northwestern
frontier to stop the movement of militants.


The Afghan defence ministry said in a statement that the fighting
happened between the Afghan border town of Shkin and Angoor Adda
in Pakistan's troubled tribal belt.


The Pakistani military was not immediately available for comment.


"Today at 9:30 am (0500 GMT) the Afghan army moved to the area
and removed the fence. Pakistani troops fired on our forces. The
Afghan army returned fire," the defence ministry statement said.


It said that Afghan forces first reached the area on Tuesday,
after which Pakistani troops immediately stopped work on the
barbed wire fence and pulled back.


"But unfortunately, taking advantage of the darkness of the
night, the Pakistani forces again erected fences overnight
Wednesday," the statement said.


The ministry said there were no casualties reported.


The statement said the Afghan government had begun diplomatic
efforts to stop Pakistan fencing the border.


Afghanistan says it has written to United Nations chief Ban Ki-
moon to express "deep concern". Afghanistan disputes the current
border with Pakistan, known as the Durand Line, saying it cuts
off part of its territory.


The Durand Line was drawn up in 1893 by British India, which once
included Pakistan, to divide the powerful Pashtun tribes.


Islamabad says it has no choice but to fence the border if it is
to avoid repeated calls by the international community to stop
Taliban rebels based in Pakistan from mounting attacks in
Afghanistan.

