

The European Commission warned The Netherlands on Thursday
against breaking new EU rules against political interference in
cross-border banking takeovers, which The Hague played a key role
in drawing up.


Noting that The Netherlands "is known for its open and
progressive economy," the country's free-market credentials could
be put at risk if authorities sought to discourage a foreign
takeover of Dutch bank ABN Amro, Commission spokesman Oliver
Drewes said.


While the Commission regretted any EU member "going down the road
of protectionism" it would be "even more disappointing" if the
Dutch did because they were the driving force behind new rules on
cross-border banking takeovers, he said.


Those rules, which were adopted last month, were drawn up largely
in reaction to former Bank of Italy's Antonio Fazio's attempts to
block ABN Amro's takeover in 2005 of an Italian bank.


Now ABN Amro finds itself at the centre of a possible bidding war
with a consortium of three foreign banks weighing a counter-offer
for the Dutch bank to thwart British banking group Barclays'
takeover plans.


The Dutch central bank warned the consortium made up of Royal
Bank of Scotland, Banco Santander of Spain and Belgian-Dutch
group Fortis that their bid would be risky and complicated for
shareholders.


Drewes said that EU Internal Market Commissioner Charlie McCreevy
expected Dutch authorities "to respect the spirit and the rules"
on cross-border banking takeovers and "is watching this very
clearly and very precisely."


"The principle of non-discrimination is very important here,"
Drewes added. "If a potential bid is more difficult or less
difficult than any other it's not supposed to play a role."

