

Marwan Barghuti, the charismatic leader of the second Palestinian
uprising, on Thursday called for the release of BBC journalist
Alan Johnston kidnapped more than a month ago in Gaza.


"From my prison cell and in the name of the 10,000 Palestinian
prisoners I call for the immediate release of journalist Alan
Johnston, a friend of the Palestinian people," Barghuti said in a
statement published by an organisation advocating his release.


Barghuti also called for "respecting and protecting journalists
working in Palestine" and categorically rejected "kidnappings and
aggressions that enormously harm Palestinian interests and our
national struggle."


Johnston, 44, was snatched at gunpoint from his car as he drove
home from work in Gaza City on March 12. One of the few Western
reporters to have both lived and worked in Gaza, he has become
the longest-held kidnapped Westerner in the unruly territory.


On Sunday, a little-known Islamist group claimed in a statement
to have killed him, but Palestinian authorities have said there
was no proof that the claim by the Kataeb al-Jihad al-Tawheed
(The Brigades of Holy War and Unity) was true.


Barghuti is the charismatic West Bank leader of president Mahmud
Abbas's Fatah party and was a key player during the early days of
the second intifada that began in September 2000.


He was arrested by Israel in April 2002 and convicted in May 2004
on five counts of murder and one of attempted murder resulting
from three suicide attacks and one failed attack. He is currently
serving five life sentences.


His incarceration has not diminished his appeal on the
Palestinian street -- in January 2006, he was re-elected to the
Palestinian parliament and he is widely seen as a possible
successor to Abbas.

