

The papal envoy to Turkey has linked the grisly murders of three
men at a Christian Turkish publishing house to upcoming
presidential elections in the country, a press report said
Thursday.


"Events like this have already happened during electoral
campaigns," Monsignor Antonio Lucibello told the Italian daily La
Stampa.


The papal nuncio linked the murders to Saturday's protest in
Ankara, when half a million people demonstrated against any
presidential bid by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan.


Erdogan's critics fear he would seek to Islamicise Turkey if
elected. He announced Wednesday that he would announce his
party's nomination for upcoming presidential elections next week.


Outgoing President Ahmet Necdet Sezer, a staunch secularist, must
step down on May 16.


Three men including a German had their throats slit Wednesday in
the eastern Turkish city of Malatya at the Zirve (Summit)
publishing house, which distributes bibles and Christian
literature. The publishers had already received threats.


Police have taken ten people into custody over the killings,
which shocked the mainly Muslim country and fuelled fears among
Turkey's tiny Christian community.


Lucibello noted the "presence of well-known fanatical, ultra-
nationalist groups" in Turkey, but he urged against generalising
because "Turkish society has very different positions ... from
those of the fanatics."


Christians of various denominations including Syrian, Armenian,
Orthodox, Protestant and Catholic or their places of worship have
come under attack in the past.

