

An Indian MP has been arrested for trying to smuggle a mother and
a teenage boy to Canada by fraudulently using his own family's
passports, police said Thursday.


Officers said they were investigating if the MP was involved in a
deal to take the pair out of India illegally in return for cash.


Babubhai Katara was caught on Wednesday at New Delhi's Indira
Gandhi International airport along with the woman and the boy
after staff noticed that passport photographs did not match the
travellers, the Indian Express reported.


The trio have been "charged with cheating by impersonation,
forgery for cheating, using forged documents, misuse of passports
and criminal conspiracy," police spokesman Rajan Bhagat said.


A Delhi court on Thursday ordered Katara to spend 10 days in
police custody and sent the teenager to a boys remand home,
pending further inquiries. The woman was given four days in
police custody.


The main opposition Bharatiya Janata Party, to which the MP
belonged, swiftly suspended him.


The media quoted the woman's relatives as saying they had agreed
to pay three million rupees (71,000 dollars) to a travel agent to
send her to Toronto.


"(Travel agent) Joginder told me they can take my daughter-in-law
out of the country. I was worried but he assured me that he would
get her a valid visa," Charanjeet Kaur told India's CNN-IBN news
network.


"We didn't know how they were taking her. We don't know who the
man is, I just came to know he's an MP," the woman's mother-in-
law told the network in northern Punjab state, which is the
source of much of India's illegal immigration to the West.


Separate media reports said that Katara had used his wife and
son's passports to carry out the deception.

