

Spanish construction group Sacyr Vallehermoso made a takeover bid
worth 6.5 billion euros (8.8 billion dollars) for French public
works company Eiffage on Thursday, a source close to the move
said.


Sacyr Vallehermoso had sent its proposals for a share-swap
takeover to French market regulators on Thursday, the day after
it had failed to obtain five seats on the board of Eiffage, the
source said.


A spokeswoman for the French stock market operator Euronext said
that trading in shares in Eiffage had been delayed "following the
presentation of a bid."


Trading in shares in Sacyr Vallehermoso was also suspended in
Madrid.


Eiffage is the third-biggest public works construction group in
France and the sixth-biggest in Europe.


The offer was based on 12 shares in the Spanish company for five
in Eiffage and valued Eiffage at 6.5 billion euros on the basis
of the value of shares in Sacyr at the close of trading on
Wednesday, the source said.


On Wednesday, the Spanish group, which is the bigggest
shareholder in Eiffage with 33.0 percent of the capital and 29.0
percent of the voting rights, was again rebuffed in attempts to
obtain seats on the board of the French group.


An acrimonious general meeting of Eiffage had earlier removed the
voting rights of 89 other Spanish shareholders representing 17.5
percent of the votes, on allegations that they were acting in
concert but had not declared the aggregate size of their
holdings.

