

Australian share prices closed down 1.15 percent Thursday as
investors locked in profits after a record-breaking run and
responded to a downturn on Asian markets, dealers said.


They said stocks sold off around the region ahead of Chinese
first quarter economic data, with many concerned that very strong
figures could prompt Beijing into more draconian measures to slow
the runaway economy.


The data, which came after the close in Australia, showed the
Chinese economy picking up speed in the first quarter although
the actual outcome at 11.1 percent growth was largely in line
with analyst forecasts.


A sharp sell-off at the end of February in Shanghai stocks on
concerns the Chinese economy could slow sparked turmoil on the
global markets but since then they have recovered most if not all
of the ground lost to return to record breaking ways.


The key SP/ASX 200 lost 71.8 points at 6,165.1 after Wednesday's
record close of 6,236.9 while the broader All Ordinaries index
fell 66.7 points at 6,148.3.


Turnover was 1.82 billion shares worth 6.72 billion dollars (5.58
billion US), with 784 stocks down, 483 up and 335 unchanged.


ABN Amro Morgans director of equities Bill Chatterton said
profit-taking led to bloodletting on the local market.


"There is a fair bit of red about the place ... but particularly
some of the very big movers recently have just come back quite a
bit today," he said.


"It's not surprising that on occasions people are going to take a
little bit of money off the table.


"I don't see the market falling in a hole or doing anything like
that but we're going to have times when the market becomes a bit
more volatile than normal. And we're seeing a little bit of this
at the moment."


Chatterton said some of the losses were attributable to the
rising Australian dollar, which continues to trade above 83 US
cents, causing conern that exporters might suffer.


"The Aussie dollar has been rising so there might be a bit of
negativity on the back of that firming currency," he said.


"From a local perspective, it puts a bit of a (dampener) in those
companies that have a lot of overseas exposure."


Bell Potter Securities private client advisor Stuart Smith said
investors also wanted to lock in profits amid fears that Chinese
growth figures could prompt an interest rate rise if they were
stronger than expected.


"There's some fear that the authorities will act to cool the
economy by hiking rates and that's having an effect right through
Asian markets," Smith said.


Dealers said index leader BHP Billiton and rival miner Rio Tinto
were sold on fears that any slowdown in China's growth will
impact on commodity prices.


BHP Billiton fell 0.78 dollars or 2.57 percent to 29.62 dollars
while Rio Tinto retreated 1.95 or 2.31 percent to 82.55.


Dealers said banks were sold down after a strong rally ahead of
earnings reports in coming weeks for the six months to March.


National Australia Bank closed down 0.61 at 43.41, Commonwealth
Bank retreated from record levels to end down 0.60 at 52.70, ANZ
lost 0.37 to 30.90 and Westpac fell 0.39 to 27.10.


Telstra gained 0.03 to 4.77 while Optus-owner SingTel dropped
0.08 to 2.69.


Qantas fell 0.01 to 5.36 and rival Virgin Blue ended up 0.03 at
2.65.

