

Australian historians said Thursday they had discovered long-lost
film of the ill-fated Gallipoli campaign of World War One, a
defining event for the fledgling Australia and New Zealand.


The grainy black and white footage, of Australian and New Zealand
Army Corps (Anzac) troops at Anzac Cove and British soldiers at
nearby Suvla Bay, runs for only 45 seconds.


But researchers at the Australian War Memorial said it was a
priceless relic of a battle commemorated in both Australia and
New Zealand each April 25, or Anzac Day.


"It's quite exciting because we have so little footage of
Gallipoli that any addition is welcome," the memorial's film and
sound collection curator Stephanie Boyle told reporters.


The film, which has been sitting in the archives for almost 70
years, is believed to have been shot by British war correspondent
Ellis Ashmead-Bartlett.


It was spliced between images from the Western Front and
patriotic recruitment shots on a reel bought by the memorial in
1938.


"You have got the trails and the dugouts. You can see soldiers
walking around. They are very small but they are there," said
Boyle.


Some 8,709 Australians and 2,701 New Zealanders were killed in
nine months of gruelling warfare after the Anzacs waded ashore at
the Gallipoli peninsula on the Turkish coast at dawn on April 25,
1915.


The invasion -- a failed bid by the allies to open a new front in
the war against Germany -- also took the lives of more than
21,000 British troops, 9,800 French soldiers, 1,300 Indians and
some 86,000 Turks.


The battle is seen as a key moment in the history of the young
nations of Australia and New Zealand, where Anzac Day has become
a memorial day for all fallen troops and both countries' biggest
national holiday.


Gallipoli came only 14 years after a number of former British
colonies came together to form Australia and was the first battle
where Australians fought under their own flag.

