

Japan's TDK Corp. said Thursday that it had agreed to sell its
recording media business and brand rights to Imation Corp of the
United States for 300 million dollars.


The move comes just one year after TDK withdrew from the CD and
DVD business and effectively marks the completion of the
restructuring of its recording media business, which has been
losing money in recent years.


TDK will receive about 280 million dollars' worth of Imation
stock, or 17 percent of the company, and 20 million in cash in
return for handing over the right to use its name for magnetic
tape, optical media and other products.


TDK Corp, whose main products include magnetic heads used in
hard-disk drives, may receive a further 70 million dollars based
on the financial performance of the acquired business.


"Due to rapid changes in the market amid ongoing digitisation of
recording media, a reorganisation of the business beyond the
single entity is now necessary," TDK financial officer Seiji
Enami said at a press conference.


TDK said it will continue to conduct research and development (R
and D) and to manufacture some recording media products for
Imation and other customers who sell them under their own brand.


"The latest deal will allow us to focus on R and D and
manufacturing value-added products such as Blu-ray discs, thereby
improving and enhancing the efficiency of our recording media
business as a whole," Enami said.


When the deal is completed, TDK will emerge as the single largest
shareholder of Imation -- which was spun off from 3M in 1996 --
with a 17 percent stake.


"Imation is bringing the well known TDK brand into our growing
portfolio of strong consumer brands as well as adding the highly
respected TDK brand recording media products to our commercial
and consumer product portfolio," Imation chief executive Frank
Russomanno said in a statement.

