

The European Central Bank said on Thursday that inflation was
still a threat to the eurozone economy, hinting that it might
have to raise interest rates further from current five-year high
points.


Even though the ECB has raised borrowing costs seven times in the
past 16 months, "risks to the medium-term outlook for price
stability remain on the upside," it wrote in its April monthly
bulletin, published on Thursday.


The risks related in particular "to stronger than currently
expected wage developments in a context of ongoing robust growth
in employment and economic activity."


Money supply growth, which the ECB sees as a gauge of future
inflation, was also very strong, the bank said.


"Given the vigorous monetary and credit growth in an environment
of already ample liquidity, a cross-check of the outcome of the
economic analysis with that of the monetary analysis supports the
assessment that upside risks to price stability prevail over the
medium to longer term," the report stated.


"Accordingly, the governing council will continue to monitor very
closely all developments. Indeed, it is essential to ensure that
risks to price stability over the medium term do not materialise.


"Acting in a firm and timely manner to ensure price stability in
the medium term remains warranted," it said.


Last week, the guardian of the euro held its key interest rates
steady, as expected, at 3.75 percent, their highest level in five
and a half years.


But ECB chief Jean-Claude Trichet signalled the bank was ready to
raise eurozone borrowing costs again in June.


The prospect of higher interest rates has sent the euro close to
record highs against the dollar this week.

