

A prominent separatist in Indian Kashmir said Thursday he was
boycotting direct talks with New Delhi, saying such a meeting
would be pointless without the participation of Pakistan.


The so-called "Kashmir roundtable" is due to be held in New Delhi
on April 24, the third such meeting aimed at easing tensions in
the revolt-hit state, which is divided between nuclear-armed
rivals India and Pakistan.


"We are not against talks. But talks should involve mujahedin
(militants), leaders from India and Pakistan and both parts of
Kashmir," Mirwaiz Umar Farooq said.


Farooq heads the region's moderate faction of main separatist
alliance, the Hurriyat Conference, pushing for total independence
for Kashmir.


"Talks cannot be held with everybody," he also said, referring to
pro-India political groups which have accepted India's
sovereignity over Kashmir and are also involved in the talks.


"Talks can only be held with the heirs of martyrs," he said.


The first two meetings last year were attended by pro-Indian
parties only  with those opposed to Indian rule in Kashmir
staying away.


Hardliners are also boycotting the roundtable, arguing that
bilateral talks between New Delhi and Kashmiri parties -- an idea
of Prime Minister Manmohan Singh -- will not resolve the dispute
as Pakistan was also an "important party" in the dispute.


India and Pakistan hold parts of Kashmir, but claim it in full.
They have fought two of their three wars over the scenic region
since getting independence from Britain in 1947.


The roundtable process is different from a "composite dialogue"
launched by the two nations in January 2004.


The Farooq-led Hurriyat has held talks with India in the past,
but has declined to share the platform with pro-India Kashmiri
groups.


The insurgency in Kashmir was launched in 1989 and has left more
than 42,000 people dead by an official count. Human rights groups
put the toll at 70,000, including 10,000 people who have
disappeared and are presumed dead.

