

Zimbabwe's annual tobacco auctions, which were postponed last
month following a pricing dispute and shortages of wrapping
materials, will now start on Tuesday, officials said.


"The (auction) floors are expected to open on April 24
(Tuesday)," Zimbabwe Tobacco Association vice-president Andrew
Ferreira told AFP.


He said farmers and buyers were discussing minimum prices for
their products and exchange rates with the agriculture ministry
and the central bank and hoped to reach an agreement "before the
floors open."


Last month, farmers withheld deliveries in protest against the
ruling exchange rate of one US dollar to 250 Zimbabwe dollars,
which they rejected as uneconomic.


The "golden leaf" farmers said demanded a special exchange rate
to enable them to repay bank loans and buy inputs for the next
farming season.


Andrew Matibiri, chief executive officer for the Tobacco Industry
and Marketing Board said although all was set for the opening on
Tuesday, the pricing issue remained a sticky point.


"There are issues related to pricing that the responsible
authorities are addressing, but we expect that between Friday and
Monday something will be announced," Matibiri said.


Tobacco production in Zimbabwe has declined from a record high of
236.13 million kilogrammes (236,130 metric tons) in 2000 to just
55.6 million kilogrammes last year.


While this year's figure is expected to be around 70 million
kilogrammes it is still a far cry from the former glory days.


Critics blame the slump in production on President Robert
Mugabe's controversial land reform programme launched in 2000
which saw the government seize at least 4,000 farms from their
white farmers for redistribution to landless blacks.


The majority of the new farmers often lack the skills and means
to farm.

