

Pakistan's top court Thursday heard a petition by the chief
justice challenging his suspension by President Pervez Musharraf
and the authority of a legal panel dealing with his case.


Chief Justice Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry was dismissed by
Musharraf on March 9 over allegations of misconduct including
that he used his position to secure a top police job for his son,
which he denies.


The case against him is currently being heard by a panel of
senior judges called the Supreme Judicial Council -- but Chaudhry
has now taken his case to the Supreme Court, which he once
headed.


"The Supreme Judicial Council is not the proper competent forum
to try the chief justice," Chaudhry's chief counsel Aitzaz Ahsan
told the court before it adjourned.


The petition was lodged by the chief justice's legal team on
Wednesday.


The Supreme Court said it would hear the case again on April 24,
coinciding with the next sitting of the judicial council, he told
reporters afterwards.


The appeal is the latest twist in a constitutional crisis that
poses one of the most serious threats to Musharraf's eight-year
rule since he seized power in a military coup.


Musharraf's decision to dismiss Chaudhry sparked mass
demonstrations in this volatile South Asian nation of 160 million
people, which have since decreased in size but continued whenever
the judge appears in court.


Opponents accuse Musharraf of sacking Chaudhry illegally in an
attempt to weaken the judiciary and make it easier for him to
stay on as army chief past 2007, when the constitution says he is
meant to give up the position.


Musharraf is also expected to seek re-election by the outgoing
parliament for another five years ahead of national polls due
late this year or early next -- a move that could spark other
legal challenges.

