

Chinese share prices slumped 4.52 percent Thursday as concerns
about possible tightening measures aimed at slowing the runaway
economy prompted profit-taking after recent record gains, dealers
said.


They said turnover was huge at 37 billion dollars as investors
cashed out ahead of first-quarter economic growth figures that
were released only minutes after the close.


The data given by the National Bureau of Statistics showed
China's economy grew 11.1 percent in the first quarter of 2007,
picking up sharply from 10.4 percent in the last three months of
2006.


Analyst forecasts had been for around 11 percent growth as the
economy runs ahead even faster despite a whole series of measures
by the government to slow it to a more sustainable pace.


Growth in the world's fourth-largest economy reached 10.7 percent
in 2006.


The fall was the biggest since February 27, when a near 9.0
percent plunge in Shanghai share prices sparked global turmoil.


On Thursday, the benchmark Shanghai Composite Index, which covers
both A- and B-shares listed on the Shanghai Stock Exchange,
closed down 163.38 points at 3,449.02 on record turnover of
187.76 billion yuan (24.28 billion dollars).


The Shanghai A-share Index lost 171.79 points or 4.52 percent at
3,624.90 on turnover of 186.74 billion yuan and the Shenzhen
A-share Index was down 52.10 points or 4.92 percent at 1,006.08
on turnover of 103.73 billion yuan.


"Institutional investors cut their holdings aggressively in
anticipation that the first-quarter economic data, especially the
consumer inflation figure, will trigger more credit-tightening
moves by the government," said Zeng Bo, an analyst at Changjiang
Securities.


However, some said that the current market momentum was simply
too strong to be undercut by unfavourable data or even renewed
government efforts to cool the economy.


"Even if the central bank decides to raise interest rates again
after the economic data, it will unlikely change the fact that
fresh money is still rushing into the market and that liquidity
is still abundant," Wu Dazhong, an analyst at Shenyin Wanguo
Securities, said.


"In the medium- and long-run, the market will continue its upward
trend on the back of strong corporate profit growth for this
year," Wu said.


Banks, property developers and steelmakers led the decliners,
with Shanghai Pudong Development Bank down 1.78 yuan or 6.18
percent at 27.03 as Shenzhen Development Bank lost 1.15 yuan or
5.0 percent at 21.84.


Poly Real Estate Group was down its 10 percent daily limit at
31.49 yuan, while Finance Street Holding also fell by its 10
percent limit to 16.86. China Vanke was down 1.32 yuan or 7.04
percent at 17.44.


Guangzhou Iron and Steel tumbled 0.62 yuan or 8.66 percent to
6.54 and Maanshan Iron and Steel was off 0.54 yuan or 6.94
percent at 7.24.


Major electric group China Yangtze Power lost 0.40 yuan or 2.98
percent at 13.04 after reporting lower 2006 net profit.


Telecommunications group ZTE Corp lost 1.95 yuan or 4.05 percent
at 46.15 after reporting 2006 net profit fell 40 pct to 767
million yuan due to higher costs and a drop in sales in China and
Africa.


The Shanghai B-share Index was down 8.50 points to 192.62 on
turnover of 948.24 million dollars and the Shenzhen B-share Index
fell 26.34 points at 536.61 on turnover of 983.17 million Hong
Kong dollars (127 million dollars).

