

Chery Automobile, China's largest private car maker, has set an
ambitious annual sales target of 500,000 cars this year, company
chairman Yin Tongyao said Thursday.


The target is a substantial jump from its record 305,200 units
sold of last year, but that is not the biggest problem facing the
opportunistic group from Wuhu city in eastern China's Anhui
province.


"Capacity is really a big problem for us now," Yin told reporters
on the sidelines of a briefing ahead of the Shanghai auto show
that opens to the general public Sunday.


"It seems we are reaching a bottleneck and we are trying to break
through and hopefully we can reach the sales target of 500,000,"
he said.


China maintains strict oversight on loan financing, investment
and production in the domestic market that makes it difficult for
smaller car makers like Chery to expand capacity at will.


Although the majority of Chery's sales are in its home market,
the nine-year old group has aggressively sought to expand its
presence beyond third-world markets to developed Western markets,
including the US and Europe.


Most recently the firm, which is already the nation's fourth
largest producer of passenger cars, has sought ties with German-
US auto giant DaimlerChrysler to form a limited partnership to
build small cars.


To fulfil its overseas strategy, Yin said the company had been in
touch with almost every major car manufacturer in the world about
the overseas expansion and expects more foreign cooperation soon.


"We've gone abroad to discuss the cooperation with major car
manufacturers and most of them have visited us as well," said
Yin.


To tap more international markets the group has said it plans
assembly of its cars in the Middle East, Eastern Europe and South
America.


In 2007, Chery vice-president Li Feng told reporters that export
sales will exceed 80,000 cars, up from 50,000 last year.

