

China on Thursday warned Canada not to get involved in the case
of a Canadian national sentenced to life in prison on terrorism
and separatism charges.


A court in Urumqi, capital of the westernmost province of
Xinjiang, jailed Chinese-born ethnic Uighur Huseyin Celil for
"the crime of splitting the motherland" and involvement in
terrorism, foreign ministry spokesman Liu Jianchao said,
confirming earlier reports.


"The case of Huseyin Celil is an internal affair and Canada has
no right to interfere. We hope Canada can take the right position
on this case," Liu told a regular press briefing.


The verdict comes ahead of a visit to China later this month by
Canadian Foreign Minister Peter MacKay, during which he is
expected to raise the issue, Canadian officials have said.


Canada has complained that its consular officials have been
denied access to Celil during his incarceration and trial.


China accuses Celil of being a member of "terrorist" organisation
seeking to create a Muslim homeland in Central Asia, including
part of Xinjiang.


A Canadian embassy spokesman said Canadian officials were in
Urumqi, but were unable to attend the trial and denied consular
access to him.


According to Canadian news reports, Celil was arrested in
Uzbekistan in March 2006 and extradited to China the following
May.


Celil fled China a decade ago and arrived in Canada in 2001 as a
refugee and became a Canadian citizen, the reports said.


He is a member of the Uighur ethnic group, many of whose members
want to establish an independent nation.


China has increasingly stepped up pressure on Uighur Muslims in
Xinjiang since the September 2001 attacks on New York and
Washington.

