

A US-based non-governmental organisation supporting media freedom
in Russia may be forced to close after a sweeping raid by
economic police, the organisation's head said Thursday.


Economic police on Wednesday descended on the Moscow office of
Internews, a media training organisation with branches in 23
countries, seizing thousands of documents and computer servers in
a search that lasted until midnight, Internews executive director
Manana Aslamazian told AFP.


"There is unquestionably a threat that we won't be able to
continue our work here," Aslamazian said. "It will take some time
to determine how to continue our work or how to bring it to an
end, if we have to."


Internews, which is funded both by the US government and private
groups such as George Soros' Open Society Institute, provided
support for independent media that helped stir pro-democracy
uprisings in Georgia in 2004 and Ukraine in 2005.


The Kremlin viewed both as a blow to Russian influence in the
region, and has started projects including creation of pro-
Kremlin youth groups that are dedicated to preventing any such
uprising in Russia.


Alexander Vorobyov, a spokesman for the interior ministry's
economic crimes division, said the search of Internews was
"related to a previously opened criminal investigation," but
refused further comment.


Aslamazian was detained on January 21 attempting to pass through
customs at Moscow's Sheremetyevo airport with 9,550 euros (12,400
dollars) in undeclared currency. The limit for undeclared
currency is 10,000 dollars.


Aslamazian said officials might want to use a case against
Internews as a warning to other foreign-funded NGOs involved in
politically sensitive work.


"We're a large, visible organisation, and if they find some
mistakes we've made, it will be easy to make an example of us for
others," she said.

