

Japan's parliament voted Thursday to lower the age at which
juveniles can be sent to detention facilities to 12, in the
country's latest controversial measure to crack down on crime.


The lower house bill changes the age at which authorities can
send minors to reformatories from the current 14 to "around 12,"
leaving room for 11-year-olds to be confined on a case-by-case
basis.


The bill will also end restrictions on police inspecting criminal
cases involving suspects under 14.


Japan already lowered the age for criminal prosecution from 16 to
14 just seven years ago.


"Juvenile crime is becoming more violent. Considering the
feelings of the victims, this is inevitable," said Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe, who has campaigned for Japan to return to "family
values."


The bill also needs approval from the upper house, where its
passage is virtually assured as Abe's coalition enjoys a
majority.


The juvenile crime measures were softened after consultation with
the opposition, which still voted against the bill, arguing it
was too harsh.


"This bill has a number of problems because it is aimed at
strengthening punishment against children while allowing adults
to become lazy in assuming their responsibility to educate
children," the largest opposition Democratic Party of Japan said
in a statement.


Japan has one of the world's lowest crime rates but has seen a
series of grisly crimes by minors.


In 2003, a 12-year-old boy was suspected of killing a four-year-
old boy, whose bloodied and naked body was found dropped from the
roof of a car park.


As for adult crime, Japan in 2004 toughened the penal code the
first time in nearly a century, raising the maximum sentence
short of life from 20 to 30 years in prison.

