

Japanese share prices closed down 1.67 percent on Thursday, hit
by worries about a stronger yen and heavy losses on China's stock
markets ahead of key economic growth figures there, dealers said.


They said that the falls came despite fresh gains overnight on
Wall Street where the Dow Jones index hit a record closing high
on upbeat corporate news.


After markets had close here and in China, Beijing announced that
its runaway economy had picked up speed in the first quarter,
growing 11.1 percent compared with a year earlier, suggesting
that efforts to slow the country down have failed and that more
draconian measures may be needed.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
dropped 295.36 points to 17,371.97.


The broader Nikkei-225 index of all first-section shares lost
23.78 points or 1.37 percent to 1,706.93.


Decliners beat gainers 1,470 to 206, with 54 stocks flat.


Volume increased to 2.14 billion shares from 1.89 billion on
Wednesday.


Dealers said investors were wary ahead of the Japanese earnings
reporting season next week while waiting too to see what the
Chinese data would look like on concerns that Beijing might
introduce more measures to slow the economy.


Japan, like most of Asia, has extensive trade links with China.


"Foreign investors sold actively to lock in profits," said
Tsuyoshi Segawa, a strategist at Shinko Securities.


Segawa noted that foreign investors appeared to be preparing for
any possible surprise from the earnings announcements, which is
typical behaviour prior to the start of every reporting season.


Investors had been keenly awaiting the release of Chinese gross
domestic product data amid speculation that the figures might
prompt the Chinese central bank to tighten its monetary policy,
dealers said.


"Whether the Nikkei erodes further towards the 17,000 point mark
depends on developments in China," said Kazuhiro Takahashi, an
equities official at Daiwa Securities SMBC.


He said that if there was no sign of an immediate rise in
interest rates there, the Nikkei would most likely find a
steadier footing.


Dealers said the market's upside was also likely to remain
constrained by caution ahead of the local results season which
gets underway next week.


Technology stocks led the decliners after their gains Wednesday,
with the yen's rise dimming prospects for export earnings,
dealers said.


Sony slumped 150 yen or 2.29 percent to 6,410 and Toyota Motor
dropped 40 yen or 0.55 percent to 7,290.


Kyocera lost 250 yen or 2.14 percent to 11,410 after the
electronics component maker said it plans to spend up to 30
billion yen (254 million dollars) to triple its solar cell
production capacity in order to compete with chief rival, Sharp
Corp. Sharp slumped 65 yen or 2.74 percent to 2,305.


On the foreign exchange market, the dollar fell to 117.81 yen in
Tokyo afternoon trade from 118.66 late Wednesday in New York.


The euro was at 1.3587 dollars after 1.3607 and at 160.00 yen
from 161.49.

