

Growth prospects for the German economy remain favourable even
though expansion could slow because of tighter taxes and higher
interest rates, top research institutes predicted on Thursday.


In their traditional spring report, the country's five leading
economic research institutes sharply upgraded their forecasts for
German growth this year and next year to 2.4 percent.


And they predicted that Germany, with the eurozone's biggest
economy, would achieve a balanced budget by 2008.


"The current upturn will continue, but the pace of expansion will
be slower than last year," the institutes said.


"A key reason for this is restrictive fiscal policy, which is
likely to knock around half a percentage point of gross domestic
product (GDP) growth. And the European Central Bank, too, is
switching to neutral in its monetary policy."


The five institutes -- DIW in Berlin, Ifo in Munich, IfW in Kiel,
IHW in Halle and RWI in Essen -- expected the ECB to raise its
benchmark "refi" refinancing rate by a further 0.25 percentage
point this summer to 4.0 percent.


Nevertheless, the tighter monetary conditions would not hamper
"robust economic expansion, since long-term interest rates remain
comparatively low," the report said.


"The upturn is also being supported by moderate wage policy," it
said.


Contributing to GDP growth of 2.4 percent this year -- in their
previous report last autumn, the institutes had projected growth
of just 1.4 percent for 2007 -- would be strong domestic demand,
they said.


"Household consumption will gradually improve as result of higher
disposable income. Investment remains strong. And exports will
continue to support the economy," the think tanks predicted.


The strong economic performance would lead to an improvement on
the labour market, with the annual average jobless total set to
fall below four million for the first time since 2001.


The jobless total would fall to 3.767 million in 2007 from 4.487
million in 2006 and then decline to further to 3.465 million in
2008, the institutes said.


The jobless rate, which measures the total number of unemployed
as a proportion of the working population as a whole, was
projected to decline from 10.3 percent in 2006 to 8.7 percent in
2007 and 8.0 percent in 2008.


The robust economy would also have a positive effect on German
public finances, the institutes continued.


The public deficit was set to decline from 1.7 percent of GDP in
2006 to just 0.6 percent of GDP in 2007. And Germany was expected
to achieve a balanced budget, or a deficit ratio of zero, in
2008, they said.


Under the terms of the European Stability and Growth Pact,
eurozone members are not allowed to run up public deficits in
excess of 3.0 percent of GDP.


But Germany, the main architect of the pact, was in breach of the
3.0-percent rule every year between 2002 and 2005.


On the inflation front, German inflation was projected to pick up
only fractionally to 1.8 percent in both 2007 and 2008 from 1.7
percent in 2006, the institutes said.


The ECB defines price stability as inflation rates close to but
just below 2.0 percent.

