

Elderly people with dementia could be electronically tagged to
make tracking their movements easier, a British minister
suggested in comments cited by the BBC Thursday.


Science Minister Malcolm Wicks said that the move would give
sufferers "freedom to roam around their communities" and would
have to be done with permission either from them or their family.


"This is about dignity and independence in old age," he told the
BBC.


"They could have the safety and security that they would wish for
themselves and certainly their families would feel more
reassured."


The Department of Health refused to comment on whether the
proposal is likely to become government policy.


Wicks's comments received a cautious welcome from one charity
which works with old people.


Kate Jopling, of Help The Aged, said tagging might be a way of
helping elderly people with dementia to live more independently.


"At first glance, these proposals may smack of the Big Brother
state, but we shouldn't dismiss the potential of new technologies
to afford dignity and opportunity to vulnerable older people,"
she said.


"The key issue would, of course, be the involvement and consent
of the individual, and their family and carers, to ensure that
the technology means better care -- not just care that's cheaper
or more convenient."


But Shami Chakrabarti, director of civil rights group Liberty,
warned against "gimmicks" which appear to offer "cheap and quick
fixes".


There are currently some 700,000 people with dementia in Britain
and the figure is likely to increase to 1.7 million by 2050.


The condition costs the country 17 billion pounds (25 billion
euros, 34 billion dollars) a year.

