

UN human rights chief Louise Arbour on Monday urged Uganda to
stop "indiscriminate" violence and killings carried out by the
Ugandan army in the remote northeastern Karamoja region.


Arbour's office said in a statement that the "indiscriminate and
excessive use of force of the Ugandan defence forces resulted in
the killing of at least 69 civilians, including women and
children," between November 2006 and March 2007.


There were also 10 cases of torture or inhuman treatment, while
homes were destroyed during military operations against tribal
warriors in the region, it added.


"I call on the government of Uganda to respect its obligations to
protect the human rights of all individuals under its
jurisdiction at all times," Arbour said.


The UN High Commissioner for Human Rights also urged Kampala to
review its ongoing campaign to disarm tribesmen in order to halt
human rights violations and "criminal acts".


A report by Arbour deplored the Ugandan government's failure to
implement similar recommendations she made in November 2006.


The Ugandan military last month rejected accusations by a British
charity, Save the Children, which said that the army killed 66
children in Karamoja in February.


Save the Children said it had accounts from 256 people indicating
that the children were either shot at, run over by armoured
vehicles or trampled upon by animals during a February 12 clash
in Karamoja.


Arbour also expressed her serious concern about "criminal
activities" by armed Karamojong tribal warriors in the region,
including the killing of eight civilians.


Karamoja has been plagued by inter-tribal clashes for years,
often involving sophisticated weaponry. The government launched a
disarmament drive in the area in 2000.

