

Europe's main stock markets extended losses in morning trading on
Thursday, weighed down by the prospect of higher interest rates
globally, especially in China, dealers said.


Shares in European companies have been dampened since Wednesday
by expectations of increased interest rates in the eurozone and
Britain even though the euro and pound are strong.


Strengthening European currencies are also making exports more
expensive for buyers using the weak dollar.


There was also increased concern on Thursday that rapid economic
growth in China could spark a rise in Chinese interest rates, in
turn reducing demand for imported raw materials and weakening
prospects for the European mining sector, dealers said.


In late morning deals, London's FTSE 100 index of leading shares
was showing a fall of 0.68 percent to 6,405.30 points.
Frankfurt's DAX 30 slid 1.26 percent to 7,190.45 points and in
Paris the CAC 40 index shed 0.99 percent to 5,778.28 in early
afternoon trade.


The euro, meanwhile, was within sight of its all-time high point
of 1.3666 dollars which it hit on December 30, 2004, riding high
on optimism about prospects for the eurozone economies.


In London share trading, the FTSE 100 was weighed down by heavy
losses to miners. Antofagasta slid 1.97 percent to 510.75 pence
and Rio Tinto shed 1.92 percent to 3,059 pence.


Rio Tinto, the Anglo-Australian miner, was hit also after
reporting lower iron ore output in a first quarter production
update, dealers said.


In the United States, upbeat earnings news helped power the
leading Dow Jones Industrial Average to a record closing high
above 12,800 points on Wednesday but overall Wall Street ended
mixed.


Japanese share prices Thursday slid on worries about a stronger
yen and heavy losses on China's stock markets ahead of key
economic growth figures there, dealers said.


After Asian markets closed, Beijing announced that its booming
economy had picked up speed in the first quarter, growing by 11.1
percent on a 12-month comparison.


The acceleration has come about despite a whole series of cooling
measures adopted by the government since early last year,
including interest rate rises and reductions of tax incentives
for exporters.


In New York, the benchmark Dow index rose 0.24 percent to end at
12,803.84 points Wednesday, bursting its prior all-time closing
high of 12,786.64 which was struck on February 20.


The broad-market Standard and Poor's 500 index finished up 0.07
percent at 1,472.50 points, while the tech-rich Nasdaq composite
index closed down 0.26 percent to 2,510.50.


In Asia, the Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading
shares dropped 1.67 percent close at 17,371.97 points on
Thursday.


Hong Kong's key Hang Seng Index dived 2.30 percent to 20,299.71
points as profit-taking gathered pace after China's economic data
reinforced worries that mainland authorities may take further
measures to rein in surging growth, dealers said.


Chinese share prices slumped 4.52 percent on Thursday.

