

The flags around the Port America's Cup remained lifeless here
Thursday suggesting yet further disruption to the  Louis Vuitton
Cup.


The opening three days of this America's Cup qualifying
competition have already fallen victim to the lack of wind, with
the 30 races lost so far rescheduled for later in this first
round robin series of matches between the 11 challengers to
defender Alinghi.


Forecasters were predicting a light six to eight knot wind
developing during the afternoon and if that sea breeze does
materialise then at least half the day's 10-race programmme may
be staged.


If the starter does get a chance to fire his gun then first into
action will be America's BMW Oracle against the underperforming
French team Areva Challenge.


Then follows an all Italian clash between former finalist Luna
Rossa and +39 Challenge, who will be using a spare mast lent by
Alinghi after their own smashed into pieces in last week's
preliminary regatta.


Later Emirates Team New Zealand have a date with United Internet
Team Germany, China Team face Mascalzone Latino-Capitalia Team
and home side Desafio Espanol cross swords with South Africa's
Team Shosholoza.


Given the exceptionally calm conditions Juan Carlos Oliva from
+39 Challenge made a stout defence of the choice of Valencia as
host to the first America's Cup to be held in Europe since the
inaugural edition in 1851.


"There have been criticisms about using Valencia as a racecourse
and I think they are totally unfair," he said.


"We know Valencia has a fantastic racecourse - we have been
sailing here for years both in the Acts and other regattas.


"There is no doubt it is a perfect place to race and it's unfair
to criticise it because we have had three days without wind."


The Louis Vuitton Cup runs until June 12 with the winner going on
to meet Alinghi in the best of nine match series for the 32nd
America's Cup starting on June 23.

