

An historic fort overlooking Indian Kashmir's main city has
opened to visitors after a gap of 17 years as separatist violence
eases in the region, officials said Thursday.


The Hari Parbat Fort, built in 1808 when Kashmir was under Afghan
rule, was closed after Muslim militants launched a separatist
insurgency against New Delhi in 1989.


Authorities had feared the strategically located building
overlooking Srinagar could be misused by the rebels, who have
carried out bombings, suicide attacks and shootings in the city,
which is the urban hub of their activities.


Even though visitors are now free to visit, a heavy police
contingent will remain inside the fort, which is flanked by a
Muslim Sufi Shrine on one side, a Hindu temple on the other side
and also a Sikh Gurudwara.


Tourism officials said it was now safe to visit the sprawling
fort atop Srinagar's Koh-e-Marran hill which offers a bird's eye
view of the city and picturesque Dal Lake.


"As things are improving (on the security front), we decided to
reopen the once popular fort for visitors again," said Farooq
Shah, head of the region's tourism department.


Officials say 42,000 people have died in the insurgency but that
violence has decreased since India and Pakistan began a peace
process in 2004 to end six decades of hostility springing from
their rival claims to Kashmir.


The number of insurgency-related deaths in the picturesque
Himalayan region has fallen to three daily from 10 in 2001.


The design of the fort, built by Afghan governor Atta Mohammed
Khan, is similar to those in Central Asia that are characterised
by small brick and stone work and it contains a series of small
apartments.


The fort's surrounding wall was constructed in the 16th century
by Mughal Emperor Akbar and the area served as an army
cantonment.

