

Fiji's military regime Thursday moved to improve relations with
the US after the Virginia Tech massacre by backing down on
demands the Americans dismantle security around their Suva
embassy.


Fiji's coup leader Voreqe Bainimarama last week demanded the
embassy's security barriers, which have blocked a street in
central Suva, be removed by Friday.


Bainimarama, who named himself interim prime minister after the
December coup, said his change of mind was based partly on the
killing of 32 people at Virginia Tech.


"This tragedy has again driven home the fact that in this global
environment, external threats to our national and personal
security are very real," Bainimarama said in a statement.


"We all need to work together to make our lives safe."


Fiji wanted to express solidarity with the US during its time of
national mourning.


"I am hopeful that the US government will accept this decision in
the manner and the spirit in which it has been taken and in some
ways it could be a catalyst to the removal of any
misunderstanding between our two countries," he said.


Last week Bainimarama refused to meet visiting US deputy
assistant secretary of state Glyn Davies following repeated US
demands for an immediate return to democracy following the coup,
the fourth in two decades.


The military regime this week also backed down from threats made
to close down the Australian and New Zealand embassies in the
Fijian capital.


Diplomatic commentators said the softer line against its foreign
critics comes at a critical time for Fiji's foreign relations.


Representatives of the military regime are meeting the European
Union this week in Brussels to plead for the continuation of
economic aid, including more than 200 million dollars earmarked
for the restructuring of the country's crucial sugar industry.


The EU has threatened to suspend the aid unless Fiji can prove
its respect for human rights and undertake to quickly restore
democracy.

