

China is named as the main villain in an annual report on
dangerous consumer goods in the European Union, published
Thursday, after producing nearly half of all the unsafe products
reported.


In 2006, 440 different products from China, ranging from toys to
cigarette lighters, were notified as being dangerous, over 10
times more than the figure for Germany which ranked second on the
list.


Those two were followed by Italy, the US, Japan and Britain,
which all had 20-plus products on the dangerous list last year,
although for 17 percent of the products listed the country of
origin was unknown.


In total, restrictive measures concerning 924 dangerous products
were reported through Europe's Rapid Alert System for non-food
consumer products (RAPEX) in 2006, a 32-percent leap from the
previous year.


For European Commissioner for Consumer affairs, Meglena Kuneva
the rise was a good thing.


"The constant increase in the number of measures notified is a
good sign, it shows that vigilance across Europe is getting
better and better," she said.


"Today's annual report shows that the system in 2006 is working
better than ever before. My task is to make it grow to its full
potential."


Children's toys easily topped the list of unsafe consumer items,
followed by electrical appliances, motor vehicles and lighting
equipment.


The European Union is doing more than just logging the culprits,
where it deems necessary it has taken action.


Last month for instance it introduced a ban on the sale of
novelty cigarette lighters and any others considered dangerous to
children.


The ban forbids the sale of lighters which resemble objects that
are particularly attractive to children -- such as toys, mobile
phones, guns and cars -- and any others that are not "child-
resistant".


The EU is also seeking to stop the products at their source, with
a particular emphasis on China.

