

Three losing candidates in East Timor's presidential election
appealed the result Thursday, their lawyer said, a move that
further delays the official outcome of the first round.


Results from the April 9 election released Wednesday confirmed
Prime Minister Jose Ramos-Horta and the ruling Fretilin party's
Francisco Guterres will contest a runoff next month.


But a lawyer for the three candidates said the April 9 poll had
been manipulated and he had protested to the appeal court, in a
bid to have it declared void.


"We have appealed the results that were announced yesterday by
the CNE (national election commission) because it was invalid and
full of manipulations," lawyer Benvides Correia told reporters.


Neither leading candidate won 50 percent of the vote required to
secure an outright win to replace charismatic president Xanana
Gusmao in the first election since the country gained
independence in 2002.


Wednesday's results were final pending a 24-hour window for
candidates to appeal, the national election commission said.


The candidates who are appealing include opposition Democrat
Party chairman Fernando "Lasama" de Araujo, who placed third with
19.18 percent, and 77,459 votes, as well as Lucia Lobato, who won
8.86 percent of the vote, and Fransisco Xavier, with 14.39
percent.


Voter turnout in the April 9 poll was high and Timorese are
hoping the election stalemate will not plunge the impoverished
nation into more turmoil and bloodshed.


Wednesday's result had been delayed after a technical error was
discovered and also because of concerns of irregularities.


The runoff for the largely ceremonial post is due to be held on
May 8.

