

Japan on Thursday launched a probe into allegations that
Australian farmers wined and dined Japanese officials inspecting
produce for export, officials said.


Two agricultural ministry officers went to Australia last year on
a routine visit to see whether local produce met Japanese
standards.


The Tokyo Shimbun said that although the inspectors' work was
mainly in the eastern state of Queensland, they went on
sightseeing trips to the giant outback monolith of Uluru and the
southern island of Tasmania.


The newspaper said a local farmers' organisation paid for travel
expenses and fine dining, with the tab running to 1.16 million
yen (10,000 dollars).


The agricultural ministry said it had launched an investigation
into the report.


"The two partly admitted they went on sightseeing tours in
Australia, but they said they had offered to pay for the tours
and that the Australian farm organisation refused to accept,"
farm ministry official Kazuo Tanabe said.


"But that's only their testimonies and we don't have material to
back up their remarks," he told AFP.


He declined to identify the Australian group in question or its
products.


The ministry probe will also cover other officers on similar
business in Australia between 2002 and 2006, and those who
travelled elsewhere in the world in 2006.


In total, some 100 officers will come under the scanner and face
reprimands if they violated the ethics code for public officials,
Tanabe said.


He said it was customary for beneficiaries of agricultural trade
to pay for foreign inspectors to travel to their country.


"The key to consider in the investigation is whether the officers
received anything that affected the interests of any farm
organisations which offered entertainment," he said.

