

The city of Rome has approved plans to create a museum sector
encompassing the Colosseum, the Imperial Forums and the
Campidoglio to rival Paris's Louvre, press reports said Thursday.


Covering an area of six hectares (15 acres), the "Great
Campidoglio" will be achieved by converting several buildings
into museums. One of them will house collections currently at the
Museum of Roman Civilisation, located far from Rome's historic
centre.


"We will free some important buildings to turn them over to the
archaeological and cultural life of the city," said Mayor Walter
Veltroni, whose urban planners on Wednesday finalised the plan,
dubbed the "new Louvre" by the press.


"The sites and monuments involved will cover a total area of
61,250 square meters, (659,050 square feet) while the Louvre in
Paris covers 70,000," Veltroni said.


Seven buildings would be opened or reopened to the public, he
added.


The first phase in the coming months will see some 5,000 city
workers move out of a site near the Circo Massimo that will house
the Roman Civilisation collections.


Nearby, the archaeological dig of Trajan's Market, closed to the
public for years, will reopen in October, with a new museum at
the Imperial Forums to showcase the artefacts uncovered.


The Palazzo Rivaldi in the Imperial Forums will be reopened to
the public, converted into a museum with collections of ancient
statues and sculptures.


Last year Italy's museums and archaeological sites recorded a 4.4
percent and 11 percent increase in visitors respectively.


Nearly three million people visited the Imperial Forums and 1.81
million travelled to the ruined Roman city of Pompei near Naples,
according to the tourism and leisure federation Federculture.

