

Authorities in Indian Kashmir have charged nine members of the
security forces with murdering a street vendor and trying to pass
him off as a Pakistani militant, officials said Thursday.


"The accused were charged with abduction, murder and destruction
of evidence," a police official said of the charges, the latest
in flurry of cases against Indian security personnel in the
divided and revolt-hit state.


The vendor, Ghulam Nabi Wani, was detained by police in the state
summer capital Srinagar in March last year, driven to northern
Baramulla district and killed in a faked shoot-out.


He was later falsely presented as a "Pakistani militant,"
although DNA tests confirmed his real identity.


The charges, announced late on Wednesday, are the latest to be
levelled against security forces after authorities in February
exhumed the bodies of five people who were also killed and passed
off as militants.


Police have already charged more than a dozen security force
personnel with murdering a Muslim cleric and a carpenter in two
other fake clashes with militants.


Security forces are awarded cash and promotions for killing
Islamic militants in the state, where an insurgency against New
Delhi's rule has raged since 1989 and claimed at least 42,000
lives by official count.


Indian human rights groups say 10,000 Kashmiri Muslims have
disappeared since the insurgency began, most after being detained
by security forces, who have broad powers of arrest in the
restive Himalayan state. The government says between 1,000 and
3,900 are missing.

