

The Swiss reinsurer Converium, the target of a hostile bid by
French rival Scor, reported on Thursday a 145-percent increase in
first-quarter net profit to 150.9 million dollars (111 million
euros).


The net profit figure for the first three months of 2007 compared
with 61.6 million dollars during the equivalent period last year.


Converium chief executive Inga Beale said in a statement that the
result strengthened the management's opposition to the bid by
Scor for as long as it "undervalued" the business.


"We believe that our financial performance and the demonstrable
progress in pursuing our road map add further substance to our
claim that Scor's hostile offer undervalues Converium and its
medium-term prospects," she said.


"We are convinced that Converium's standalone prospects are more
promising than with Scor. In the interest of our shareholders, we
will continue to oppose Scor's unfriendly approach should it
remain unchanged," Beale added.


Gross premiums written during the first quarter of 2007 reached
711.8 million dollars, compared to 647 million dollars in the
same period last year.


Converium has urged its shareholders to reject the offer by Scor,
warning of a potential loss of up to 800 million dollars for the
company.


Scor is offering 0.5 of its own shares and four Swiss francs in
cash, for each Converium share, in a bid valued at 1.9 billion
euros (2.6 billion dollars).


The French group, which earlier this month described its offer as
"unsolicited but friendly", already holds 32.9 percent of its
Swiss peer.

