

A Malaysian firm and Saudi Arabia's Al Rajhi Bank have created
the world's first electronic funds transfer system to comply with
Islamic financial principles, company officials said Thursday.


Al Rajhi and e-Kencana, a Malaysian electronic service provider,
said they had collaborated on the system, known as the Islamic
Payment Switch (IPS), which will be ready by July.


Al Rajhi said its first application would see the issuing of a
prepaid or debit card to enable customers to transfer funds
between Malaysia and Saudi Arabia.


Al Rajhi Malaysia's chief executive, Ahmed Rehman, said the bank
will initially target some 100,000 Malaysians who travel to Mecca
every year to perform the holy pilgrimmage.


"This facility will begin from Malaysia to serve the rest of the
Muslim nations that have pilgrims travelling to Mecca and
Medina," Rehman said at the signing agreement between the two
companies.


"The IPS will be fully compliant to the highest sharia
standards," he said.


Islamic finance fuses principles of sharia, or Islamic law, and
modern banking.


According to sharia, the earning of interest is banned and there
should not be links to companies associated with tobacco, alcohol
or gambling considered taboo by Muslims.


Under the system, a pilgrim will be able to buy a prepaid card
for a set amount of money from Al Rajhi in Malaysia, and it can
then be used to withdraw funds from any of its 400 branches or
1,600 teller machines in Saudi Arabia.


Al Rajhi, the world's largest Islamic banking group, first set up
operations in Malaysia in 2005, where it has 12 branches and 47
teller machines.


Rehman said migrant workers could also use the system to transfer
funds from Saudi Arabia to Malaysia.


The system will be expanded to include other Islamic banks and to
cover other Muslim countries, Rehmad said, adding that the
payment interchange will have its hub in Malaysia.

