

Israel's parliamentary speaker Dalia Yitzik arrived in Jordan on
Thursday for talks with King Abdullah II on the Israeli-
Palestinian conflict, a palace official said.


The talks are the first to be held between the king and the
Israeli official, who is also acting president of the Jewish
state.


Yitzik, accompanied by 10 Knesset (parliament) members, arrived
by helicopter at the palace heliport.


On Wednesday, the Arab League announced that it had tasked Jordan
and Egypt with the job of persuading Israel to accept the Arab
peace initiative, reactivated at the Riyadh Arab summit in March.


"Egypt and Jordan, the two Arab parties which retrieved their
lands (from Israel), will undertake efforts to revive the Arab
peace initiative and facilitate direct negotiations," said a
league statement read out by Saudi Foreign Minister Saud al-
Faisal after a meeting of 13 Arab foreign ministers.


The two countries are the only Arab states to have signed peace
treaties with Israel and both have regular contacts with Israeli
officials.


The proposals offer Israel full normalisation of relations in
return for its withdrawal from all Arab land captured in 1967,
the creation of a Palestinian state and, in a key sticking point
for Israel, the return of Palestinian refugees.


The Knesset leader was later Thursday to hold talks with Jordan's
Prime Minister Maaruf Bakhit and Foreign Minister Abdel Ilah al-
Khatib, an official said.


She and her delegation will then visit Jordan's Nabatean
archaeological site of Petra before returning to Israel in the
evening.

