

A suicide bomber blew up a car in a Baghdad Shiite district
setting ablaze a nearby truck stocked with gas cylinders and
killing five people on Thursday, security officials said.


The blast occurred in the capital's central Jadiriyah district, a
majority Shiite inhabited area, officials said. Another 10 people
were wounded.


The latest attack against the capital's Shiite majority comes a
day after a wave of brutal car bombings slaughtered 190 people
and wounded scores.


The deadliest bomb attack on Wednesday was in the Sadriyah
marketplace that killed 140 people, making it the single
deadliest blast in Iraq since the 2003 US-led invasion.


A salvo of mortar rounds overnight also killed a young Iraqi
woman and two men in a mainly Shiite district of southern
Baghdad, a medical source said.


The shells smashed into the Zafaraniyah district, killing two men
and an 18 -year-old woman and wounding a six-year-old boy, the
medical official said.


The latest bout of bloodshed has dealt a hefty blow to a Iraqi-US
security plan in Baghdad imposed since February 14.


The defence ministry also announced on Thursday that Iraqi forces
had killed "20 terrorists and arrested 84 suspects" during
various operations in the capital and to the north of the city in
the past 24 hours.


In the central Shiite city of Kut, one police officer was shot
dead in an insurgent ambush near his home, said local police
spokesman Nahim Hassan.


Daily attacks on Shiite-populated areas and on the Shiite-
dominated Iraqi government security forces are trademark tactics
blamed on Sunni militants.

