

China must do a better job creating an attractive environment for
businesses, improving market access and law implementation, the
American Chamber of Commerce said Thursday.


"Growing US-China trade and commercial ties would further
strengthen if China enhanced market access, IPR (intellectual
property rights) enforcement and transparent implementation of
its laws," said the chamber.


In a white paper released Thursday, the chamber said China needed
to do more to live up to the World Trade Organisation's
fundamental principles of transparency, particularly in the law-
making area.


"Achieving full transparency in the formulation, enactment and
implementation of rules and regulations in China is regarded
widely ... as one area that remains substantially unfulfilled,"
said the paper.


It complained that when making laws as important and
controversial as the Enterprise Income Tax Law, the government
only provided a summary, rather than a complete draft, for public
comments.


The law, passed by China's parliament last month, unifies the
income tax domestic and foreign companies should pay at 25
percent, compared to the 15 percent paid by foreign companies and
33 percent by local firms.


The white paper also argued that although China generally has
robust laws and regulations on intellectual property protection,
uniform implementation and enforcement remain a challenge.


"China's legal dispute resolution and enforcement mechanisms
suffer from inconsistent application and lack of effective
deterrent penalties," it said, adding victims have to wait for
years to secure redress of wrongs as a result.


According to estimates from domestic laws firms, implementation
of remedies represent less than 30 percent of judgements
rendered, the paper added.


It also said that market access barriers such as standards
policies and import procedures that have turned into de facto
import licensing are still an irritant for US companies.

