

Scientists identified a tiny molecule aiding the immune system of
mice which may also play a key role in protecting humans from
disease, a study published Thursday in the United States shows.


Laboratory mice in which the so-called microRNA molecule was
neutralized -- or "knocked out" -- became less able to resist
infection by bacteria such as salmonella, said a summary report
of the study.


"These findings ... will lead immunologists to rethink how the
immune system works," said one of the scientists involved in the
study, Martin Turner of the Babraham Institute in Cambridge,
England.


In mice the molecule, which helps regulate DNA genes, "acts as a
lynchpin to balance the response of immune defenses and the
researchers suggest the corresponding human gene will have a
similar vital role," the report said.


The study was led by the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, also in
Cambridge, and is to be published in Friday's edition of the
magazine Science.


Some of the mice who had their microRNA neutralized developed
changes to lung tissue and scarring that resembled immune
disorders in humans.


"Showing that knocking out a microRNA has such dramatic effects
opens new doors to understanding this novel class of gene
regulation, with consequences for human health and disease," the
institute's director Allan Bradley in the report.


It said that microRNA molecules are being examined as possible
treatments for eye disease, leukemia and preeclampsia, a
hypertension disorder that can affect pregnant women.


Previous research shows they may be able to help stop the
development of certain types of cancer.

