

The euro on Thursday struck a new record high against the yen and
again came close to beating its dollar pinnacle on optimism about
growth prospects for the 13-nation eurozone, dealers said.


The euro struck 162.55 yen in European trade early on Thursday,
its highest level against the Japanese currency, on expectations
that strong growth would lead to further interest rate rises for
the eurozone.


The European single currency also reached just shy of its record
high against the US unit, striking 1.3654 dollars, before
recoiling slightly.


On Wednesday the single currency scaled a more than two-year peak
of 1.3665 dollars, almost touching its December 30, 2004 record
high of 1.3666.


"It seems we may have to wait for Friday's US GDP figure to see a
clear break of the euro-dollar high, considering the relatively
empty economic calendar today," Commerzbank currency strategist
Gavin Friend said.


The euro meanwhile hit a new pinnacle against the yen, as the
market braced for a series of economic reports on Friday
including Japanese unemployment, consumer prices and industrial
output, as well as the Bank of Japan's economic outlook report.


In the United States, key US gross domestic product (GDP) figures
for the first quarter were also due Friday.


"Friday's US GDP report for the first quarter where GDP growth is
expected to have slowed to 1.8 percent from 2.5 percent will be
key to whether the dollar continues to trend lower in the short-
term," National Australia Bank currency strategist John
Kyriakopoulos wrote in a note to clients.


Players have driven the euro higher on growing expectations of
further interest rate rises by the European Central Bank, with
many economists forecasting a quarter point hike to 4.00 percent
in June.


That would make eurozone assets even more attractive, enticing
investors to change other currencies into the euro.


Elsewhere, market rumours that Britain's biggest bank HSBC is
having to buy up to 5.0 billion pounds in dollars to meet its
dividend commitments, briefly pushed sterling further above 2.0
dollars on Thursday, dealers said.


HSBC, which accounts in dollars, was due to announce its
quarterly dividend payment to shareholders next Monday. But
British shareholders must take it in sterling, meaning the bank
has to buy a significant sum of pounds with dollars.


"There are rumours that it could be as much as 5.0 billion pounds
but we think this is way off the mark," said Paul Bednarczyk,
currency strategist at 4CAST.


The euro changed hands at 1.3615 dollars, against 1.3636 dollars
late Wednesday, 162.34 yen (161.92), 0.6815 pounds (0.6808) and
1.6425 Swiss francs (1.6428).


The dollar stood at 119.23 yen (118.72) and 1.2066 Swiss francs
(1.2044).


The pound was being traded at 1.9978 dollars (2.0014).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold increased to
686.60 dollars per ounce, from 684.00 dollars late on Wednesday.

