

NATO Secretary General Jaap de Hoop Scheffer affirmed Thursday
the alliance's commitment to a Cold War-era arms treaty limiting
military forces in Europe, after Russia threatened to abandon it.


"NATO allies attach great importance to the adapted Conventional
Forces in Europe (CFE) treaty and its ratification," he told
reporters in Olso, ahead of informal talks between alliance
foreign ministers.


The treaty was signed in 1990 by the countries of the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and the former Warsaw Pact.


It was adapted in Istanbul in 1999 following the collapse of the
Warsaw Pact and the enlargement of NATO, but NATO states have not
yet ratified the new pact, arguing that Russia must first
withdraw troops from Georgia and Moldova.


"We also know that there are still a number of hurdles in the way
called the Istanbul commitments," noted Scheffer, before talks
later Thursday in the so- called NATO-Russia Council with Russian
Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov.


In a state of the nation address earlier, Russian President
Vladimir Putin said: "It would be appropriate to announce a
moratorium on Russian adherence to this treaty until it has been
ratified by all NATO countries."


"I suggest this issue be raised in the Russia-NATO Council and,
in the event there is no progress in negotiation, that we
consider terminating our obligations under the CFE," he said.


Scheffer said: "This is a subject that will, without any doubt,
be discussed. I expect Sergei Lavrov later this afternoon to
explain the words of his president."


Putin's threat brings new tensions to NATO-Russia relations.


Ties have been strained over US plans to extend its missile
shield into former Soviet satellite states and the chance that
Russia might veto a plan to give supervised independence to
Kosovo, where NATO has 17,000 troops based.

