

Taiwan said Thursday it would conditionally welcome the Olympic
torch to the island hours before the International Olympic
Committee was due to announce the relay route following
negotiations between Taipei and Beijing.


Taiwanese authorities had demanded that the island be included on
the international route rather than as part of China's domestic
relay which they feel would imply the island was part of China,
as Beijing insists.


"As an IOC member, we certainly welcome the Olympic torch.
Hosting such a relay would be our honour," said Wu Chin-tsai, an
official with the cabinet-level National Council on Physical
Fitness and Sports.


"However, our national interest must be upheld."


Liu Teh-hsun, deputy chairman of Taiwan's China policy decision-
making body, Mainland Affairs Council, however reiterated his
stance that Beijing must not include the island on China's
domestic relay route.


Such an arrangement would imply that Taiwan is part of China, Liu
said.


Taiwanese authorities have demanded that the torch relay for the
Beijing 2008 Games must arrive and depart the island via a third
country, a decision aimed to highlight Taiwan's sovereignty
independent of China.


The IOC was due to reveal the torch design and relay route from
Greece to Beijing later Thursday.


Earlier in the week, Wang Wei, the vice president of the Beijing
Games organising committee, told reporters that Taiwan had agreed
with China to host a leg of the Olympic torch relay, but his
remarks were denied by Liu.


China and Taiwan have been ruled separately since they split in
1949 at the end of a civil war but Beijing maintains the island
is a part of its territory awaiting reunification.

