

A male stripper in Scotland has been charged with impersonating a
policeman after real officers mistook him for one of their own,
he said Thursday.


Stuart Kennedy, 24, was dressed in his fake uniform outside a bar
in Aberdeen, north-east Scotland, when he was spotted by two
female plain-clothes officers from Grampian Police.


The genetics student at Aberdeen University -- whose stage name
is "Eros" -- told them he was a stripper and the officers then
watched him perform at the city's Paramount venue before taking
him in for questioning.


His outfit and props were confiscated and he was later charged
with impersonating an officer and carrying an offensive weapon,
he told the Scottish Press Association news agency.


He has yet to discover whether the case will come to court -- and
said he faces problems with show bookings as his uniform has
still not been returned.


"I immediately told the officers I was a stripper but they didn't
seem to believe me. They watched the show then they asked me back
to the station. Now I have to wait to find out if this is going
any further," he said.


"I just don't think this is in the public interest at all. The
legislation isn't designed with this in mind. It's not supposed
to stop entertainers.


"It's a good thing they don't film (the British television police
drama) 'The Bill' up in Aberdeen or there would be trouble."


Grampian Police confirmed that a 24-year-old man was charged in
connection with wearing a police uniform and equipment in a
public place on March 17 and that a report had been sent to
prosecutors.


"As this is now a live inquiry we cannot make any further comment
on this incident," a spokesman said.

