

Doctors in eastern France said Thursday they had carried out the
world's first "no-scar" surgery, using hi-tech instruments to
remove the gallbladder of a 30 -year-old patient via her vagina.


The operation breaks new ground in minimally invasive surgery, a
technique designed to boost post-operative recovery and avoid the
emotional impact of scars, lead doctor Jacques Marescaux told
AFP.


His team used a long, flexible tube, called an endoscope, that
was equipped with a tiny video camera and minute instruments for
snipping tissue and clipping blood vessels.


The endoscope, guided by the surgeons via a computer screen, was
introduced into the abdominal cavity through an incision in the
vaginal wall.


The only "invasion" to the abdomen was a 2mm needle, also
equipped with a camera, which provided a second view of the
operation and also pumped a harmless gas to inflate the abdominal
cavity and thus create a space for the endoscope head to work.


The surgery, carried out at Strasbourg University Hospitals on
April 2, was baptised "Operation Anubis," a god in Egyptian
mythology. Anubis restored life through mummification, using
long, flexible instruments.


The operation is the culmination of a three-year, 7.2-million-
euro (9.5-million- dollar) research project, Marescaux said.


The patient, who had been suffering from gallstones, experienced
no pain after the surgery but was kept in hospital for two days
as a precaution.


US surgeons at New York's Columbia University last month cleared
a key technical hurdle by carrying out gallbladder removal by
inserting instruments vaginally and through the abdomen.


This was a major step forward compared with conventional surgery,
although still not without post-operative risk, as abdominal
incisions can lead to infection and hernia, said Marescaux.

