

Chinese share prices closed 1.04 percent higher Thursday in
another record performance made on the back of continued fund
inflows and a strenghtening yuan, dealers said.


They said a firmer yuan and expectations of solid gains in
Friday's dual Shanghai and Hong Kong listing of China's CITIC
bank, the nation's seventh largest lender, helped buoy sentiment.


It was the turn of property and tourism stocks to find support
while volumes continued heavy but somewhat lighter than of late
as investors looked ahead to the long Labour Day holiday next
week.


The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index, which covers both A- and
B-shares, rose 39.10 points at 3,783.06 on turnover of 142.17
billion yuan (18.39 billion dollars). This was the fourth
consecutive record finish this week.


The Shanghai A-share Index was up 40.73 points or 1.04 percent at
3,975.68 on turnover of 141.10 billion yuan and the Shenzhen
A-share Index added 14.99 points or 1.37 percent at 1,108.03,
also a record, on turnover of 77.81 billion yuan.


"The market was encouraged by the strength in the yuan and gains
on Wall Street overnight but the fall in turnover indicated some
caution ahead of the long vacation (next week)," said Feng Jin,
an analyst at Sanyuan Consulting.


"Many investors are confident about the debut performance by
CITIC Bank and started to build positions in advance," Zhang Yi,
an analyst at Yibang Investment, said.


CITIC Bank said it will list simultaneously in Shanghai and Hong
Kong tomorrow after selling 2.302 billion A-shares in Shanghai at
5.8 yuan per share and 4.885 billion H-shares in Hong Kong at
5.86 Hong Kong dollars apiece.


Property developers were boosted by the strength in the yuan,
with Shenzhen Properties Resources Development (Group) up 0.51
yuan or 5.0 percent at 10.71.


Tourism stocks got a traditional boost as investors looked on
them to do well during next week's holiday, dealers said.


Shenzhen Century Plaza Hotel was up by its 10 percent daily limit
at 8.11 yuan while Guangzhou Dong Fang Hotel also rose by its 10
percent limit at 9.79 yuan.


Shenzhen Development Bank was up 1.24 yuan or 5.02 percent at
25.95 after first quarter net profit rose 129 percent year-on-
year to 535 million yuan.


Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC) was flat at 5.53
yuan.


Some steelmakers were under pressure from profit-taking, dealers
said.


Bengang Steel Plates was down 0.52 yuan or 3.66 percent at 13.68
and Laiwu Steel Corp lost 0.40 yuan or 2.15 percent at 18.23.


The Shanghai B-share Index rose 5.13 points or 2.46 percent to
213.62 on turnover of 1.07 billion US dollars and the Shenzhen
B-share Index was up 9.73 points or 1.69 percent at 586.07,
another record, on turnover of 1.06 billion Hong Kong dollars
(137.13 million US dollars).

