

Australian flag-carrier Qantas confirmed Wednesday it had signed
an agreement to buy a 30 percent stake in Vietnam's Pacific
Airlines, ending months of speculation about the deal.


Qantas chief financial officer Peter Gregg said the Australian
airline would help Pacific develop a business plan to re-position
itself as a low-cost carrier both internationally and within
Vietnam.


He said that under the deal, Pacific would "harmonise" its
operations with Qantas's discount offshoot, Jetstar.


"This will be an important investment for the Qantas Group,
supporting Jetstar's growth strategy and enabling us to extend
our reach in Southeast Asia, where we have been actively
exploring opportunities," Gregg said in a statement.


He did not reveal the value of the 30 percent stake -- the
maximum allowed under Vietnam's foreign investment rules -- which
the Australian Financial Review this week estimated would cost 50
million dollars (41.5 million US).


Vietnam's State Capital Investment Corporation (SCIC), the main
shareholder in Pacific Airlines, said in the statement that it
chose Qantas because it was one of the best airlines in the
world.


"In particular, Qantas had developed Jetstar into one of the most
successful low-cost carriers in Asia," SCIC chairwoman Le Thi
Bang Tam said.


Gregg said Qantas would be actively involved in managing Pacific
Airlines through board representation and executive appointments.


Qantas confirmed in January that it was engaged in talks on
buying a stake in the Ho Chi Minh City-based airline.


The Financial Review reported this week that the private
consortium bidding to take over Qantas had approved the deal.


The Qantas announcement was made after the Australian Stock
Exchange closed, with the airline's shares closing down 0.01 at
5.35 dollars in a rising overall market.

