

Poland's first post-communist prime minister Tadeusz Mazowiecki
refused on Thursday to comply with a new law that penalises
anyone who worked with the country's communist-era secret police.


"This is an attempt to humiliate people... and I'm not sure that
I am under any obligation to fill in this form," the 80-year-old
Mazowiecki said after receiving a vetting form from the office of
President Lech Kaczynski.


Mazowiecki, quoted by the Poland's PAP news agency, joins leading
Polish member of the european parliament, Bronislaw Geremek, in
defying the new law passed by Poland's ruling conservatives last
month.


Geremek, a founding member of the Solidarity trade union in the
1980s and former foreign minister of Poland, said the so-called
lustration law, pushed by President Kaczynski and his twin
brother, Prime Minister Jaroslaw Kaczynski, is "creating an
Orwellian-style ministry of truth" in Poland.


The new law extended existing rules which previously affected
only lawmakers, government ministers and judges, or around 30,000
of Poland's 38 million people.


Now the dragnet takes in academics, journalists, managers of
state-owned firms, school principals, diplomats and lawyers,
affecting nearly three-quarters of a million Poles.


Each is required to file a declaration saying whether or not they
collaborated with the communist-era secret police, on pain of
losing their jobs.


The sworn declarations are checked by the National Remembrance
Institute (IPN). Earlier this month the IPN charged former Polish
president, General Wojciech Jaruzelski, with "communist crimes"
for declaring martial law in 1981.


Anyone filing a false declaration risks being barred from their
profession for 10 years. Refusal to fill in a form could cost the
individual their job.

