

Moves in the US Congress to demand a timetable for military
withdrawal from Iraq brought mixed reviews from Iraqi members of
parliament, some of whom doubted the government's ability to meet
US demands for faster political reconciliation.


"The United States is thus admitting it was defeated in Iraq and
must withdraw. This should be attributed to the effort and
patience of Iraqis," said Saleh Hassan Issa al-Igaili, an MP
loyal to Shiite radical leader Moqtada al-Sadr.


Mahmud Othman, a Kurdish MP, was philosophical about the decision
by the Democrats who control Congress: "They have to abide by
public opinion. They are preparing the ground for the next
election and that is normal in a democracy."


US Democrats have argued that the proposed withdrawal timetable
would prod Iraq's leaders towards political reconciliation,
specifically the passage of an equitable oil law and the return
of former Baathists to public life.


The House of Representatives approved the bill on Wednesday and
the Senate was expected to follow suit in a vote later Thursday.


But President George W. Bush has vowed to veto the draft
legislation, which would order a pullout of US forces from Iraq
to begin from as early as October, and in Baghdad many Iraqi
politicians remained sceptical.


"After four years, these things have become much more difficult
and our problems are much more complicated," Othman said. "So I
don't expect these things to be done as fast as the Americans
want."


Others saw the legislative wrangling in the United States as a
purely domestic matter. "It's for local consumption" said Omar
Abdul-Sattar Mahmud, a Sunni MP from the Iraqi Islamic Party.


"However they agree or disagree is their business, not that of
the Iraqis," he said. "What we are concerned with is that there
should be real national reconciliation to break the
sectarianism."

