

In yet another legal victory for Nigeria's Vice President Atiku
Abubakar in recent weeks, the code of conduct tribunal has
dropped corruption charges against him, officials said Thursday.


Abubakar was cleared to contest last Saturday's presidential
election at the 11th hour by the Supreme Court after the
electoral commission INEC had disqualified him over an alleged
corruption claim.


In a ruling on Wednesday, tribunal chairman Justice Constance
Momoh said Abubakar could not be tried because of his immmunity
from prosecution under the constitution.


"There is a clear and unambiguous declaration by the court of
appeal that the tribunal cannot hear and determine cases of
contravention of the code of conduct against the vice president
while in office," he added.


The vice president, former ally turned rival of President
Olusegun Obasanjo, had been accused of misappropriating part of
the money belonging to a petroleum development fund under his
supervision in the world's sixth oil exporting nation.


Lagos state governor Bola Tinubu, an ally of the vice president,
is standing trial before the tribunal for allegedly operating 10
foreign accounts in Britain and the United States contrary to his
oath of office.


Millions of dollars in state funds are believed to have been
stolen from government treasury by officials in the past.


But many of the looters, especially governors, escape prosecution
because of constitutional immunity.


Under the country's 1999 constitution, the president, his deputy,
governors and their deputy cannot be arrested or prosecuted while
in office.

