

A top cleric and ex-presidential challenger has issued an unusual
public warning over the state of Iran's economy and political
disunity which he said was threatening the tenets of the Islamic
revolution.


Ali Akbar Nateq Nuri, an advisor to supreme leader Ayatollah Ali
Khamenei, expressed concerns that money supply growth and
factional political bickering in the Islamic republic were
spiralling out of control.


"If no economic plan is presented for the country, even if a
barrel of oil costs 200 dollars, we will simply be faced with an
increase in liquidity resulting in high prices and inflation,"
said Nateq Nuri, according to the ISNA news agency.


"There is a flood of liquidity in society. Wherever it appears it
destroys," Nateq Nuri was quoted as telling a group of 100 MPs.


Nateq Nuri was the conservative candidate who was heavily beaten
by Mohammad Khatami when the reformist won Iran's presidential
elections by a landslide in 1997.


Always close to Khamenei, he is now increasingly seen as a
pragmatist but rarely spells out his views in public. It is rare
in Iran for a man of his prominence to issue such explicit
warnings over the state of the country.


He took aim at mounting political tribalism, especially
disagreements between President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and
parliament which were was endangering the country's annual slogan
of "national unity and Islamic cohesion".


"This is an immediate necessity for today and will not be
achieved unless we pay more attention to our common ground rather
than our differences," he said.


He warned Iran's disparate collection of reformists,
conservatives and hardliners that "the four pillars (of the
Islamic republic): Islam, revolution, Imam and supreme leader
should be the basis of cooperation."

