

Barcelona's Argentine forward Javier Saviola is set to defect to
arch-enemies Real Madrid, sports newspaper Marca said on
Thursday.


The 25-year-old has agreed to join the nine-time European
champions having not received any firm offers on a contract
renewal at Barca, according to Marca.


Saviola had been told at the beginning of the season by coach
Frank Rijkaard that he was surplus to requirements at Barca and
should look for another club.


But an injury crisis in attack forced the Dutch coach to recall
his diminutive striker and Saviola responded admirably, turning
in some impressive displays.


But since star strikers Samuel Eto'o and Ronaldinho have returned
to fitness, Saviola has again found himself out on the sidelines.


Real and Barca refused to comment on the reports but Marca
claimed that the capital club had pulled off a transfer coup as
Saviola will be out of contract at the end of the season and will
cost nothing.


The last player to move from Barcelona to Real was Portuguese
winger Luis Figo (now at Inter Milan) and his transfer caused
much controversy.


Afterwards the two clubs came to an agreement not to poach each
other's players in the future as such moves incensed their fans.


Meanwhile, Marca also claimed that Valencia striker David Villa
is set to join Juventus next season, despite interest from
Chelsea.


Marca said Juve are expecting to lose French striker David
Trezeguet, despite his insistence recently that he will stay with
the club who will almost certainly play in the Italian top flight
next season, and will replace him with Villa.


English newspaper The Sun had claimed on Tuesday that the 25
-year-old Spanish international would join Chelsea for 45 million
pounds (about 67.5 million euros).


The Spanish press has reported that Valencia would be willing to
accept a 70 million euros for Villa.


"If the Chelsea offer suited us, we would not be able to refuse
it," Valencia were quoted as saying according to As newspaper.

