

Bayern Munich's drive for a Champions League place suffered a
massive blow on Thursday with the news German international
striker Lukas Podolski is out for six months.


The 21-year-old needs an operation to repair his injured left
knee and will miss his side's final four Bundesliga matches as
the German giants attempt to avoid missing out on a Champions
League place for the first time in 11 years.


"Lukas has damaged the cartilage in his left knee and will have
an operation on Thursday and will be out for the next six
months," it was announced on Bayern's website on Thursday.


"Poldi will make his comeback at the start of the 2007-08
season."


Podolski, who was voted the best young player of the 2006 World
Cup and has scored 22 goals in 38 internationals, will also miss
Germany's Euro 2008 qualifiers against San Marino and Slovakia in
June.


Germany's coach Joachim Loew was disappointed by the news and
will be looking for a new striking partner alongside Schalke 04's
Kevin Kuranyi.


"Lukas told me on Wednesday night," said Loew.


"This is a great shame for him personally, of course, but also
for the national team, because we will miss Lukas for the
European qualifiers.


"I wish him a quick recovery and hope that he is fit at the
beginning of the new season again."


Despite being a first-choice striker for Loew, Podolski has
failed to live up to expectations since joining Bayern at the
start of the season from Cologne - scoring just four goals in 22
games.


Bayern are fourth in the Bundesliga and five points adrift of the
Champions League qualification spots.

