

Qatar has raised its stake in J Sainsbury to over 17.0 percent,
making it the main shareholder of Britain's third biggest
supermarket group, according to a fund representing the Middle
East state.


Qatari investment fund Delta Limited said it had on Wednesday
bought more than 302 million shares in J Sainsbury, which is
equal to 17.41 percent in the issued share capital of the
company.


"Together with the interest of 300,000 shares in the company held
by his excellency Sheikh Hamad bin Jassem bin Jabr al-Thani, who
is deemed to be acting in concert with Delta, Delta (now) has an
interest in 302,313,241 shares in the company.


"This equates to an interest of 17.424 percent in the issued
share capital of the company." Jabr al-Thani is prime minister of
Qatar.


Earlier this month private equity groups Blackstone, CVC and
Texas Pacific Group abandoned their consortium takeover plans for
J Sainsbury.


According to newspaper reports, the consortium had increased its
informal bid for Sainsbury to 582 pence per share.


That would have valued the group at about 10.1 billion pounds
(14.9 billion euros, 19.9 billion dollars).


However, media reports suggested the proposed offer price had
failed to win over the Sainsbury family -- which held an 18
percent stake and was reportedly holding out for 600 pence per
share.


The share price in Sainsbury rebounded on news of Qatar's new
investment, standing up 0.18 percent at 569.00 pence on London's
leading FTSE 100 index.


Sainsbury employs 155,000 staff and has 769 supermarket branches
across Britain.


The supermarket chain is the third largest in the country after
sector leader Tesco and number two Asda, which is owned by US
giant Wal-Mart.

