

Syria's ruling National Progressive Front romped to victory
Thursday in parliamentary elections in which the only challenge
came from independents.


The front, which is dominated by the Baath party of President
Bashar al-Assad, took 172 seats, five more than the 167 reserved
for it under the constitution, according to official results
announced by Interior Minister Bassam Abdel Majid.


The other 78 seats up for grabs in the weekend's two-day
elections went to independents amid a boycott by the only
tolerated opposition bloc.


The front has won every election since its formation in 1973. The
Baath party has ruled Syria under a state of emergency ever since
it seized power in 1963.


In the outgoing parliament, the front held only its minimum
reserved quota of 167 seats.


On the twin polling days Sunday and Monday, AFP correspondents
saw only small numbers of voters in the polling stations they
visited in the capital.


But Abdel Majid said turnout reached 56.12 percent of registered
voters.


He said that of the nearly 12 million Syrians of voting age, a
little over 7.4 million had registered and nearly 4.16 million
turned out.


"The new People's Assembly includes 180 new members and 70 who
have been relected," he said, adding that there were also 30
women members of the new parliament.


Prime Minister Naji Otri won re-election in the second city of
Aleppo.


In the capital, leading businessman Mohammed Hamcho won election
as did moderate Islamist Mohammed Habash.


The parliamentary elections were the second since Assad succeeded
his late father Hafez in July 2000.

