

Japanese computer maker Fujitsu said Thursday its net profit rose
by nearly 50 percent to a record high in the past year thanks to
stronger sales both at home and overseas.


"A solid performance in our IT services business and in overseas
markets enabled us to deliver higher sales and profits," Hiroaki
Kurokawa, president of Fujitsu Ltd., said in a statement.


Fujitsu said its net profit came to 102 billion yen (860 million
dollars) for the year to March, up 49.4 percent. This was the
first record net profit in 22 years.


However, the company said it fell short of its initial operating
income targets due to severe price competition.


Revenue rose 6.4 percent to 5.1 trillion yen but operating profit
increased only a slight 0.3 percent to 182 billion yen.


Fujitsu posted particularly strong growth in overseas sales in
the services segment, with a gain of 23.9 percent.


"Higher sales in the company's main business areas and continued
progress in manufacturing innovation and cost reduction
initiatives helped offset severe pricing pressure in businesses
including telecommunications equipment, servers, personal
computers and hard disk drives," the statement said.


The computer maker also enjoyed a one-time gain of 77.3 billion
yen after it sold a portion of shares in affiliate Fanuc Ltd, as
well as from the initial public offering of Fujitsu's internet
service provider subsidiary Nifty Corp.


Fujitsu anticipates its sales will rise 5.9 percent in the
current fiscal year and operating profit will rise 4.3 percent to
190 billion yen.


But the company expects it net profit to fall 26.8 percent to 75
billion yen as it will not have the one-time gains from the past
year.

