

The Indian unit of global engineering group ABB said Thursday
first-quarter profit surged 69 percent on the back of the South
Asian giant's rapid economic expansion.


Net income rose to 866 million rupees (21.2 million dollars) in
the quarter ended March 31 compared with the same period last
year, said the Bangalore-based unit that benefited from record
orders from power utilities and cement, steel and paper makers.


Sales jumped 62 percent to 13.2 billion rupees and orders rose to
an all-time high of 20.3 billion rupees.


The backlog of orders reached 45.3 billion rupees, up from 26.6
billion rupees a year earlier.


"Our strong order intake is promising," Ravi Uppal, vice chairman
and managing director of the Indian subsidiary of the Swiss-
Swedish group, said in a statement.


"India's power imperative is driving capacity enhancement and
also bringing home the advantage of leveraging technology for
improving efficiency and reliability in transmission and
distribution.


"Meanwhile Indian industry continues to scale up, at the same
time increasing its focus on improving efficiency, productivity
and quality," added Uppal.


ABB India maintained the momentum that made the country the
multinational's fastest growing market last year, overtaking
China, after record profit, sales and orders.


Economic expansion of nine percent a year has prompted India to
invest more in deficient infrastructure such as electricity
utilities and irrigation facilities.


ABB expects the market to expand faster as the Indian government
and industry step up investment.


The company expects Indian investments of 200 billion dollars in
the power sector, 130 billion dollars in steel and 13 billion
dollars in aluminium by the year 2012.


That will drive demand for ABB's products and services although
interest rates have risen and banks tightened credit, which may
force some companies to put planned investments on hold,
according to ABB officials.

