

Europe's main stock markets gained ground in opening deals on
Thursday after a record overnight showing on Wall Street, and
following another batch of positive earnings news.


In late morning deals, London's FTSE 100 index of leading shares
gained 0.34 percent to 6,483.60 points.


Frankfurt's DAX 30 added 0.67 percent to 7,392.56 points in early
afternoon trade and the Paris CAC 40 increased 0.13 percent to
5,954.88.


The euro stood at 1.3612 dollars.


The US Dow Jones Industrial Average share index had struck a
record peak on Wednesday, vaulting the 13,000-point barrier for
the first ever time as investors cheered ballooning corporate
profits, dealers said.


The Dow rocketed by 1.05 percent to a close of 13,089.89 points
in frenzied trading as bullish investors propelled the index to
new heights.


Japanese share prices jumped higher on Thursday as Tokyo
investors also took their lead from Wall Street.


In Frankfurt, Commerzbank stock soared 2.27 percent to 36.89
euros, after Germany's second-largest bank released ahead of
schedule preliminary first- quarter key figures that beat
analysts' expectations.


In Paris, France Telecom jumped 2.86 percent to 21.56 euros after
the telecommunications operator posted solid first-quarter sales
that were also ahead of consensus estimates.


Elsewhere in the banking sector, ABN Amro shares climbed 0.80
percent to 36.50 euros in Amsterdam as the Dutch bank opened up
its books to a Royal Bank of Scotland-led consortium, which had
made an informal proposal to take over the group on Wednesday.


ABN Amro signalled Thursday a shift in its stance over the sale
of a key US asset, LaSalle bank, which was already included in an
agreed deal with Barclays.


In London trade, RBS shares slid 1.01 percent to 1,976 pence and
Barclays sagged 0.35 percent to 721.50 pence.


In US deals on Wednesday, the tech-rich Nasdaq composite had
closed up a robust 0.92 percent at 2,547.89 while the broad-
market Standard and Poor's 500 index finished up a heady 1.01
percent at 1,495.42 points.


The Nasdaq rose to its best close since February 2001 while the
SP index finished at its highest level since April 2000.


Wall Street analysts said the 13,000-point mark was a
psychological milestone for the Dow and would likely help cement
market optimism despite concerns about US economic growth and a
widespread housing slump.


In Asia on Thursday, the Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index
of leading shares soared 1.12 percent to close at 17,429.17
points. Hong Kong's key Hang Seng Index closed up 0.64 percent at
20,667.29.

