

Banks increased cross-border lending business by 18 percent in
the last quarter of 2006 to 26.09 trillion dollars (19.1 trillion
euros), the Bank for International Settlements said on Thursday.


Loans to borrowers in industrialized countries accounted for
nearly three- quarters of the expansion, and use of the British
pound for such transactions surged.


Cross-border lending to borrowers in the United States rose by 30
percent, in Britain by 18 percent and in Spain by eight percent,
the BIS said in preliminary banking statistics for the last three
months of 2006.


Claims on Japan and Switzerland declined by four percent during
the period, it added.


By currency, overall bank asset and lending growth abroad during
the period was dominated by the British pound, which accelerated
by 27 percent year-on year.


Foreign bank claims in emerging markets accounted for 19 percent
of the global growth with an increase of 286 billion dollars,
about half of it for east European countries like new EU member
Romania, or Russia and Turkey.


French and German banks reported the biggest increase in overall
foreign-held claims, of 220 billion and 215 billion dollars
respectively, followed by Swiss- based (115 billion dollars),
Japanese (94 billion dollars) and Belgian banks (84 billion
dollars).


The BIS reported a "noticeable pickup" in lending to offshore
centres in the last three months of 2006 following an earlier
slowdown, amounting to 92 billion dollars, the largest increase
since September 2004.


The data on international financial claims and liabilities is
based on commercial banking activity by head offices in at least
30 reporting countries.

