

US President George W. Bush and British Prime Minister Tony Blair
should have prayed together before deciding whether to invade
Iraq, the leader of the world's Anglicans said.


Both devout Christians, if they had prayed to God together about
the war, they may well have found a different answer from the one
they wanted, Archbishop of Canterbury Rowan Williams said
Wednesday.


Blair has said that the pair did not pray together in the build-
up to the March 2003 US-led invasion.


"I think prime ministers as individuals ought to 'do God',
because I think everybody ought to," Church of England leader
Williams told BBC television.


"I don't expect government to be talking religion. I do expect
government to be giving space and opportunity for the kind of
moral discussion informed by religion, as by many other strands
of humanistic thought."


Williams said he did not think Blair's Christianity caused unease
among voters, except in the context of the war in Iraq, when some
thought the prime minister was adhering to Bush's "rather
crusading attitude."


"Suddenly, his religious convictions became awkward and
embarrassing to him and embarrassing to everybody," he said.


"I think perhaps he should have prayed with George Bush.


"Praying doesn't mean you get the answer you want. It doesn't
mean you get the answer the other person wants either."


Williams disagreed with Blair's belief that he was doing the
right thing morally in removing Iraqi president Saddam Hussein
from power by force.


"I fully respect his conviction and sincerity about that, though
I don't agree with his conclusion," he said.


The Church of England is the established church in the country
and archbishops of Canterbury are chosen by the prime minister in
the name of the sovereign, the supreme governor of the church.

