

Two pandas sent to Hong Kong as gifts to mark the tenth
anniversary of the former British colony's handover to China
arrived in the territory on Thursday to a celebrity welcome.


"Let's raise the glass to welcome the pandas ... I hope they
would be happy here," Hong Kong Home Affairs Secretary Patrick Ho
said at a ceremony to welcome the animals.


The 20-month-old cubs, each weighing about 60 kilogrammes (132
pounds), were christened Le Le, which means happiness, and Ying
Ying, which stands for graceful and abundance.


The names were chosen through a competition that attracted 7,600
entries. The cubs were earlier known only as 606 and 610.


Some planes were diverted from Hong Kong airport to ensure the
roar of jets did not scare the cubs, who arrived at the cargo
terminal.


Police escorted the pandas to Ocean Park, a marine and amusement
park, where they will live before being unveiled to the public on
July 1, the date of the tenth anniversary.


The cubs arrived after a three-hour truck and plane trip from
their home in southwest China's Sichuan province.


The animals travelled in especially designed cages and flew with
an entourage of five handlers on a plane equipped to accommodate
them, China's Xinhua news agency reported.


Television images showed police vans escorting the truck carrying
the bears to the Chinese airport of Chengdu, where they were fed
water and then placed on the plane.


There were vets on board to give them constant health checks, the
television reports said.


The giant panda, China's most endearing symbol, is one of the
world's most endangered species.


Ocean Park is already home to the pandas An An and Jia Jia. They
arrived in 1999, two years after Hong Kong was handed to China
following nearly 150 years of British colonial rule.

