

Dubai-based carrier Emirates is planning to order more Airbus
A380 superjumbos despite the delay in delivery of the aircraft,
for which it is the principal client, its chairman said Thursday.


"Actually, we are planning to buy more," of the A380 long-haul
aircraft, chairman and chief executive Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed al-
Maktoum told reporters when asked if Emirates was considering
cancelling part of its order in light of the repeated delays in
delivery.


He said the airline had reached agreement with Airbus on
compensation for the delayed delivery of the 43 jets already
ordered -- the biggest single order for the A380.


"Different compensations we are working at. Everything has been
agreed about with Airbus, but don't ask about the figure."


Maktoum acknowledged that the expansion plans of the Middle
East's fastest growing carrier had been affected by the delay in
bringing the A380s into service.


The first aircraft is now scheduled to be delivered by August
2008, he said, adding that the airline had expected to have 18 of
the A380s delivered by that time.


Emirates was the first company publicly to seek compensation for
delivery delays for what will be the world's largest civilian
airliner.


The British newspaper The Observer reported in early October that
Emirates had sought 223 million euros (290 million dollars) from
Airbus after the manufacturer announced its third delivery delay
since September 2005.


The carrier, which boasts a 102-strong fleet and an order list of
107 aircraft, had expected to receive its first aircraft by
October this year.

