

Hong Kong share prices closed 0.64 percent higher Thursday as
investors cheered a record performance on Wall Street overnight
and further gains on the mainland's A-share markets, dealers
said.


They said the index came off the day's highs due to some profit-
taking in late trade.


The Hang Seng Index closed up 130.51 points at 20,667.29, off a
low of 20,651.29 and a high of 20,778.44. Turnover was 51.80
billion Hong Kong dollars (6.64 billion US).


China Molybdenum was in focus as it posted strong gains on its
trading debut.


"The upside driven by a record Wall Street close was capped in
late trade due to profit-taking in select blue chips like China
Mobile as investors turned a bit cautious ahead of futures
settlement tomorrow and the long holiday in China," said Jackson
Wong, investment manager at Tanrich Securities.


Wall Street hit a new record overnight as the Dow Jones
Industrial Average breached the 13,000 points level for the first
time ever.


Wong said that investors are likely to step up profit-taking on
Friday ahead of the golden week holidays in China next week.


"Investors would like to sell before the long holiday in China as
they are worried that the Chinese government will announce
austerity measures next week," he said, referring to posible
credit-tightening measures.


China's stockmarkets will be shut May 1-7 in an extended break
following Labor day.


China Mobile closed down 0.05 at 72.95, reversing early gains,
while HSBC was up 0.70 at 145.10.


Hang Seng Bank rose 0.90 at 112.40 and BOC Hong Kong gained 0.22
at 19.58.


The property sub-index was up 236.72 points or 0.97 percent at
24,716.51 with Cheung Kong up 1.50 at 105.0 and Sun Hung Kai up
0.65 to 92.65.


New listing China Molybdenum closed at 10.82, up 59.1 percent
from its IPO price of 6.80 dollars. It opened trade at 11.28
dollars.


The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index finished up 83.89 points or
0.82 percent at 10,260.99, off an early high of 10,301.46.

