

Japanese automaker Mitsubishi Motors reported Wednesday its first
annual net profit in four years, helped by a weaker yen, as it
battles back from a series of defect cover-up scandals.


The return to the black came despite a continued decline in
vehicles sales, which was offset by the soft yen, a more
profitable model mix and the absence of one-off restructuring
charges taken a year earlier, the company said.


Mitsubishi's net profit came to 8.7 billion yen (73.3 million
dollars), a significant improvement on the previous year's net
loss of 92.2 billion yen.


Operating profit soared to 40.2 billion yen from 6.8 billion
while revenue grew 3.9 percent to 2.2 trillion yen.


"Favorable yen exchange rates and a more profitable model mix
more than offset decreases in retail sales volume," the automaker
said in a statement.


Mitsubishi Motors has been struggling to return to profit
following years of slumping sales caused by a series of defect
cover-up scandals that required a massive bailout of the heavily-
indebted company in 2004.


The company's global sales fell 8.3 percent to 1.232 million
vehicles in the last fiscal year and were down 3.9 percent in
Japan.


However, Mitsubishi expects global sales to rebound to 1.323
million vehicles in the current fiscal year to March 2008.


It expects its net profit to more than double to 20 billion yen,
while operating profit is seen rising to 51 billion yen and
revenue to 2.43 trillion yen.


In 2000, Mitsubishi admitted to keeping the transport ministry in
the dark about at least 64,000 complaints filed by car owners
dating back to 1977.


The group's sales were further hit by a cover-up scandal at its
former truck- making subsidiary which came to light in March
2004.

