

The euro hit 162.55 yen in European trade early on Thursday, its
highest ever level against the Japanese currency, on optimism
about growth prospects for the 13-nation eurozone, dealers said.


The European single currency again reached just shy of its record
high against the dollar, also on expectations of further interest
rate rises for the eurozone.


The euro hit 1.3654 dollars on Thursday. A day earlier the single
currency scaled a more than two-year peak of 1.3665 dollars,
almost touching its December 30, 2004 record high of 1.3666.


"It seems we may have to wait for Friday's US GDP figure to see a
clear break of the euro-dollar high, considering the relatively
empty economic calendar today," Commerzbank currency strategist
Gavin Friend said.


The euro hit a new pinnacle against the yen, as the market braced
for a series of economic reports on Friday including Japanese
unemployment, consumer prices and industrial output, as well as
the Bank of Japan's economic outlook report.


In the United States, key US gross domestic product (GDP) figures
for the first quarter were also due Friday.


"Friday's US GDP report for the first quarter where GDP growth is
expected to have slowed to 1.8 percent from 2.5 percent will be
key to whether the dollar continues to trend lower in the short-
term," National Australia Bank currency strategist John
Kyriakopoulos wrote in a note to clients.


Players have driven the euro higher on growing expectations of
further interest rate rises by the European Central Bank, with
many economists forecasting a quarter point rise to 4.00 percent
in June.


That would make eurozone assets even more attractive, enticing
investors to change other currencies into the euro.

