

Asian stocks closed higher on Thursday after investors took their
cue from New York where surging corporate results propelled Wall
Street to a record close.


Investors were also hopeful that buoyant profits would also
emerge from the Asia Pacific region where the reporting season is
well underway, particularly in Tokyo where the benchmark closed
1.12 percent higher.


Wellington, despite a central bank rise in interest rates,
managed to stay with the trend and advanced 0.28 percent, Sydney
rose 0.39 percent, Taipei was up 0.19 percent and Seoul gained
0.49 percent.


Shanghai, up 1.04 percent, continued its push into record
territory while Hong Kong was 0.64 percent higher on the the
mainland and New York's lead.


Singapore was among the best performers on the day with a 1.32
percent rise, Manila was up 1.24 percent and Jakarta returned to
record territory with a surge of 1.48 percent.


However, gains in Bangkok were limited to 0.07 percent and in
Mumbai to just 0.08 percent. Kuala Lumpur was closed for public
holiday.


TOKYO: Share prices closed up 1.12 percent after the Dow Jones
Industrial Average crossed 13,000 points for the first time ever
overnight.


Dealers said the record finish on Wall Street overwhelmed caution
on the domestic front, where a raft of data is out Friday in the
midst of the corporate earnings season.


The Nikkei-225 index gained 193.01 points to 17,429.17. Volume
was 2.03 billion shares, up from 1.81 billion Wednesday.


"Investor sentiment improved after the Dow topped 13,000 points
overnight," said Hideo Mizutani, chief strategist at Sieg
Securities.


He said the gains here had been led by the futures market and
that rallies on other East Asian markets helped.


The appetite for buying was whetted by expectations that
companies will report healthy earnings, Mizutani said.


At the same time, stocks face stong resistance "at the
17,500-points level as investors refrained from aggressive buying
before more results, the economic data (Friday) and the Golden
Week (holidays next week)," he said.


Several economic indicators are due to be released Friday,
including consumer inflation for March and the Bank of Japan's
latest report on the outlook for economic activity and prices.


Hiroaki Hiwada, a strategist at Toyo Securities, said: "There is
speculation that the Bank of Japan will raise its key interest
rate in May so investors are waiting for the (inflation) report."


JFE Holdings rose 280 yen to 6,720.


HONG KONG: Share prices closed 0.64 percent higher as investors
cheered a record performance on Wall Street overnight and further
gains on the mainland's A-share markets.


Dealers said the index came off the day's highs due to some
profit-taking in late trade.


The Hang Seng Index closed up 130.51 points at 20,667.29.
Turnover was 51.80 billion Hong Kong dollars (6.64 billion US).


"The upside driven by a record Wall Street close was capped in
late trade due to profit-taking in select blue chips like China
Mobile as investors turned a bit cautious ahead of futures
settlement tomorrow and the long holiday in China," said Jackson
Wong, investment manager at Tanrich Securities.


Wall Street hit a new record overnight as the Dow Jones
Industrial Average breached the 13,000 points level for the first
time ever.


Wong said that investors are likely to step up profit-taking on
Friday ahead of the golden week holidays in China next week.


"Investors would like to sell


before the long holiday in China as they are worried that the
Chinese government will announce austerity measures next week,"
he said, referring to possible credit-tightening measures.


China Mobile closed down 0.05 at 72.95.


SEOUL: Share prices closed 0.49 percent higher with sentiment
buoyed by upbeat quarterly results from local firms and a record
breaking performance on Wall Street overnight.


Dealers said IT stocks and banks rebounded on rotational interest
by foreign investors with investors cheering solid first-quarter
earnings by SK Telecom and Hynix.


The KOSPI index closed up 7.58 points at 1,553.13. Volume was 384
million shares worth 5.1 trillion won (5.48 billion dollars).


"The Dow's new record high provided a strong boost here. The
market is now looking upwards again," Korea Investment Securities
analyst James Soh said.


Samsung Electronics jumped 16,000 won to 580,000.


TAIPEI: Share prices closed 0.19 percent higher after late
profit-taking pared gains made earlier on the back of Wall
Street's overnight record performance.


Dealers said technology stocks have been on the rise due to
expectations of an industry recovery but the recent gains
encouraged investors to take profits in select stocks in the
sector, they said.


The weighted index added 15.39 points to 8,000.04 on turnover of
96.42 billion Taiwan dollars (2.92 billion US).


"While there were expectations of a recovery in the technology
industry, sentiment remained cautious as more firms are due to
disclose results and guidance," Mega International Investment
Services assistant vice president Alex Huang said.


He said political concerns also affected turnover as investors
waited for the parties to name their candidates for the 2008
presidential elections.


Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co rose 0.60 dollars to 69.90.


SHANGHAI: Share prices closed 1.04 percent higher in another
record performance made on the back of continued fund inflows and
a strengthening yuan.


Dealers said a firmer yuan and expectations of solid gains in
Friday's dual Shanghai and Hong Kong listing of China's CITIC
bank, the nation's seventh largest lender, helped buoy sentiment.


It was the turn of property and tourism stocks to find support
while volumes continued heavy but somewhat lighter than of late
as investors looked ahead to the long Labour Day holiday next
week.


The Shanghai Composite Index rose 39.10 points at 3,783.06 on
turnover of 142.17 billion yuan (18.39 billion dollars).


"The market was encouraged by the strength in the yuan and gains
on Wall Street overnight but the fall in turnover indicated some
caution ahead of the long vacation (next week)," said Feng Jin,
an analyst at Sanyuan Consulting.


"Many investors are confident about the debut performance by
CITIC Bank and started to build positions in advance," Zhang Yi,
an analyst at Yibang Investment, said.


Shenzhen Development Bank was up 1.24 yuan at 25.95.


SYDNEY: Share prices closed 0.39 percent higher as investor
sentiment was buoyed by Wall Street's record-breaking performance
overnight.


Dealers said the positive lead from Wall Street was reinforced by
benign domestic inflation data for the March quarter released
Tuesday, which showed the Reserve Bank of Australia is unlikely
to raise interest rates in 2007.


The SP/ASX200 index rose 24.0 points to 6,212.2. Turnover was
1.83 billion shares worth 6.75 billion dollars (5.64 billion US)
were traded.


Reynolds and Co private client advisor Michael Heffernan said the
overnight rise on Wall Street shares was clearly a leading
indicator for the Australian sharemarket.


Heffernan said ANZ, Australia's third largest bank, fell on
profit taking despite reporting a 16 percent year-on-year rise in
net profit for the first half to March of 2.1 billion dollars.


He said the market was slightly disappointed that one-off items
reduced the bank's cash profit to 11.8 percent, pushing the stock
down 0.32 dollars or 1.03 percent dollars to 30.88.


SINGAPORE: Share prices closed 1.32 percent higher as investors
snapped up blue chips after the Dow Jones Industrial Average
struck a record peak.


Dealers noted that Singapore investors were also buying on
expectations that more local companies will report positive
earnings after some blue chip companies delivered strong results.


The Straits Times Index closed up 44.21 points at 3,406.89 on
volume of 2.92 billion shares worth 2.48 billion dollars (1.64
billion US).


"At the moment investors are buying stocks ahead of first-quarter
results which are generally expected to be strong," a dealer with
a local brokerage said.


But he noted the market remains vulnerable to pullbacks.


"There will still be bouts of consolidation but the general trend
is still quite positive," the dealer said.


Singapore Telecommunications added 0.04 to 3.38.


KUALA LUMPUR: Closed.


BANGKOK: Share prices closed 0.07 percent higher, supported by
robust gains across the region and Wall Street smashing the
13,000-point barrier for the first time.


Dealers said the Thai market held firm on buying of energy and
construction stocks.


The composite index rose 0.49 points to 690.79 on turnover of 1.6
billion shares worth 12.5 billion baht (360 million dollars).


"Investors bought energy and construction stocks as sentiment was
upbeat due to strong gains in the region" which came after the US
stock market broke the 13,000-point barrier for the first time on
Wednesday, said Kanang Duangmanee, an economist at Kasikorn
Research Center.


But she added overall gains in the Thai market were limited due
to ongoing political worries following a September coup.


PTT rose 4.00 baht to 214.00.


JAKARTA: Share prices finished up 1.48 percent at a record
closing high after the Dow Jones Industrials index finished above
13,000 points for the first time overnight.


Dealers said the main index also finished above the
psychologically important level of 2,000 points, on the back of
Wall Street's surge.


Upbeat local factors including a stronger rupiah, solid corporate
earnings and hopes of further interest rate cuts were also
responsible.


The composite index closed up 29.362 points at 2,016.033. Volume
was 6.96 billion shares worth 5.49 trillion rupiah (604.82
million dollars).


"It is the Wall Street record close and global markets strength
that supported the rally here," said Juanita Hutami, a fund
manager with Ciptadana Asset Management.


She added that domestic factors such as expectations for low
inflation in April and some strong first quarter corporate
earnings, also aided sentiment.


Hutami noted however that after Thursday's sharp rise most stocks
are now richly valued and so will be prone to profit-taking.


Telkom up 300 rupiah at 10,800.


MANILA: Share prices rose 1.24 percent to hit a two month-high,
buoyed by a record performance on Wall Street overnight.


Dealers said Thursday's performance was the result of the
market's recent push to crack the 3,300 resistance level.


The composite index jumped 40.91 points to 3,350.34 on volume of
7.5 billion shares.


"If the surge continues, the market may try to test a new
resistance level and bring the index closer to the all-time high
of 3,400," said Lawrence de Leon of Accord Capital Equities Inc.


Astro del Castillo, managing director of First Grade Holdings
Inc, said players were influenced by the run-up on overseas
markets.


"The upbeat mood on Wall Street, along with the trickle of
positive results of corporates earlier this week, inspired
investors here to also take positions on companies expected to
release better results."


"We expect the index to continue its rise due to strong buying
from foreign funds and as the market has already breached a
critical resistance level," said Ron Rodrigo at Unicapital
Securities Inc, referring to the recent breach of 3,300 points.


He said geopolitical concerns were taking a backseat for now as
investors are giving their full attention to corporate earnings
and the country's robust economic outlook.


Petron Corp advanced 30 centavos to 5.50 pesos.


WELLINGTON: Share prices rose 0.28 percent, maintaining the
recent positive momentum despite the central bank hiking interest
rates again.


The NZX-50 index added 11.79 points at 4,174.90 on turnover worth
104.75 million dollars (77.7 million US).


The central bank raised the official cash rate by 0.25 basis
points to 7.75 percent in the second hike in two months.


Investors may have taken heart from the fact the bank "said
nothing about future rises and in fact has waved the prospect of
some sort of intervention to get the (New Zealand) dollar down,"
said Stephen Wright of ASB Securities.


"The market has generally, apart from Fletcher Building, taken
the rate rise in its stride and even the rises in the exchange
rate," he said.


Higher interest rates make the New Zealand dollar more attractive
to foreign investors, pushing it higher, but this in turn hurts
exporters whose goods then become more expensive.


Fletcher Building fell six cents to 11.45 dollars.


MUMBAI: Share prices closed marginally higher as overseas funds
bought leading index shares on strong earnings for the fourth
quarter ended March.


Dealers said that full-year earnings for most Indian companies
reported in April and related guidance for future profits kept
sentiment strong.


The Mumbai 30-share Sensex closed up 11.11 points at 14,228.88.


The Indian rupee also gained Thursday against the dollar to a
nearly decade high of 40.78.


Hectic buying was seen in India's largest private sector company
Reliance Industries, which fell 9.85 rupees or 0.62 percent to
1,590, ahead of fourth quarter earnings later Thursday.


"The buying momentum slowed down in late afternoon trade," said
Hiten Mehta, a fund manager with Fortune Financial Services.

