

The United States has rejected a bid by a US-China venture to
take private a Hong Kong-based satellite operator, invoking
export approval powers dating back to the Cold War, a report said
Thursday.


GE Capital Equity Investments of the United States and Beijing-
controlled Citic Group had offered to take Asia Satellite
Telecommunications (AsiaSat) off the market in a 295 million US
dollar deal, the Financial Times reported.


Both companies each hold 34 percent of AsiaSat. The deal, which
requires approvals from several governments, would have given the
two companies a 50-50 percent share of AsiaSat, it said.


But the US State Department refused to give the plan the go-
ahead. It was subject to the US International Traffic in Arms
Regulations (ITAR), which govern the export of technologies with
potential military applications.


"Under the company's current shareholder structure everything is
fine but (the) State (Department) said: If AsiaSat goes out and
changes (its structure), how we approach the company is going to
change'" an unnamed source familiar with the situation was quoted
as saying.


Citing several unnamed sources, the report also said the US
government did not give any reasons for its decision or indicate
what kind of changes it would accept.


AsiaSat operates three satellites built by US aerospace giants
Boeing and Lockheed Martin.


The ruling comes after China conducted a successful anti-
satellite missile test in January -- the first successful
demonstration of such a capability by any country in more than 20
years -- sparking sharp US concerns.

