

Homeless Zambians whose houses were razed recently by authorities
in the capital Lusaka have launched a legal battle to force the
government to pay them compensation, their lawyer said Thursday.


The residents are suing the minister of local government and
housing as well as the attorney-general, claiming the land on
which the government maintains they built their homes illegally
was offered to them by the local municipality.


"We pray that the court grants us compensation and full costs of
properties demolished," the representative, Daniel Zulu, said in
a statement of claim filed before the Lusaka high court on
Wednesday.


Scores of people have been left homeless in the capital since the
controversial programme of demolitions in shanty-towns began last
month.


Zulu said the residents had lost personal effects, furniture and
money during the demolitions, alleging that money of them were
asleep when the bulldozers moved in.


The residents also claim that the government failed to provide
them with reasonable notice or an opportunity to voice their
arguments.


"The government should pay exemplary damages for denying us quiet
enjoyment of our properties," the claim added.


The Lusaka high court is yet to set the date for hearing of the
case.


President Levy Mwanawasa however has urged his ministers to push
ahead with the demolition exercise even if it appears to be a
very unpopular decision made by his government.


"If it means you removing them making the city clean, you do it,"
Mwanawasa was quoted as saying by the privately-owned Post
Newspaper on Thursday.


"That action may today look unpopular but later when the street
is looking clean, they will praise you," Mwanawasa said.

