

Brazilian striker Washington fired home two goals to see Urawa
Red Diamonds return to their winning form with a 2-0 victory over
Ventforet Kofu in J-League football on Saturday.


Brazilian-born Japanese international defender Marcus Tulio
Tanaka sent a cross from the left, allowing Washington to land a
five-metre right-footer in the 57th minute.


In the 69th minute, Washington's shot on a Tatsuya Tanaka pass
was saved by Kofu goalkeeper Kensaku Abe, but the Brazilian
quickly collected the rebound to make it two up.


Urawa, who lost two goals in the last two minutes to be drawn
with Albirex Niigata last week, showed solid defence to stretch
their unbeaten streak on their home ground to 25.


"I'm just glad that we gained three points. It was very hard
work. We sent quick passes soon after snatching the ball to take
the offensive and that produced some chances," said Urawa's
German coach Holger Osieck.


"It worked better in the second half. As a result, we scored
goals and won. Overall, we played really well. I think my players
started to play better and better in each game," he added.


Urawa have two wins and a draw for seven points to be tied with
Kawasaki Frontale and Kashiwa Reysol, two points behind front
runners Gamba Osaka.


In other J-League action, Osaka blanked Sanfrecce Hiroshima 3-0
with goals from Takahiro Futagawa, Yasuhito Endo and Brazilian
Bare, while Kawasaki overwhelmed first division newcomers
Yokohama FC with a 6-0 thrashing.


Korean-born Lee Tadanari, who gained Japanese nationality last
month to join the Olympic team, nodded home the sole goal to give
Kashiwa a 1-0 win over Shimizu S-Pulse.


Former international Yoshito Okubo and Brazilian Leandro scored
two goals each to give Vissel Kobe a 4-1 win over Yokohama
Marinos, while Kashima Antlers drew 3-3 against JEF United Chiba.

