

Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas called for a negotiated peace
with Israel and a rejection of "all forms of violence" in an
address to MPs Saturday as they prepared to vote on a new unity
cabinet.


"We reiterate that we reject all forms of violence and seek a
settlement based on international legitimacy through negotiations
that we are ready to resume to reach a just peace," Abbas told
MPs in Gaza City.


Addressing the "Israeli government and people", he expressed
readiness to "take the road of a just peace by resuming
negotations" between Israel and the Palestine Liberation
Organization, which he also heads.


"We extend our hand once more to reach a peace settlement that
will give future generations a hope of peaceful coexistence and
put an end to the suffering and the cycle of violence."


Abbas expressed hope that the new broad-based coalition cabinet
bringing together representatives of his secular Fatah faction
and independents as well as the Islamists of Hamas would lead to
an end to a crippling year-old Western aid freeze.


"I hope that the favourable reception given to the new government
both in the Arab world and internationally will result in
concrete steps to put an end to the embargo," he said.


The president rejected Israeli calls for modifications to an Arab
peace initiative that envisages full normalisation of relations
with the Jewish state in return for its withdrawal from all
occupied Arab land and the creation of an independent, viable
Palestinian state.


He slammed continuing Israeli settlement expansion, the
construction of the controversial separation barrier in the West
Bank and the "isolation of Jerusalem."


"This complicates and makes the quest for peace more difficult,"
he said.

