

Six missing medical workers have been found alive after spending
more than two weeks drifting in Indonesian waters in their
speedboat, an official said Saturday.


The health officials had left Saumlaki town on eastern Tanimbar
island on February 27 to deliver medicine, milk and baby food to
the remote town of Kormomolin about two hours away by speedboat.


The six were found floating on Wednesday in the Arafura Sea by
fishermen about 1,200 kilometres (740 miles) from where they
originally set off, officials said.


They were all reportedly in good health although in a weakened
condition after their 16-day ordeal.


It is not clear what happened to their boat that caused them to
drift so far. Good weather had been reported when they left, with
no strong winds and calm seas.


The fishermen dropped the six, who had survived on baby food and
by collecting and drinking rain water, on the island of Dobo on
Friday night, provincial secretary Said Assagaff said on ElShinta
radio.


"Doctor Juliana Carolus and friends who were missing since
February 28 were found alive," ministry of health official Rustam
Pakaya told AFP without explaining the discrepancy in the date.


A charter plane took them to the provincial capital of Ambon
where an ambulance was on standby to take them to hospital for a
checkup.


They were greeted at Ambon airport by Assegaf, the governor of
Maluku province and other officials on Saturday morning.


They were not immediately available to talk to reporters.


All six survivors were seen to disembark the plane unassisted.


Maluku Governor Karel Albert Ralahalu told reporters that he
would reward the fishermen that had rescued them.


Separately, a training ship carrying 18 fishery students that had
been floating since Thursday was rescued by two navy patrol ships
early Saturday.


The ship's propeller broke 200 kilometres west of Ambon.

