

The French-Spanish tobacco company Altadis has rejected a 11.5
billion euro (15.2 billion dollar) takeover offer from British
rival Imperial Tobacco, according to a statement released on
Saturday.


The board of Altadis "has looked at this offer and rejected it
unanimously", the company statement said, adding that it "does
not reflect the strategic value of the group, nor its unique and
diverse assets, as well as their future growth prospects."


Imperial's offer was made last Thursday, since when the Spanish
business media has reported that Altadis has opened negotiations
with the world's leading cigarette maker, Philip Morris, for a
joint counter bid for Imperial.


Furthermore, the Spanish business daily El Economista reported on
Friday that if Philip Morris was not interested, Altadis would
approach British rival BAT to help it buy Imperial.


The move by Imperial comes amid consolidation in the industry as
anti-tobacco legislation begins to bite and tobacco companies
look elsewhere for profits.


If successful it would mark another major deal for the British
group, which announced last month that it planned to buy
Commonwealth Brands, the fourth- biggest player in the United
States, for 1.9 billion dollars (1.46 billion euros).


News of last week's Imperial approach came three months after the
world's third largest tobacco group, Japan Tobacco, which markets
the Camel and Winston brands, announced a friendly bid for the
sixth largest, Britain's Gallaher, which markets Benson and
Hedges and Silk Cut.

