

Pakistani police Saturday fired teargas shells to disperse
hundreds of protesting lawyers here in continuing unrest over the
suspension of the country's top judge, witnesses said.


The lawyers gathered in the high court compound in this eastern
city but police prevented from them from coming out for a march
on the street, witnesses said.


Police lobbed teargas shells when the stone-pelting lawyers
attempted to break through the high court's gates, police officer
Mohammad Azeem said.


More than two dozen lawyers were injured by the police action,
lawyers' representative Ahsan Bhoon said.


Later police eased restrictions and the lawyers managed to leave
the building and held a sit-down protest on the main road for
more than an hour, witnesses said.


The lawyers had called a convention in Lahore to discuss further
action after last Friday's suspension of chief justice Iftikhar
Mohammad Chaudhry by President Pervez Musharraf, their
representative Arif Sheikh said.


Bhoon said lawyers would hold countrywide protests on March 21,
when Chaudhry is scheduled to appear again before a judicial
council hearing.


Lawyers also passed a resolution demanding that Musharraf resign,
Bhoon said.


Hundreds of lawyers also marched in the southern port city of
Karachi to express solidarity with the suspended top judge.
Similar protests were also held in northwestern city of Peshawar
and Nosheraw.


Since last week lawyers have staged daily demonstrations in
various urban centers in Pakistan and opposition political
parties have also joined the protest.

