

The political crisis in Zimbabwe should not stop a planned summit
between the European Union and Africa from going ahead later this
year in Portugal, Portugual's foreign minister said on Saturday.


"Keeping up the pressure on Zimbabwe should not impede us from
having ties with Africa. This has been the EU's mistake," Luis
Amadado told news radio TSF.


"We can't continue to put off a summit with a neighbouring
continent with which Europe has close historical and cultural
ties, when this continent has summits with China, India, Latin
America or the US, who are our direct competitors," he added.


The second EU-Africa summit -- the first was held in April 2000
in Cairo -- was supposed to take place in April 2003 but was
indefinitely delayed due to opposition from some European nations
over the presence of Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe who is
accused of violating human rights.


Mugabe is banned from traveling to Europe under sanctions imposed
by the EU on Zimbabwe since 2002 but the African Union has
insisted that all its member states should be allowed to take
part in the summit.


An exception could be made to allow Mugabe to travel to Lisbon
for the summit planned for December as it did in 2005 to permit
the leader of Zimbabwe to attend the funeral of Pope John II in
Rome.


Another possible solution to the impasse is for Zimbabwe to be
represented  by a ministerial mission at the summit, which will
take place during Portugal's term at the helm of the six-month
rotating presidency of the EU.


Mugabe was sharply condemned by world leaders this week after
Zimbabwe's opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai was arrested and
beaten by security forces.

