

Sri Lankan police arrested on Saturday a government legislator
who had accused his own ruling party of striking a secret deal
with Tamil Tiger rebels, an official said.


Lawmaker Sripathi Sooriarachchi was arrested and taken before a
magistrate who remanded him to judicial custody for two weeks, a
police official said.


Sooriarachchi was accused of misusing a state-owned car just
before he was fired as ports development minister on February 9
by President Mahinda Rajapakse.


Since being stripped of his ministerial position, the lawmaker
has accused Rajapakse and his campaign managers of cutting a deal
with Tamil Tiger rebels to block votes for his opposition
presidential challenger in the 2005 election.


Rajapakse narrowly won the vote.


Tiger guerrillas enforced a ban on minority Tamils voting and
analysts believe that the move probably cost opposition
presidential candidate Ranil Wickremesinghe the election.


Wickremesinghe was friendly toward the Tamil minority. However,
the Tigers had accused the opposition leader of trying to lay a
"peace trap" to corner the guerrillas with international support
he enjoyed for his peace initiatives.


A group of Buddhist monks on Saturday asked the government to
investigate the allegations of secret contacts with the rebels.


Buddhist monks, calling themselves the "Shield of soldiers," said
police investigators have arrested security personnel who had
worked with ruling party dissidents in a move that hurt the
morale of troops battling the rebels.


The government has denied any covert dealings with the Liberation
Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) and has stepped up attacks against
the guerrillas despite a Norwegian-arranged truce in place since
2002.

