

German Chancellor Angela Merkel and Polish President Lech
Kaczynski wrapped up talks Saturday aimed at improving fragile
relations between the two countries.


Merkel, who had also planned to discuss the stalled European
constitution, left the meeting at the Polish president's
residence on the Hel peninsula at about noon.


Talks were held Friday night and Saturday morning. No details of
the discussions were made public.


On Friday, Merkel warned Poland not to block the European
constitution.


"The time for reflection is past. It's time for decisions," she
said. "Let me say this uncategorically: failure to do this would
be a historic missed opportunity."


The meeting in Poland came a little more than a week ahead of a
European Union summit in Berlin.


EU countries plan to mark the 50th anniversary of the bloc at the
summit, as well as discuss the European constitution.


The constitution project has been ratified by 18 member states
but remains in limbo after it was rejected in referendums in
France and the Netherlands in 2005.


Led by Poland's euro-sceptic identical twins, Kaczynski and his
brother Jaroslaw, the prime minister, Warsaw last month urged the
EU to ditch attempts to revive the constitution.


Leaders of Catholic Poland also want references to Christianity
to be included in a statement set to be issued to mark the EU
anniversary.


Relations between Germany and Poland have been tested recently.


One touchy issue involves Germans who were expelled from Polish
territory as World War II drew to a close.


They were among some 14 million German civilians who were
displaced, deported or expelled from their homes in eastern
Europe from 1944 onwards as the Soviet Red Army advanced and
Germany's Third Reich crumbled.


Merkel has in the past spoken out in favour of a proposed centre
for Germany's war displaced -- a project that the Kaczynski twins
bitterly oppose, saying it is an attempt to portray Germans as
war victims and rewrite history.

