

Tens of thousands of people demonstrated in five French cities on
Saturday against plans to build a so-called "third-generation"
nuclear reactor in Normandy.


Some 40,000 people demonstrated in Rennes in Britanny, 2,000 in
Lille in the north, 2,000 in the eastern city of Strasbourg,
2,000 in Lyon in the centre and thousands more in Toulouse in the
south west, police and organisers said.


"There is a massive rejection by the population of the new
nuclear reactor," said Stephane Lhomme, the national spokesman
for the "Sortir" anti-nuclear network, who said 60,000 people had
turned out across the country.


"Obviously it is a warning to candidates in the presidential
election. Those who do not speak out against the EPR will lose
thousands of votes," he said, as demonstrators marched to calls
of "no no no to the EPR".


France's nuclear safety commission gave a green light earlier
this month for the construction of the 3.3-billion euro
(4.3-billion dollar) European Pressurized Water Reactor.


Construction of the EPR, located near the town of Flamanville in
Normandy near the English Channel, is slated to begin by the end
of the year.


France derives around three-quarters of its electricity from
nuclear power, the highest ratio of any country in the world, and
many of its reactors are approaching obsolescence.


The EPR design was developed in the 1990s by Germany's Siemens
and France's Framatome-ANP, which is part of the state-owned
nuclear energy group Areva.


It reportedly uses 17 percent less fuel than the types of reactor
currently operating in France, and is designed to generate power
for 60 years.


The 58 reactors currently in service -- built under a vast
programme launched 30 years ago during the first oil crisis --
will begin to age out of operation beginning in 2015.

