

Three Muslims were shot dead and a Buddhist and two Muslims were
wounded in separate drive-by shootings in Thailand's restive
Muslim-majority south, police said Saturday.


A 29-year-old Muslim man was gunned down while talking to two
other villagers in Narathiwat, one of three violence-torn
provinces bordering Malaysia, they said.


Militants opened fire from a passenger car on the three, police
said, adding the two men were also seriously wounded.


Also in Narathiwat, a 59-year-old father and his 30-year-old son
were shot and killed late Friday while riding a motorcycle in the
province's Ruso district, police said.


Ruso is one of the districts in which the government was
considering expanding curfews, according to local reports, in the
wake of Wednesday's massacre of nine Buddhists by suspected
Islamic militants.


The military has already imposed a curfew in the districts of
Yaha and Banang Sata in Yala province, which suffered the brunt
of recent attacks, including the grisly daylight killings of the
nine Buddhists and bombings.


In neighboring Pattani province, a 61-year-old Buddhist man was
shot and wounded Saturday after two militants opened fire on a
crowd of residents who were watching and listening to doves to be
chosen for a bird show.


Militants also set fire to a public elementary school in Pattani
Saturday, gutting the wooden building, police said.


Teachers and schools are often targeted by insurgents, who see
them as trying to impose Buddhist Thai values on the Muslim-
majority region.


Security forces also defused a five-kilogram (11-pound) roadside
bomb Saturday in Narathiwat.


The three Muslim-majority provinces of Narathiwat, Pattani and
Yala were once an autonomous sultanate, until the region was
annexed by mainly Buddhist Thailand a century ago. Separatist
unrest has erupted periodically ever since.


The latest insurgency has killed some 2,000 people since January
2004.

