

Human rights body Amnesty International called on Egypt's
parliament on Saturday to reject proposed constitutional changes
which it described as the most serious undermining of the
people's rights in 26 years.


In a statement on the eve of a debate on amendments to articles
of the constitution, Amnesty said the changes would give sweeping
powers of arrest to the police, allow monitoring of private
communications and enable Egypt's president to bypass ordinary
courts for people suspected of terrorism.


"Amnesty International recognises the threat posed to Egypt by
terrorism, but respect for and protection of fundamental human
rights cannot simply be swept away by a majority vote," said
Hassiba Hadj Sahraoui, Amnesty's deputy director for the Middle
East and North Africa.


She said the amendments, proposed by President Hosni Mubarak,
would entrench the system of abuse under the country's state of
emergency, which was reimposed in 1981.


Egypt's opposition has already denounced the changes as "opening
the way to a police state."


The government argues that the amendments will enable the state
of emergency to be lifted, a stance rejected by Amnesty which
said the changes would "give the misuse of those powers a bogus
legitimacy."


Amnesty's deputy director said: "Instead of putting an end to the
secret detentions, enforced 'disappearances,' torture and unfair
trials before emergency and military courts, Egyptian MPs are now
being asked to sign away even the constitutional protections
against such human rights violations."


Egypt's state of emergency was lifted by former president Anwar
Sadat after the peace treaty with Israel signed in 1979. It was
reinstated after his assassination by Islamists in 1981.

