

At least 200 people rallied in Bangkok on Saturday to demand an
end to Thailand's army-installed government, which came to power
six months ago after a bloodless coup.


"Bring back democracy to Thailand. We are against the coup," the
crowd, mostly middle-aged men and women, chanted at Bangkok's
Sanam Luang plaza.


Some 30 people wore red shirts emblazoned with the word "NO" and
called military-backed Prime Minister Surayud Chulanont "a
puppet" of coup leader General Sonthi Boonyaratglin.


"The military rule is wrong. The military should stay away from
politics," a male protester shouted from a stage at the plaza. No
uniformed police officers were seen at the peaceful
demonstration.


Since overthrowing premier Thaksin Shinawatra's government in the
putsch, the military had imposed martial law, purged Thaksin's
loyalists and banned public gatherings.


The junta justified the coup by saying that Thaksin, a self-made
billionaire- turned-politician, was corrupt and that the army-
backed government would probe alleged graft during his five years
in office.


But the military has come under criticism over the slow pace of
its corruption probes with the latest survey showing public
support for Surayud's government plunging to 48 percent in
February from 71 percent in November.


While the government has lifted the ban on political gatherings,
half of Thailand still remains under martial law.


Thaksin, for his part, has been living in self-imposed exile
abroad since the coup, hopping between Europe and Asia. The 57
-year-old deposed leader was in New York when the military seized
power in September last year.

