

A US Treasury official on Saturday said it was up to the Macau
authorities to decide whether to release North Korean funds which
were frozen at a Macau bank under US financial sanctions.


Deputy Assistant Secretary Daniel Glaser led a Treasury
delegation to the former Portuguese enclave for talks on Banco
Delta Asia, three days after the department barred US banks from
any dealings with BDA.


It was a move that effectively cut off the family-owned bank from
the global financial system, but cleared the way to unfreeze
North Korean funds in a move seen as part of an international
deal to end Pyongyang's nuclear programmes.


"It will be for the Macau authorities to decide what to do with
the funds, whether to release it or not. We did conduct an
investigation and hope our investigation will be helpful to their
determination," he told reporters in Hong Kong after returning
from Macau.


"I think they will act responsibly with that information as they
have acted responsibly all along," he added. "The authorities
don't need my suggestion."


The financial sanctions issue was one of the major outstanding
hurdles to a February 13 accord under which Pyongyang promised to
begin shutting down its nuclear programme in exchange for energy
aid and diplomatic concessions.


Macau's Monetary Authority took control of BDA in late 2005,
after the United States declared it a "primary money laundering
concern," and froze about 25 million dollars in assets belonging
to North Korea.


Glaser said the Macau authorities had "behaved very responsibly
and diligently" in their management of BDA and had taken "the
legislative and regulatory actions needed to take to protect in
Macau financial system from abuse."


The Treasury official said his team would head to Beijing on
Sunday but did not disclose further details.


A fresh round of disarmament negotiations, which group the two
Koreas, China, the United States, Russia and Japan, begins in
Beijing on Monday.

