

The US plan to base missiles in central Europe harms trust
between NATO and Russia and may create confrontation where none
exists today, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov warned here
Saturday.


"There is no doubt that American anti-missile defense in Europe
has a serious and negative impact on our relations with NATO,"
Lavrov said in an address to the Council for International and
Defence Policy, a club of Russian officials and foreign policy
specialists.


Lavrov suggested that the US-led North Atlantic Treaty
Organization (NATO) was being used to "camouflage" unilateral
measures that Russia considered threatening. If so, he asked,
then "what added value is there for the NATO- Russia Council?"


"We are opposed to strategic games in Europe that may create
potential for confrontation in what is literally an empty place,"
the Russian minister said.


Lavrov said Russia did not seek to "drive a wedge" between the
United States and its allies in Europe. "But at the same time we
would not like for transatlantic relations between Europe and the
United States to be strengthened at Russia's expense," he added.


A meeting between Russian and NATO officials to discuss the US
missile defense plans is scheduled for April 19.


The United States wants to base 10 interceptor missiles in Poland
and install a powerful radar in the Czech Republic -- components
of a larger anti-missile defense system that Washington says is
meant to guard against threats from states like Iran and North
Korea.


US officials insist that the system poses no threat to Russia,
but the Kremlin has vocally opposed the project. It wants more
open consultation from Washington, a call that has won backing
from several powerful European countries led by Germany.

