

A former ally of Serbian leader Slobodan Milosevic charged with
siphoning off state funds during the 1990s has been arrested in
Belgrade, it was reported on Saturday.


Mihalj Kertes, a former head of customs, was one of two former
officials close to Milosevic who were charged last week with
diverting state funds to Cyprus while Belgrade was under
international sanctions.


He was taken into custody late on Friday evening independent
radio station B92 reported on Saturday.


The other man charged was Jovan Zebic, who held a number of key
posts during the Milosevic era, including finance minster and
deputy governor of the national bank.


However, he died last week two days after the charges were laid
against the pair. No details on how or why he died have been
given to date.


Two others were mentioned in the March 13 charge sheet, Milosevic
himself and a former prime minister, Nikola Sainovic, who is
currently on trial at the UN warcrimes tribunal in The Hague.


Kertes joined the Serbian government as minister without
portfolio in 1993 when Milosevic was president of Serbia. He went
on to become the Yugoslav Customs Chief in 1994 and stayed in
office until the fall of the Milosevic regime in 2000.


In February Kertes was sentenced to two and a half years in
prison for his role in the attempted murder of Serbia's outgoing
foreign affairs minister, Vuk Draskovic. However, he was not
placed in custody.


The United States Treasury has estimated that more than four
billion dollars were diverted to bank accounts in Cyprus by
Milosevic allies.


Most of the money was used to finance Milosevic's Socialist Party
or to fill holes in the state budget, which was substantially
limited by international sanctions imposed on Belgrade for much
of his time in office.

