

Russia seeks to develop uranium deposits in Namibia and help the
southwest African country build a nuclear plant to increase
electricity supply amidst a feared power shortage in the region.


Russian Prime Minister Mikhail Fradkov held talks with his
Namibian counterpart Nahas Angula and President Hifikepunye
Pohamba Saturday on the second leg of his three-nation Africa
tour of Angola, Namibia and South Africa.


"We face a problem with electricity supply due to a looming
shortage in South Africa, from where we import nearly half of our
electricity," said President Pohamba at State House.


"The power shortage affects southern Africa and we want our own
power plant utilising our own (uranium) resources to be
independent," Pohamba said, when talks began.


"We are pleased the Russian Federation wants to assist Namibia in
this field," he added.


Fradkov said the economic relations between Russia and Namibia
would enter a new phase as his country could help use Namibia's
uranium deposits and "develop an nuclear energy production
system."


"Such a nuclear power plant would not only secure Namibia's
energy needs, but also those of the whole southern African
region," Fradkov told Pohamba.


"We had very constructive talks," Nicolai Gribkov, Russian
ambassador to Namibia told AFP afterwards, "but more details for
the road ahead need to be mapped out."


The Russian prime minister was then whisked off to a nearby game
lodge, before flying to South Africa in the late afternoon.


Namibia has one of the largest open pit uranium mines in the
world and a second started production this year, as prices for
processed uranium or 'yellow cake' doubled in the past year to
around 75 dollars per ounce.


Several other international mining outfits are looking for more
uranium deposits, but the rush has become so intensive that the
Namibian government stopped issuing exploration licences last
month.

