

Basque separatist group ETA has sent letters to business owners
asking them to pay a "revolutionary tax" to finance the group's
activities, a newspaper reported on Saturday.


El Correo newspaper said the letters ask for "voluntary
contributions" from Basque business owners. The group is seeking
contributions of between 60,000 and 70,000 euros.


Anti-terrorism experts told the paper that the letters were not a
surprise since the organisation has been in the red for more than
a year.


The money raised from businesses in the Basque and Navarra
regions are believed to be used to finance arms purchases, home
rentals and the needs of underground militants.


According to El Correo, ETA has often asked for contributions
from business owners in the past.


Also on Saturday, the conservative Navarra government called for
demonstrations against a proposed merger with the Basque region.
The protest was set for Saturday afternoon in Pamplona.


Batasuna, ETA's banned political wing, has proposed merging the
two regions as a means of boosting radicals' push for Basque
independence.


The regions are administered separately but pro-independence
Basque nationalist would like to see it become joined to the
Basque provinces of Vizcaya, Alava, Guipuzcoa and the French
Basque region.


Navarra, which is partially Basque-speaking, is viewed by Basque
nationalists as culturally integral to their vision of an
independent Basque state.


The planned protest comes two months before regional elections in
Spain. Mariano Rajoy, leader of Spain's opposition right-wing
party, was scheduled to participate in the protest.


Navarra residents would have to approve any merger in a
referendum.


Spain First Deputy Prime Minister Maria Teresa Fernandez de la
Vega said Saturday that Navarra's status would not change without
residents' approval.


"Navarra is not negotiable," she said.

