

Italian Davide Rebellin survived a late attack on his race lead
during the penultimate stage of Paris-Nice, won by enterprising
Spaniard Luis Sanchez here Saturday.


Gerolsteiner all-rounder Rebellin began the stage with a six-
second lead in the general classification ahead of Spaniard
Alberto Contador, who will have to wait for Sunday's hilly final
stage to bid for the race leader's yellow jersey.


Rebellin finally managed to keep that lead intact but knows he
will have to fight all the way to secure his first major victory
of the season.


Contador, one of the Discovery Channel team's up and coming stage
racers, attacked Rebellin on the ninth and final climb of the day
around 25 km from the finish line.


He left the Italian trailing on the col du Tanneron, catching up
with Frenchman Sylvain Chavanel, Sanchez and two of his Discovery
teammates Levi Leipheimer and Tom Danielson.


With a 22-sec lead on Rebellin's group at the summit, Contador
was the virtual race leader, The gap then grew to 35sec however
the Spaniard was kept in check by a determined Rebellin, and
Sanchez's own ambitions.


The Caisse d'Epargne rider attacked his leading group five
kilometres from the finish and after opening up a gap he was soon
followed briefly by his teammate David Lopez.


In the closing two kilometres Rebellin and the chasing peloton
made huge strides in closing the gap as Sanchez came over the
finish line alone.


Nearly 30 seconds later Italian Mirco Lorenzetto of Milram beat
Frenchman Jerome Pineau to second place.


Sanchez later dedicated his victory to compatriot Isaac Galvez,
the Spanish track cycling star who died in a tragic racing
accident at the end of last year.


In the general classification Rebellin is still six seconds ahead
of Contador, while the 23-year-old Sanchez has moved up to third
place overall at 16.


Sunday's final stage is a 129.5 km race in the hills behind Nice
which includes four categorised climbs.

