

Afghan authorities said Saturday they had seized and destroyed
more than 100 kilograms (220 pounds) of heroin and a large
quantity of chemicals used in drug making in southern Helmand
province.


The anti narcotics force captured the drugs including 1,000
kilograms of chemicals used in making heroin from Dishu district
Friday as part of an ongoing crackdown on the nation's drug
trade, the interior ministry said.


"It's a significant seizure. The drugs were destroyed in the
area," it said in a statement.


The seizure comes less than a week after the anti-narcotics force
-- an internationally-backed commando unit -- captured hundreds
of kilograms of opium and heroin along with notebooks with
guidelines for suicide bombers in Helmand.


The insurgency plagued province is Afghanistan's top drug
producing region.


Experts say illicit drugs are funding the insurgency run mainly
by Taliban loyalists.


The insurgency launched months after the 2001 toppling of the
Taliban includes Iraq-style suicide bombings. Afghanistan saw
some 140 suicide bombings in 2006 which killed hundreds of people
most of them civilians.


Afghanistan produces 92 percent of the world's opium, according
to the UN Office on Drugs and Crime. Most of it is smuggled
across the underpoliced borders with Pakistan and Iran from where
it is believed to be taken to Europe.


The government and its allies have stepped up measures against
the country's drugs trade, worth three billion dollars annually.
The efforts includes eradication of poppy fields.

