

Prime ministers Nuri al-Maliki of Iraq and John Howard of
Australia refused Saturday to set a timetable for the withdrawal
of Australian troops, vowing they will stay until "terrorists are
defeated".


"I do not want to put a timeline" on Australian troop withdrawal,
Maliki said during a press conference with his counterpart whose
unannounced visit to Baghdad was his third trip to the war-
ravaged country.


"There has been some progess but we still wish the Australians to
remain until we have completely defeated the terrorists," Maliki
said.


Howard -- along with Britain's Tony Blair, one of US President
George W. Bush's strongest allies -- shared Maliki's view,
saying: "We have made progress but there is still work to be
done.


"I told the prime minister that Australia will continue its
presence in Iraq to assist in bringing about a situation where
the Iraqi people are reasonably able to provide for their own
future and for their own security," Howard said.


"We both agreed that the future lies in collaboration between
improved security and reconciliation in the political process."


Howard also met some of the 1,450 Australian troops serving in
Iraq near Baghdad airport shortly after his arrival and before
holding talks with Maliki.


"We had very effective and detailed talks today on developments
in the political process and the achievements of the Baghdad
conference. We fully appreciate the Australian support in the
fight against terrorism," Maliki said.


The Iraqi premier was referring to a 16-nation conference of
world powers and neighbouring countries on March 10 which saw a
US delegation sit down with regional foes Iran and Syria to
discuss restoring security.


The bulk of Australian troops are stationed in southern Iraq
along with the British forces.

