

Kuwait announced on Saturday a new case of the deadly H5N1 bird
flu in a chicken, raising the number to 54 since the outbreak
began on February 25.


Health ministry spokesman Ahmad al-Shatti said in a statement
that the new case was detected in Wafra, on the southern border
with Saudi Arabia, where a majority of the cases had been
detected.


But he said tests of blood samples for some 300 people who were
in contact with the infected birds have so far been negative.


A team of experts from the World Organisation for Animal Health
arrived in Kuwait on March 5 to help the authorities and assess
the situation.


The Gulf emirate has slapped a total ban on the import and export
of birds, closed down bird markets and shut the only zoo, where
one case of an infected falcon was detected.


Authorities have also closed down hundreds of shops selling live
chickens as a precautionary measure although no case has been
reported in large poultry farms.


Kuwait has stocked some 10 million capsules of Tamiflu,
sufficient to treat about 40 percent of the population of three
million.


Authorities have also culled thousands birds of various types.


In November 2005, Kuwait announced the first case of a bird
infected with the deadly H5N1 strain -- a flamingo at a seaside
villa.


The H5N1 strain, the most aggressive form, has killed more than
160 people worldwide, according to the World Health Organisation,
and seen millions of birds destroyed.


H5N1 is an avian influenza subtype with pandemic potential, since
it might ultimately adapt into a strain that is contagious among
humans.

