

Two US Republican and two Democratic senators planned to meet
with US soldiers and military leaders in Iraq over the weekend,
as well as Iraqi officials, the envoys said in a statement
Saturday.


Republican Senator John Sununu led the congressional delegation
that included fellow Republican Lisa Murkowski and Democrats Amy
Klobuchar and Sheldon Whitehouse.


"This trip provides an important opportunity to see the situation
on the ground in Iraq in person," Sununu said in a statement.


On their way back to the United States, the lawmakers will stop
at the Landstuhl Regional Medical Center in Germany, located near
a US air base, to visit US soldiers wounded in the Iraq and
Afghanistan wars.


The trip comes amid heated debate in Congress over measures
aiming to force President George W. Bush to change his Iraq
policy.


"After four years in Iraq, there needs to be a change of course
and we must get our policy right so we can bring our troops home
as safely and quickly as possible," Klobuchar said.


Convinced their capture of Congress in elections last November
was rooted in opposing the conflict, Democrats are vowing to
force Bush to bring US troops home from Iraqi battlefields where
more than 3,200 American soldiers have died.


Democrats failed to pass a bill in the Senate Thursday that set a
goal for the withdrawal of US troops by March 2008.


The House Appropriations Committee however voted Thursday to
include in a war spending bill a Democratic plan for a timetable
that would get troops out of Iraq by September 2008 at the
latest.


The House is due to debate next week Bush's 124 billion dollar
budget request for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.

