

Japan said Thursday it would hold talks this week with Beijing on
a disputed energy field in hopes for concrete progress during a
visit by China's premier, despite criticism by hardliners here.


The talks will be held Friday in Beijing, a week after officials
from the two sides met for the first time in nine months over the
row, Japan's foreign ministry said.


China and Japan, two of the world's biggest energy importers,
have long disputed their sea border, one of the main sources of
friction between them.


The two nations have been working to repair ties. Premier Wen
Jiabao is due in Tokyo on Wednesday, the first visit by a Chinese
leader here in seven years.


"It is important to hold discussions so that the summit can find
direction," Japan's chief government spokesman Yasuhisa Shiozaki
told reporters.


He was responding after Shoichi Nakagawa, a conservative aide to
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, lashed out at the government's
approach on the gas fields.


"If a thief comes in and opens your drawer and tries to take your
wallet, it would be normal to say, 'Don't open the drawer. Don't
take the wallet.' But that hasn't been the case," Nakagawa said
Wednesday.


Japan's Nikkei business daily reported last month that Japan was
ready to compromise by agreeing to joint development of a broad
area in the East China Sea.


Beijing started test-drilling in the gas fields in 2003,
provoking outrage in Tokyo.


Japan says some of the gas fields lie too close to its exclusive
economic zone -- a delineation not recognised by China -- and
fears Beijing might siphon off resources from an area Japan
claims as its own.

