

Europe's major stock markets mainly fell on Thursday in subdued
trade ahead of the Easter holiday weekend and British interest
rate call, dealers said.


Stock markets in Frankfurt, London and Paris are closed on Friday
and Monday for the Christian festival.


The Bank of England, meanwhile, makes its latest decision on
British borrowing costs at 1100 GMT on Thursday, with many
analysts warning of another surprise hike from the current level
of 5.25 percent. Higher interest rates increase companies'
borrowing repayments.


In late morning trade on Thursday, London's FTSE 100 index of
leading shares sagged 0.18 percent to 6,353.40 points, in Paris
the CAC 40 sank 0.31 percent to 5,721.15 points, while
Frankfurt's DAX 30 added 0.01 percent to 7,074.33.


The DJ Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone blue chip shares dropped
0.12 percent to 4,256.69.


The euro stood at 1.3362 dollars.


US stocks had closed with modest gains Wednesday as news that
Iran was to free 15 British sailors helped to offset soft
economic news.


Japanese share prices took a step back on Thursday as investors
locked in profits after two days of strong gains, turning
cautious on the eve of key US jobs data due Friday, dealers said.


In Paris, France Telecom slipped 0.54 percent to 20.36 euros, and
Telefonica fell 0.36 percent to 16.83 euros in Madrid, amid
reports they were both considering making an offer for Olimpia,
the holding company that controls Telecom Italia, according to
the Wall Street Journal.


Italian newspapers had reported Wednesday that Deutsche Telekom
might team up with Mediobanca and Assicurazioni Generali in a
joint bid for a 66-percent stake in Olimpia.


In Frankfurt, Deutsche Telekom stock fell 0.77 percent to 12.90
euros.


However, in Milan, shares in Telecom Italia soared 1.23 percent
to 2.4375 euros.


In London, shares in Scottish and Newcastle fell 1.57 percent to
596.5 pence after the British brewing company received two broker
downgrades, citing bid uncertainties following recent takeover
speculation, dealers said.


In US deals on Wednesday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average
drifted up 0.16 percent to 12,530.05 points and the Nasdaq
composite added 0.34 percent to 2,458.69 points.


The Standard and Poor's 500 broad-market index edged up 0.11
percent to 1,439.37.


In Asian trading on Thursday, the Tokyo Stock Exchange's
Nikkei-225 index of leading shares fell 0.30 percent to close at
17,491.42 points.


Hong Kong's stock market was shut Thursday for the Chinese Ching
Ming festival and for the Easter break, with trading to resume on
Tuesday.

