

South Korea said Thursday it would send rice aid to North Korea
after a planned inter-Korean meeting this month despite likely
delays in shutting down its neighbour's nuclear weapons
programme.


Vice Unification Minister Shin Un-Sang said the delayed
implementation of the February 13 six-nation nuclear deal would
not affect the decision to send rice to its impoverished
communist neighbour.


He said the amount would be decided at an inter-Korean economic
meeting in Pyongyang from April 18-21.


"Sending rice aid is our official position, although a final
decision will be made at the economic meeting," Shin told a press
briefing.


The South suspended its regular annual shipments of 500,000 tons
of rice and 300,000 tons of fertiliser after the North's missile
tests last July. A nuclear test on October 9 further chilled the
atmosphere.


But Seoul resumed fertiliser shipments following progress at the
six-party nuclear disarmament talks and agreed in principle to
resume food aid.


The latest round of talks ended abruptly in Beijing last month
after the North refused to negotiate until it receives money from
its accounts with a Macau bank which had been frozen at US
instigation since 2005.


The United States has agreed to free up the funds, which were
supposed to be transferred within a month after the February deal
to a North Korean account with the Bank of China.


However, the state-owned Chinese lender has reportedly refused to
accept the money for fear of affecting its credit rating.


China's top negotiator with North Korea said Wednesday he doubts
whether Pyongyang will meet the April 14 deadline to shut down
and seal nuclear facilities under the first phase of the
disarmament deal.

