

A Japanese city on Thursday approved plans for the country's
first "baby hatch," where parents can drop off unwanted infants
anonymously, defying opposition from the conservative premier.


A Roman Catholic hospital in Kumamoto, a provincial city in
southern Japan, applied in December for official approval of the
system modeled on the "Babyklappe" in use in Germany.


"We have approved the plan by the hospital," Mayor Seishi Koyama
told reporters. "There is no legal basis to say that a baby hatch
violates any relevant laws."


Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who has campaigned for Japan to return
to "family values," said in February he felt "very strong
resistance" to the idea, arguing that it would discourage
parental responsibility.


But advocates say the baby hatch, if it becomes a trend, could
help boost the birth rate in Japan, where abortion is widely
accepted and adoption outside of extended families is rare.


"We will make our utmost efforts to make sure it is not simple
just to leave babies at the baby hatch and we will continue to
consult with the central government on the actual operation of
the hatch," the mayor said.


The system, said to be common in medieval Europe, was revived in
1996 by a Christian group in Germany.


The baby hatch at the Jikei Hospital in Kumamoto would be called
"the cradle of storks" and set up in the lobby like a post box,
according to hospital officials.


The cradle is equipped with a warmer and an alarm that goes off
when a baby is deposited.


Japan's population has been sinking since 2005 as more young
people choose to put off marriage. Out-of-wedlock births are
mostly taboo in Japan.

