

Japanese share prices took a step back on Thursday as investors
locked in profits after two days of strong gains, turning
cautious on the eve of key US jobs data, dealers said.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
fell 52.67 points or 0.30 percent to 17,491.42.


The TOPIX index of all issues on the Tokyo Stock Exchange's first
section shed 9.80 points or 0.57 percent to 1,720.72.


Decliners beat gainers 967 to 625, with 134 issues flat.


Volume fell to 2.14 billion shares from 2.31 billion on
Wednesday.


Hideyuki Suzuki, a strategist at SBI Securities, said the losses
"were simply due to profit-taking after two days of rallies."


The Nikkei 225 had gained more than 500 points in the past two
days.


"But there was selective buying of stocks such as those of some
high-tech companies," Suzuki said.


Some investors were also staying on the sidelines ahead of
closely watched US jobs data to be released Friday, dealers said.


Mitsushige Akino, chief fund manager at Ichiyoshi Management,
said the Nikkei's losses were quite modest after Wednesday's
gains of 300 points.


He said that the market had also been supported by the stability
of the yen and the steadiness of prices on Wall Street despite
the release overnight of data that gave mixed signals about the
US economy.


"Excessive worries about the US economy have receded, although
uncertainty still remains," Akino said.


Nintendo rose 550 yen or 1.6 percent to 34,300 after the company
said its earnings for the fiscal year ended March 31 would exceed
its forecasts because of strong sales of its game machines.


Oil shares fell after crude oil prices slipped following Iran's
decision to free 15 British sailors.


Inpex Holdings fell 25,000 yen or 2.5 percent to 975,000 and
Nippon Oil sagged by 32 yen or 3.4 percent to 914.


Among steel makers, Nippon Steel dropped 26 yen or 3.2 percent to
791, Sumitomo Metal Industries declined 16 yen or 2.7 percent to
576 and JFE Holdings was down 170 yen or 2.5 percent to 6,620.


Tyre makers were higher. Sumitomo Rubber gained 33 yen or 2.5
percent to 1,375, Bridgestone was up 20 yen or 0.8 percent at
2,450 and Toyo Tire and  Rubber was 10 yen or 2.0 percent higher
at 504.


Among other gainers, Hitachi rose 15 yen or 1.6 percent to 936,
Toshiba advanced 11 yen or 1.3 percent to 847 and Fujitsu gained
10 yen or 1.2 percent to 836.


On the foreign exchange market, the dollar was slightly down at
118.65 yen in Tokyo afternoon trade from 118.70 in New York late
Wednesday.


The euro was flat at 1.3366 dollars from 1.3367 but softened to
158.54 yen from 158.63.

