

Australian share prices are expected to be subdued next week,
calmed by a shortened trading week after hitting record highs
ahead of the Easter holiday, dealers said.


Investors can expect positive economic data releases later in the
week, with few surprises likely, they said, signalling that the
turbulence of recent weeks may be on pause.


For the week to April 5, the benchmark SP/ASX 200 closed up 82.1
points or 1.37 percent at 6,077.1, after hitting an all-time
record high of 6,097.2. on Wednesday.


"Our view remains that both global and Australian shares are on
track to provide solid gains for the rest of year," said AMP
Capital Investors head of investment strategy Shane Oliver.


The main event of the coming week will be unemployment figures
due out on Thursday and housing finance figures -- reflecting
housing credit -- which will be released Wednesday, analysts
said.


Economists are eagerly looking out for signs that may push the
Reserve Bank of Australia to increase interest rates when it
meets early next month, amid fears the economy could be
overheating.


The central bank surprised many economists this week when it left
the rate unchanged at 6.25 percent, prompting speculation that it
had simply delayed the hike.


John Capurso of Commonwealth Research said employment was
expected to rise when the figures are revealed next week.


"We expect employment to increase solidly by 25,000 and the
unemployment rate to stabilise at 4.6 percent," he said.


Commsec chief equities economist Craig James said next week would
also be quieter in the US markets and that Australian data
releases would likely be positive.


"The coming week's economic indicators should generally prove
healthy," he said.

