

UEFA has opened an investigation into crowd trouble during the
Champions League quarter final between AS Roma and Manchester
United, a spokesman for the governing body said Thursday.


Eleven United fans were hospitalised, one with a stab wound to
the neck, after violent clashes before Wednesday's match and
during the game itself, when Italian riot police baton-charged
the visiting supporters.


The UEFA spokesman, who declined to be named, told AFP that a
decision on whether or not go ahead with full disciplinary
charges was likely to be taken after the Easter break, on
Tuesday.


"An investigation is being opened. We're still waiting for the
match reports from officials to see if we open a disciplinary,"
he said.


Fans from both sides were involved in running battles outside the
stadium in Rome and police charged United fans after new
disturbances erupted following Roma's first goal in their 2-1
victory.


The spokesman said it was still unclear what charges might be
pressed.


The troubles came only a day after the Italian government passed
new laws in a bid to stamp out mounting football hooliganism in
recent months.


UEFA's new president, Michel Platini, has vowed "zero tolerance"
for violence on and off the field, and recently wrote to top
clubs and all federations in Europe to underline his stance.


World governing body FIFA's president Sepp Blatter warned last
month that violence on and off the pitch had driven football to a
crossroads.

