

Chinese share prices shrugged off early profit-taking to set
another record Thursday, adding 0.84 percent on continued fund
inflows, with financials and property developers in focus,
dealers said.


The latest gains mean the Shanghai Composite index has risen for
13 of the last 14 days, chalking up successive record highs at
the same time as investors anticipate more gains driven by fresh
fund inflows and a stronger yuan.


Dealers said larger institutional investors appear to be
preparing for the expected launch soon of stock index futures, a
key instrument used in developed markets to hedge risk and
leverage positions.


The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index, which covers both A- and
B-shares, rose 27.60 points to 3,319.14 on turnover of 114.50
billion yuan (14.77 billion dollars).


The Shanghai A-share Index was up 28.85 points or 0.83 percent to
3,488.36 on turnover of 113.86 billion yuan and the Shenzhen
A-share Index added 13.02 points or 1.44 percent at 916.10,
another record, on turnover of 56.88 billion yuan.


"In late afternoon trade, some institutional investors hunted for
bargains in financials, which have seen corrections in recent
sessions, in preparation for upcoming index futures," said Zhang
Yi, an analyst at Yibang Investment.


Dealers said the strong advance since the sharp sell-off at the
end of February appears to be justifed by expected strong
earnings growth this year, with investors looking forward.


"Overall price levels are indeed overvalued if you judge them by
static price- to-earnings ratios,but if you take into
consideration profit growth expectations for this year, current
prices can be well justified," said Zeng Bo, an analyst at
Changjiang Securities.


Hong Yuan Securities was up its 10 percent daily limit at 25.30
yuan while CITIC Securities added 3.17 yuan or 6.77 percent at
50.02.


Shanghai Pudong Development Bank was up 0.61 yuan or 2.14 percent
at 29.09.


Property developers were in favor again on recent yuan strength.
Beijing North Star was up 0.48 yuan or 5.44 percent at 9.31 and
Goldfield Industries added 0.77 yuan or 4.49 percent at 17.92.


Telecom stocks were hit after Datang Telecom Technology forecast
a net loss for 2006, due largely to depreciation costs, dealers
said.


Datang Telecom, a developer of China's TD-SCDMA technology for
third-generation mobile phones, was down its 10 percent daily
limit at 17.72 yuan.


Shanghai Automotive shed 0.15 yuan or 1.08 percent at 13.71 even
though it projected first quarter net profit growth of more than
300 percent.


The Shanghai B-share Index ended up 2.76 points or 1.51 percent
at 185.65 on turnover of 636.71 million US dollars and the
Shenzhen B-share Index was up 2.38 points or 0.44 percent at
538.38 on turnover of 612.81 million Hong Kong dollars (79.28
million US dollars).

