

Britain's consul general in Jerusalem met Palestinian prime
minister Ismail Haniya on Thursday to discuss efforts to free an
abducted British journalist, defying an EU boycott on Hamas
ministers.


Richard Makepeace arrived to Haniya's Gaza City office shortly
after 1 pm (1000 GMT) to discuss British correspondent Alan
Johnston, whose fate remains unknown more than three weeks after
he was grabbed by gunmen in the Gaza Strip.


The British consulate in Jerusalem downplayed the importance of
the meeting, the first between Haniya and an EU diplomat since a
Palestinian unity government took power on March 17.


"The consul general will meet Haniya only to discuss the
abduction of the British reporter. This meeting is strictly for
humanitarian reasons," an official at the consulate said.


Britain's Foreign office also said in a statement that the
meeting "does not change our normal policy on political contacts
with members of Hamas."


Britain and the European Union have refused to meet Hamas members
of the new unity government over the Islamic group's refusal to
recognise Israel's right to exist or renounce violence.


Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas told journalists rallying for
Johnston's release outside his Gaza City office that he had
discussed the case with British Foreign Minister Margaret Beckett
on Thursday.


"We working to obtain his release as soon as possible," Abbas
said.


Johnston, 44, is now in his fourth week of captivity after he was
abducted at gunpoint in Gaza City on March 12 -- the longest a
kidnapped foreigner has been kept in the increasingly lawless
territory.

