

Top-secret data on an advanced US military system was leaked
because Japanese officers were swapping porn files at work, a
newspaper said Thursday.


Japan is questioning a naval officer on charges he obtained
confidential data on the US-developed Aegis combat system, the
defence ministry said Wednesday.


But the Yomiuri Shimbun said the data was leaked when the petty
officer second class had copied pornographic images --
accompanied by the sensitive files -- from a colleague's computer
and circulated them to a third officer.


Police suspect senior officials might have been involved in the
porn swapping as the 33-year-old officer being questioned would
not have had access to the classified data, the newspaper said.


The petty officer said he did not know that the pornographic
images were accompanied by sensitive information, the Japanese
daily said, quoting Kanagawa prefectural police.


A police spokesman declined comment, saying the investigation was
ongoing.


The Aegis system has a cutting-edge radar and can launch missiles
at more than 10 targets at one time. The Japanese naval force has
five Aegis-equipped vessels.


The data found on the officer's computer included formulas for
the Aegis interceptor system and data on its radar's capacity to
track several targets at once, the Yomiuri said.


Other news reports said the issue came to light after the
officer's Chinese wife was arrested in late January for a visa
violation, alarming the US military.


The petty officer, whose name has not been disclosed, is a crew
member of a destroyer based in Yokosuka at the mouth of Tokyo
Bay.

