

Ferrari are on top and remain the team to beat at this weekend's
Malaysian Grand Prix, double world champion Spaniard Fernando
Alonso said on Thursday.


The McLaren-Mercedes driver arrived in Sepang in realistic mood
and stressed that Ferrari, who won the season-opening Australian
Grand Prix thanks to a perfect drive from new boy Finn Kimi
Raikkonen, remained favourites.


"It is nothing new that Ferrari are stronger than everyone else
at the start of the season and it is not a surprise for anybody
that they come here as favourites again and are ready to win,"
said Alonso.


"What we have to do is close the gap. We don't know how much it
will be in this race, but we saw in Australia that it was seven
or eight tenths.


"For sure we did one week testing here, we did some developments
on the car and improved the car but for sure everybody did the
same. I hope the gap is less, but for sure there are no surprises
for this Grand Prix.


"We will see a similar picture to Australia, with Ferrari in
front of everybody."


Alonso swept aside speculation that suggested Raikkonen's hopes
of a second win could be jeopardised by engine problems and
suggestions that a new FIA ruling on so-called 'moveable floors'
of cars would hit Ferrari's performance.


He said: "Well, we will see. I think the rules are the same for
everybody so hopefully if this floor issue is fixed, and it is
the same rule for everybody, then it can be a help for us.


"Maybe they had some advantage there, but I don't think it will
be a change like day and night. I don't know if they will lose
performance but if they do then I think it will not be a
significant performance loss that we can win the races now."

