

China's central bank on Thursday ordered major commercial banks
to set aside more money in reserves in an effort to slow its
economy, the third such cooling measure of 2007.


The People's Bank of China said in a statement the action was
designed to enhance bank liquidity management and prevent
excessively fast credit growth.


It said the required deposit reserve ratio for most commercial
lenders would rise on April 16 by 0.5 percentage point to 10.5
percent.


The required deposit ratio was raised a similar 0.5 percentage
point in January and February this year and three times in 2006.


Last month, the benchmark one-year lending rate was raised by
0.27 percentage points.


China's booming economy, the world's fourth largest, expanded by
10.7 percent in 2006 and is likely to grow by 10 percent in 2007,
the central bank said last week.


The central bank is fighting a rising tide of liquidity stemming
from export earnings as well as outstanding sterilisation paper
that is reaching maturity.


Sterilisation is a technical term for central bank operations
aimed at curbing liquidity rising as a result of an influx of
foreign funds in a tightly controlled exchange rate regime such
as China's.


It issued 966 billion yuan (125 billion dollars) worth of
sterilisation paper in March alone, for a total of approximately
1.82 trillion yuan so far this year, according to Stone and
McCarthy Research Associates.


That marks a new record and is equivalent to half of last year's
estimated 3.65 trillion yuan worth of central bank paper sold
into the market.


A trader with one large state-owned commercial bank in Shanghai
said that reserve requirement adjustments will become an
increasingly common occurrence.


"We're getting used to this by now," he said, noting that over
900 billion yuan in maturing sterilisation paper alone is due to
hit the market in the current quarter.

