

Australian share prices closed 0.30 percent lower Thursday,
slipping off record highs as investors took profits ahead of the
long Easter weekend, dealers said.


Players were cautious ahead of key US non-farm payrolls data that
was due Friday, giving American markets time to ract while their
Australian counterparts are closed Friday and Monday for public
holidays, they said.


The benchmark SP/ASX 200 lost 20.1 points at 6,077.1 while the
broader All Ordinaries index fell 15.6 points to 6,063.4 at the
end of the shortened trading day.


But despite the market coming off its highs spurred by a flurry
of acquisitions, AMP Capital Investors head of investment
strategy Shane Oliver said the Australian market looked set to
maintain its recent upward trend.


"Our view remains that both global and Australian shares are on
track to provide solid gains for the rest of year," he said.


Turnover was 1.54 billion shares worth 5.03 billion dollars (4.1
billion US), with rises outnumbering falls 601 to 538 and 378
stocks unchanged.


There was profit taking in leading resources stocks BHP Billiton
and Rio Tinto, which led wider market down after Wednesday's
solid gains from the miners.


BHP Billiton dropped 0.31 dollars to finish at 30.33, while Rio
Tinto lost 0.66 to 80.33.


US drilling services company Boart Longyear slipped 0.05 dollars
from its issue price of 1.85 dollars after debuting on the
Australian Stock Exchange to close to end at 1.80.


Australian retial giant Coles Group Ltd, the target of a 19.7
billion dollars takeover by diversified conglomerate Wesfarmers,
was one of only a few leading stocks that moved upwards, rising
11 cents to close at 16.97 dollars.


Dealers said Coles investors were hopeful of a rival bid from
private equity firms following Wesfarmers' move earlier this
week.


The 10-year bond yield rose 0.0155 to 5.8955 pct while 90-day
bills shed 0.013 to 6.460 percent.


Major banking stocks were mixed, with National Australia Bank up
0.05 to  close at 41.25, Commonwealth Bank up 0.13 to 51.13 and
Macquarie Bank rose 0.32 to close at 84.50, while ANZ fell 0.29
to 29.55 and Westpac slipped 0.3 to 26.14.


In the media sector, which has been rising due to a relaxation of
ownership rules that came into force Wednesday, Fairfax added
0.01 to 5.11 but Rural Press, with which Fairfax has merged,
eased 0.03 to 13.85.


One of the major players expected to take advantage of the new
cross-ownership rules, Seven Network fell 0.05 to 11.32, while
Publlishing and Broadcasting Ltd. shed 0.10 to 20.11 and Austar
slipped 0.025 to 1.67.


Qantas rose 0.07 to 5.25, Virgin Blue added 0.01 to 2.63 and Toll
Holdings jumped 0.64 to 22.13.

