

An Oregon state health official said tainted pet food is believed
the cause of at least 38 pet deaths and 70 afflicted in the
state, the Oregonian newspaper reported Thursday.


Emilio DeBess, Oregon's state public health veterinarian, said he
had tallied altogether 106 cases of poisoning believed arising
from pet food, far more than federal health authorities had
reported in the three-week old scandal.


DeBess said the stricken animals included 69 cats and 37 dogs,
and that he was not surprised by the toll, the newspaper
reported.


"We expected that it would get to 100. And I think we're going to
see more cases," he told the newspaper.


Last week the US Federal Drug Administration scientists
identified melamine, a substance used in fertilizer in Asia and
also an ingredient in producing some plastics, in wheat gluten in
Canadian pet food blamed for killing a handful of cats and dogs
across North America, US officials and experts said Friday.


Canadian-based petfoods maker Menu Foods has recalled dozens of
products, and several other US petfood producers also began
pulling their products off store shelves.


On Saturday Hill's Pet Nutrition, which sells special cat diet
foods through veterinarians, recalled one of its products which
was believed to contain the tainted wheat gluten.


Investigations have so far pointed the finger at Chinese
suppliers of wheat gluten to pet food makers.


On March 30 the FDA ordered its field personnel to detain wheat
gluten imported from China's Xuzhou Anying Biologic Technology
Development Co because it contained melamine.


But China's General Administration of Quality Supervision,
Inspection and Quarantine denied that the country had exported
contaminated pet food ingredients, according to the official
People's Daily newspaper Tuesday.


"The poisoning of US pets has nothing to do with China," the
report said.

