

Several of the British sailors captured and dramatically freed by
Iran were shown celebrating news of their release and praising
the conditions they were kept in on Iranian television late
Wednesday.


Leading Seaman Faye Turney -- the only woman in the 15-strong
group -- plus Lieutenant Felix Carman and Captain Chris Air were
pictured shaking hands, laughing and embracing each other in
relief.


Turney even waved to the camera and said "Teshakkor" -- "thank
you" in Persian.


"I feel just relieved, happy to go home, the treatment here has
just been great but it will be nice to get back, get home and see
my family," the married mother-of-one said.


Asked if she had a message for the Iranian people, she added:
"Just thank you for letting us go, and apologise for our
actions."


In pictures screened by Britain's Sky News television, Carman
spoke of how the group had been "treated with a great deal of
respect and dignity. All our needs have been catered for."


"To Iranian people, I can understand why you were insulted by our
apparent intrusion into your waters," he went on.


"I'd like to say no harm was meant to Iranian people or its
territories whatsoever...I hope that this experience will help to
build the relationship between our countries."


Air also stressed that the group had been treated "very well" and
shown "respect for all of our rights".


"They have taken care of us medically and physically and given us
plenty of food and water and looked after all our comforts," he
said.


"No-one has been harmed in any way, so I just want to make sure
that some rumours that have been going around are totally
untrue."


The group are flying home to Britain Thursday after Iranian
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad freed them in a shock announcement
at the end of a lengthy press conference Wednesday.


The eight sailors and seven marines were captured on March 23.
Britain insisted they were in Iraqi territorial waters, while
Tehran said they were in Iranian waters.

