

Kosovo's parliament adopted a declaration Thursday unanimously
supporting a UN plan to grant the disputed Serbian province
internationally supervised independence.


"The Kosovo parliament accepts and promises to implement
completely the agreement for the status of Kosovo presented by UN
Secretary General (Ban Ki- moon) to the Security Council," the
declaration said.


"The Kosovo parliament welcomes unreservedly the future
international civil and military presence in Kosovo ... and
promises to support and cooperate with this presence in every
possible aspect."


On Tuesday, UN envoy Martti Ahtisaari briefed the Security
Council as the 15-member body debated the future status of ethnic
Albanian majority Kosovo for the first time.


The Finish diplomat's recommendation for internationally
supervised independence has been backed by Kosovo Albanians, the
European Union and United States, but rejected by Serbia and
veto-wielding council member Russia.


Traditional Serbian ally Russia has proposed the appointment of a
new negotiator in the hope of keeping talks open in an effort to
try to reach a compromise.


Moscow has also proposed a Security Council fact finding mission
be sent to Kosovo and Serbian capital Belgrade before the body
considers any resolution on its future status.


Kosovo newspapers quoted unnamed Western diplomats as saying that
the Security Council would decide on the Russian request within
the next three days.


Up for consideration was the composition of the mission and the
length of its stay in the region, according to the diplomats.


Kosovo, a southern province of Serbia, has been administered by a
UN mission since mid-1999, after a NATO bombing campaign ended a
brutal crackdown by Serbian forces against ethnic Albanians.

