

Sterling fell Thursday on data revealing that British
manufacturing output weakened unexpectedly in February, as the
market geared up for the Bank of England's latest decision on
interest rates, traders said.


Elsewhere in early European trade, the euro edged up to 1.3369
dollars, from 1.3367 dollars late in New York on Wednesday.


The dollar climbed to 118.82 yen in European trade, compared with
118.70 late on Wednesday.


The British pound dropped against the euro and dollar after
official data showed Britain's manufactured output slid by 0.6
percent in February from the January figure, marking the
strongest monthly decline since October 2005.


Analysts' consensus forecast had been for an output rise in
February of 0.3 percent.


"These output numbers are surprisingly weak and fell well short
of our expectations and that of the consensus," Calyon analyst
Daragh Maher said.


"With today's outcome on the (Bank of England's) monetary policy
committee so finely balanced, any softness in the data will
provoke a currency response and sterling has suffered as a
consequence," he added.


The British rate decision has become a close call, with analysts
unsure whether the central bank will decide to hold borrowing
costs at 5.25 percent, or implement a quarter-point hike to 5.50
percent.


Elsewhere, the dollar steadied against the euro and yen ahead of
key US jobs data due on Friday.


CMC Markets chief analyst Ashraf Laidi said a rise to the
unemployment rate would indicate future rate easing by the US
Federal Reserve.


"In the event that the jobless rate rises to 4.6 percent from 4.5
percent along with a payrolls (number) remaining lower than
110-120,000, markets will deem the report as an additional step
to a June rate cut," he said.


The dollar had been hit overnight by soft economic data,
offsetting a boost from news that Iran would free the British
captives.


The Institute of Supply Management's non-manufacturing index fell
in March, while the market had expected it to rise. The data
raised concerns that the US service sector could face trouble
along with manufacturing.


The euro was changing hands at 1.3369 dollars, against 1.3367
dollars on Wednesday, 158.75 yen (158.63), 0.6773 pounds (0.6752)
and 1.6316 Swiss francs (1.6307).


The dollar stood at 118.82 yen (118.70) and 1.2205 Swiss francs
(1.2197).


The pound was being traded at 1.9738 dollars (1.9759).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold advanced to
673.60 dollars per ounce, from 672.25 dollars late on Wednesday.

