

An Australian mining firm said Thursday it had received a licence
to construct a 185 million US dollar project to mine uranium in
northern Malawi.


The project, hailed as Malawi's biggest investment ever, had been
delayed by an an environmental impact assessment, with rights
groups arguing the project could be environmentally hazardous.


"Yes, we received a licence and approval of the environmental
impact assessment a week ago and we hope to start mining at the
end of 2008," Martin McAllen, a representative of Paladin Africa
Limited, told AFP.


Paladin Africa, a subsidiary of Australia's Paladin Resources
Ltd, and the Malawi government last month signed a 10-year
development agreement for the project, located at Kayelekera, 40
kilometres (30 miles) west of Karonga district.


Uranium mining is expected to earn 220 million US dollars (165
million euros) annually in export earnings for the impoverished
southeastern African nation, representing about 10 percent of
gross national product and 40 percent of current export income.


Right groups were concerned the project could pollute Lake
Malawi, Africa's third largest freshwater lake and a source of
clean water, protein through fish and employment for millions of
Malawians.


"No process or waste waters will be directly discharged into the
environment or the rivers, but will be captured in and stored in
specially designed dams and ponds," McAllen said.


The mine will produce about 1,500 metric tonnes of natural
uranium oxide -- used to manufacture fuel for nuclear electricity
power stations --  annually over the first seven years of its
operation.


Paladin's social obligations under the accord will include
building modern primary and secondary schools and health
facilities worth 10 million US dollars within Kayelekera.


The country has an annual per capita income of 210 US dollars.
About 65 percent of its 12 million population lives below the
poverty line and earn less than a dollar a day.

