

There is a "strong possibility" two French aid workers missing in
southwestern Afghanistan for two days have been kidnapped by the
Taliban, a security official said Thursday.


The pair have been out of contact with their organisation Terre
d'Enfance (A World for Our Children) since Tuesday when they were
travelling with three Afghan colleagues from the province of
Nimroz towards the city of Herat.


The Taliban claimed late Wednesday to have captured the five but
this could not be independently confirmed.


A high-ranking Afghan security official said however on condition
of anonymity: "There's a strong possibility that they've been
kidnapped."


Asked who might have been behind their kidnapping, he said,
"Obviously the Taliban."


If confirmed as a kidnapping, it would be the second such case
involving foreign nationals in a month. An Italian journalist was
kidnapped March 5 by the Taliban in Helmand province, which
adjoins Nimroz.


Daniele Mastrogiacomo was released two weeks later, after the
government freed five Taliban prisoners including some high-
profile figures.


Critics of the controversial deal said the exchange of the
journalist for Taliban could lead to more such kidnappings by
militants and criminals.


The Taliban are still holding Mastrogiacomo's translator, Afghan
reporter Ajmal Naqshbandi, and have demanded the release of two
more Taliban in exchange for his freedom. The rebels have
beheaded a third man captured with them.


Police have launched "a very serious search and investigation"
for the missing French nationals and their Afghan assistants,
interior ministry spokesman Zemarai Bashary said.


The French embassy in Kabul said it could not comment on the
case.

