

Pope Benedict XVI opened Easter celebrations with a Holy Thursday
mass in St Peter's Basilica, to be followed by the ceremony of
the washing of the feet at Rome's Basilica San Giovanni in
Laterano.


Holy Thursday, for Christians, recalls Christ's last supper with
his disciples before his arrest and crucifixion. The rite of the
eucharist -- the sharing of bread and wine -- commemorates this
meal.


The Gospels say that Jesus, both God and man at the same time,
washed the feet of the apostles on this occasion to signify that
he was putting himself at the service of humanity.


During the chrismal mass, celebrated by bishops of every diocese
in the Catholic world, the oil to be used in the coming year for
baptisms and other sacraments is blessed, and all priests renew
their vows.


In his homily Thursday, Benedict evoked the Russian writer Leon
Tolstoy who spoke of "the love of the crucified Christ" who was
solely able to "lend his whiteness to our dirty clothes, to lend
his truth and light to our darkened spirit."


On Good Friday the pope will preside over the "celebration of the
Passion" at St Peter's Basilica before proceeding to the
Colosseum, in central Rome, where he will mark the traditional
stations of the cross.


Saturday evening Benedict will return to St Peter's for an Easter
vigil.


Easter Mass on Sunday will be celebrated in St Peter's Square, to
be followed by the pope's blessing known as "urbi et orbi" (to
the city and the world).

