

The 15 British naval personnel freed by Iran will be taken to a
"secure location" to be debriefed on their two weeks in captivity
when they land on home soil Thursday, officials said.


"The plane will be landing and then they will be whisked into a
helicopter and taken to a secure location. I don't know where," a
spokesman for the British Airports Authority told AFP.


A defence ministry spokesman said there would be no press
conference at Heathrow airport, west of London, where the British
Airways flight carrying the group is due to touch down at
Terminal Four at 12:05 pm (1105 GMT).


They will be taken from there to Royal Marines Base Chivenor in
Devon, south- west England, to be debriefed and reunited with
their families in private.


A spokesman for the Devonport Naval Base in nearby Plymouth --
the home base of HMS Cornwall, the ship which the crew were
serving on -- said the debrief would last "hours, not days."


"I would imagine they will be given a check-over medically, they
will be speaking to some of their military commanders to find out
what happened," the defence ministry spokesman said.


"Then I imagine they will be given some time with their
families."


He added that he thought that they "won't feel up to" speaking to
the media until Friday.


The group flew out of Tehran 14 days after they were seized by
Iran, which accused them of violating the country's territorial
waters.


They were released following a surprise announcement by Iranian
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad at a press conference Wednesday
that they would be given their liberty "as a gift to the British
people."

