

Italian Giorgio Ascanelli, who was unveiled as Torro Rossi's new
technical director here on Thursday, said he was in a hurry to
bring glory to the team.


Ascanelli, a close friend of the team-owner Austrian Gerhard
Berger, said he was ready to make immediate changes to the staff
and wanted to take responsibility for all the big decisions.


"There is no time to waste in Formula One," he said.


"The time to market in F1 is five days. The point is that there
are things that you have to think about, and the other one is
that you have to take responsibility for taking decisions.


"You cannot just sit here or stand around and think. There are
already some things I have already decided to move."


Ascanelli was once the race engineer to both Berger and the late
world champion Brazilian Ayrton Senna during the heyday of the
McLaren team in the late 1980s.


He was appointed to his new role earlier in the week and
introduced to the media in the Sepang paddock on Thursday.


His brief is to improve the Italy-based team's form swiftly and
dramatically. They won just won point in the 2006 championship.


"My father taught me two things. The first one was that to react
to a problem you need to establish what the problem is. And the
first way to fix a problem is to realise that you have one," he
said.


"There are things that I obviously don't like, but I think they
(the team) obviously don't like. And if there are the things that
don't make us happy then there must be a reason."


He said he was convinced that the team has the talent to be
successful in F1. He said that he is looking forward to working
with Berger and team principal Franz Tost.


"We all have to make this team work-- it is not just the top two
persons," he added. "The management draw the lines but it is up
to everybody to make it happen."

