

China's deputy central bank governor Thursday told bankers in
India's financial hub the country would aim to reduce a yawning
trade gap with the US and other countries and open its economy
further.


China has already taken measures to curtail the large trade
surplus, Deputy Governor of the People's Bank of China, Wu
Xiaoling told reporters on the sidelines of a bankers'
conference.


China faces huge pressure on its balance of payments account
which "is not good for the sustainable development of the
country," she said.


Last year, the United States recorded a record trade deficit with
China of 232 billion dollars -- more than a quarter of its total
imbalance.


The gap has led to repeated calls by US lawmakers for China to
revalue its currency, the yuan, which they say is kept weak to
encourage exports.


As well, in March Washington said it would slap duties on imports
of Chinese coated paper, reversing a 23-year-old US policy of not
applying duties to subsidised goods from so-called non-market
economies such as China.


Wu added that in addition to opening the Chinese economy to
greater foreign investment, more measures would be taken to
enlarge domestic demand including its banking sector.


"We will encourage more foreign financial institutions to provide
services in the hinterland and rural areas, and design products
to support private consumption," Wu said.


A stream of US delegations to China over the past few months have
also called on Beijing to increase reforms in the financial
sector to give greater flexibility to the yuan.


She said however that new steps on the exchange rate are not
likely now, especially since the yuan gained nearly six percent
against the dollar since July 2005 when it allowed the currency
to trade in a wider band.

