

Two nine-month-old Thai girls have been separated in what the
hospital said Thursday was the world's first successful operation
on conjoined twins whose hearts and livers were connected.


Pantawan and Panwad Thiyenjai were separated in late February by
a team of 61 medical staff including five heart surgeons at
Bangkok's Siriraj hospital, after 12 hours on the operating
table.


"From our research, there are no twins who were connected by
their hearts and livers who survived. This is the first time in
the world," said Piyasakol Sakolsatayathorn, the dean for
Siriraj's medical science faculty.


"They both recovered well," he told reporters.


The hospital delayed making an announcement about the procedure
until doctors were sure that the girls had a good chance of
survival.


The girls were born by Caesarean section last June, and were
connected from the top of their chests to the bottom of their
abdomens. Pantawan and Panwad underwent surgery at eight-months-
old.


First-time mother Usa Thiyenjai, 29, said she did want to have
anymore children because she was afraid they too would be
conjoined.


"I pray and beg to Buddha to help my daughters. I intend to raise
them as best as I can," said Usa, a native from Thailand's
northern province of Phrae, who now works at a frozen food
company outside Bangkok.


Thailand, known as Siam until 1939, has a long history of famous
conjoined twins. Chang and Eng Bunker, born here in 1811, were
one of the first sets of conjoined twins to be shown to the
world, coining the phrase "Siamese Twins".


Both travelled to United States and later married two American
sisters and had more than 20 children between them.

