

The German presidency of the European Union vowed on Thursday to
work towards gaining the support of member states for new trade
accords with African, Caribbean and Pacific nations by the end of
2007.


"The offer made by the Commission is a very important step
towards the realisation of the EU's commitment to make the
Economic Partnership Agreement into an instrument for poverty
reduction," German Development Minister Heidemarie Wieczorek-Zeul
said in a statement.


"We in Germany will now go to work on reaching a common position
among the EU member states, so that, on the European side,
nothing more stands in the way of successfully concluding the
negotiations by the end of the year."


The EU offered on Wednesday to scrap most tariffs and quotas on
exports from 78 African, Caribbean and Pacific nations, known
collectively as the ACP, in order to boost talks on new trade
pacts.


The EU's executive arm, the European Commission, and the ACP are
attempting to make progress to conclude new trade agreements by
the end of the year, when a current preferential market access
accord is due to expire.


Under the European Union's new offer, all quotas and tariffs on
ACP goods would be lifted immediately once a deal was signed,
with the exception of rice and sugar.


However, the negotiator for the Caribbean ACP countries slammed
the offer as "derisory", owing to the exceptions on rice and
sugar, and warned it could cause more harm than good.

