

Australian Prime Minister John Howard on Thursday welcomed the
release of 15 British sailors held captive by Iran for two weeks
but condemned Teheran's action as "indefensible."


Howard, whose government has military personnel deployed in the
same area where the British crew was captured, also praised
Britain's "sensible" approach to successfully securing their
release.


"I want to welcome on behalf of Australia the resolution of the
hostage crisis," Howard told reporters. "It's good for the sake
of the sailors and their families that this matter has been
resolved.


"It was of course an indefensible action in the first place but
we are all very happy it's been resolved.


"It reflects credit on the sensible and balanced approach taken
by the British government, in particular its Prime Minister Tony
Blair," he added.


Howard refused to be drawn on whether Australian troops could be
at risk of being taken hostage but reminded the public of the
dangers they routinely faced.


Foreign Minister Alexander Downer also hailed the release of the
British sailors and said he had informed Iran's Foreign Minister
Manouchehr Mottaki of Canberra's concerns.


"I emphasised to Mr Mottaki that Australian defence force
personnel serve in a similar area of the Gulf and that I shared
UK concerns over the incident.


"Australia appreciates, of course, that Iran and the United
Kingdom do not agree on the location of the UK sailors at the
time of their detention.


"I am pleased, however, that the matter has resolved through
diplomacy," he said.


London says the 15 British sailors, who were captured on March
23, were in Iraqi waters, while Teheran says their vessel strayed
into Iran.


The 15 sailors headed home Thursday after their detention
triggered a tense international standoff.

