

China called Thursday on the parties involved in talks on North
Korea's nuclear programme to show flexibility as a deadline for
implementing the first steps of a breakthrough deal approached.


"We hope all parties involved show flexibility and make a
constructive effort to find a solution to the current problems
that addresses the concerns of all and is acceptable to all,"
foreign ministry spokesman Qin Gang said.


"It is in the interest of all parties to push the six-party talks
forward and ensure a nuclear-free North Korean peninsula."


His remarks came after reports in the Japanese media Wednesday
citing China's top negotiator Wu Dawei expressing doubts North
Korea would meet an April 14 deadline to shut down its nuclear
facilities in line with the deal.


China is North Korea's main ally and the broker of the six-nation
talks that led to the February 13 agreement with nuclear-armed
Pyongyang.


Under the deal, North Korea promised to shut down and seal its
plutonium- producing Yongbyon reactor and other plants by April
14 in exchange for energy aid and diplomatic concessions.


"All parties concerned should make active and constructive
efforts in order to implement the February 13 agreement," Qin
said.


"China is willing to continue active and constructive talks with
all relevant parties, including the Macau government."


Qin was referring to an ongoing impasse over North Korea's
refusal to talk until it receives 25 million dollars of its funds
frozen in a Macau bank.


Washington in 2005 blacklisted the money in Macau due to
accusations of money laundering and counterfeiting. It announced
the end of the sanctions last month and said it was up to the
Macau authorities to release the cash.


But the funds were not transferred, amid reports that it was hard
to find a bank willing to handle the cash. Further complicating
matters, some of the money also belongs to individuals, rather
than the North Korean government.

