

US House speaker Nancy Pelosi's visit to Syria shows the
importance of dialogue, the government daily Tishrin said on
Thursday despite the White House's continued efforts to isolate
Damascus.


"The main conclusions from the Syrian-American meetings underline
the importance of dialogue in resolving disputes, as well as
Syria's attachment to a just and comprehensive peace in the
region," Tishrin wrote in an editorial.


Pelosi's visit on Wednesday at the head of a congressional
delegation was the first by such a high-ranking US official in
years and angered the White House which believes in keeping
regional foe Syria isolated.


"For Syria, dialogue with the United States is not an objective
in itself but a means of paving the way" to peace, Tishrin said,
after Syrian President Bashar al-Assad reportedly told Pelosi he
was ready to talk peace with Israel.


Damascus "has no demands other than those expressed by the
international community and its resolutions relative to the
conflict in the region," it said, in apparent reference to UN
Security Council resolutions on Israel.


"In other words, Syria wants to recover its land and the
liberation of occupied Arab land with a view to reaching peace
and stability in the region," Tishrin wrote.


The key issue between Israel and Syria is the Golan Heights,
captured by Israel in 1967 and annexed in 1981. Previous peace
talks have faltered on the issue of the strategic plateau.


"There is a real hope for continuing the dialogue, for a better
American understanding of Syrian policy and for shared efforts
towards peace in the region, far from partiality and threats,"
the paper said.


Pelosi said she undertook the trip to follow up on
recommendations by the bipartisan Iraq Study Group, which had
urged Washington to engage Syria and Iran in quelling the
conflict in neighbouring Iraq.

