

The British sailors released by Iran expressed both happiness and
anxiety on Thursday as they preparted for emotional reunions with
their families following their return home.


"It's a mixture of excitement and a bit of nerves actually about
coming back to the UK and seeing our families as they have gone
through such a traumatic time," said one of the men, Felix
Carman, in new footage broadcast on Iranian television.


"It's excitement and bit of nerves," Carman told the television
while waiting to board the plane to London.


"I could not sleep last night. I was too excited about thinking
about meeting family and friends and seeing everyone again and
going home," said another sailor, who could not be identified.


"It's a very confused feeling. Excitement and nervousness all at
the same time," he added in the footage, which was shown in the
orginal English on the state broadcaster's afternoon news
bulletin.


Their plane arrived in London on Thursday afternoon and the 15
were being  taken for debriefing and to meet their families.


Carman said that when he is interviewed by British media at home
he would say nothing different to comments he has made in Iran
about being well treated by the authorities.


"I would not say anything different to here and I will be
completely truthful. I will definitely promote Iran actually,
there is a lot of ignorance in the UK about Iran and the people."


Faye Turney, the sole female captive said: "It's just a feeling
of relief that I am going home to see my daughter and my family."


"We had had a very pleasant stay under the conditions we were in.
Obviously we were not tourists. All the treatment has been
fantastic towards us and there is no bad feeling at all towards
Iran."

