

Slovakia's economy is on track for further expansion and the
country should meet adoption criteria for the euro in early 2009,
the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development said
Thursday.


"Slovakia is well positioned to meet the conditions for euro
adoption in 2009," OECD Secretary General Angel Gurria told a
Bratislava news conference as he presented the report on
Slovakia.


Eurozone criteria for public deficit, overall debt and inflation
appeared to be within reach without problems, he added.


Slovakia's "stellar economic performance," with record 8.3
percent growth last year, should continue at around 7.5 percent
this year and 8.0 percent in 2008, before falling back to roughly
5.25 percent in 2005, 30-nation OECD said.


The upbeat report nonetheless contained some warnings for the
small former communist Central European country and the left-wing
dominated coalition government of Robert Fico, which swept to
power in June 2006.


Fico's government, which raised the minimum wage by 10.1 percent
as one of its first moves in October, should weigh carefully the
consequences on the economy and employment market, especially for
low skilled workers, before further increases, the report warned.


Steps to rewrite existing labour laws, which is some cases would
boost social equity by giving part time workers a fairer deal,
should also avoid creating extra obstacles, it added.


In spite of significant steps to reduce the jobless total to 13.0
percent last year, long-term unemployment at around 10.0 percent
is still the highest in the OECD and requires more government
action.


The report suggested incentives for lowest paid workers, which
would also help tackle poverty, and moves to encourage workers to
move to where jobs are on offer.


The OECD is an international economics institution that counts
many of the world's most industrialised countries as members.

