

Iraqi security forces are set to take control from foreign troops
of a fourth province in the violence-plagued country this month,
Iraqi and British officials said on Thursday.


"The timetable for our armed forces to receive national
responsibility is accelerating. And this month, multi-national
forces will transfer security responsibility to the authorities
in Maysan," a statement from Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki's
office said.


"The prime minister hereby authorises the governor of Maysan to
receive security responsibility from the multinational forces in
another achievement for the people of the province."


British Lieutenant Colonel Kavin Stratford-Wright confirmed that
troops were working towards transferring Iraqi control in the
southern province of Maysan, which shares a border with Iran, in
April.


"That transfer to provincial Iraqi control is projected to be
this month. At that point, the responsibility is theirs and we'd
only intervene in a security situation at their request," he told
AFP from the southern city of Basra where British troops are
based.


"This is a positive thing. We're pleased the Iraqi prime minister
has made this decision. It's an indication of further progress in
the south," he said.


Maysan province will be the fourth out of Iraq's 18 provinces
handed over to Iraqi security control and the third transferred
by British-led troops since July.


In August, British troops had handed over security in Amara, the
capital of Maysan, but retained other regions of the province.


Stratford-Wright said multinational troops would continue to be
in Maysan and would also retain forces on the border after the
transfer.


Prime Minister Tony Blair told parliament in February that the
number of British troops would likely drop to 5,000 by the end of
the year, compared to about 7,200 deployed in the country today.

