

The Zimbabwean government is set to take measures against firms
that closed or supported a two day strike by the country's main
labour body this week, state media said on Thursday.


Industry Minister Obert Mpofu was quoted as saying by the Herald
newspaper that he had asked firms which did not open for business
on Tuesday and Wednesday to submit their reasons within the next
24 hours.


"We are receiving reports on other businesses that sympathised
with the organisers of the stayaway and we are going to deal with
them," Mpofu said.


"We want to identify those abetting the stayaway so that we can
confront them and find what their motives and agendas are.


"We will actually invoke certain measures which will not be very
comfortable with them. We cannot afford to stand by and watch
people misbehaving."


Mpofu said business organisations have been hiking prices at
will, a move government had tolerated for too long.


"Now they (businesses) are actually sympathising with our
detractors and tampering with the lifeline of our economy," he
said.


There was no immediate reaction from business organisations.


Offices and factories in Zimbabwe's two main cities were
operating as normal Wednesday on the second day of a 48-hour
strike called by the main labour organisation over the deepening
economic crisis.


The first day of the job boycott on Tuesday was partially
observed as some workers did not turn up for work whilst some
firms did not open.


On Tuesday, the government had declared the two day stoppage as
"dismal failure".


The southern Africa nation's economy has been on a downward
spiral for the last seven years, characterised by runaway
inflation and perennial shortages of basic commodities.


Its annual rate of inflation, already the highest in the world,
should hit 4,000 percent by year-end, according to the
International Monetary Fund (IMF).

