

Australian all-rounder James Hopes said Thursday that replacing
the injured Shane Watson in a World Cup semi-final would be
daunting but that he would relish the challenge.


Reigning champions Australia placed Hopes on standby Wednesday to
cover for Queensland team-mate Watson, whose place is in doubt
after he sustained a left calf muscle strain in the 10-wicket win
against Bangladesh in Antigua last week.


Hopes told reporters in Brisbane he has been training in secret
to prove his fitness since being told on Monday he was in line to
go to the World Cup if needed.


The 28-year-old Hopes, a medium-pace all-rounder like Watson, has
played nine one-day internationals for Australia, but has been
out of action for a month since he suffered a hip-flexor injury.


But despite the break he said the thought of making his World Cup
debut was tantalising.


"If I had to walk into a World Cup semi-final it would be
daunting but it's a challenge I'd like to face and it would be a
place to make a name for yourself," he said.


"I've seen most conditions and played in them so I'll back myself
to perform in one-day cricket wherever it's played and if it's in
a World Cup semi-final it will be a World Cup semi-final."


Hopes, who played the last of his nine one-dayers a year ago in
Bangladesh,  was this summer shut out by Victorian Cameron
White's explosive batting at number seven in the tri-series.


But despite being put on standby, he is not convinced he will get
the chance to play in the World Cup.


"I'm preparing to play but I'm assuming Shane's injury isn't that
bad," Hopes said.


"I'll be surprised. I think he'll stick this one out."


Australia still intend giving Watson as much time as possible to
return for the semi-finals in just over a fortnight but are aware
they need a like-for-like replacement in case he fails to
recover.

