

Malaysian Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi urged the
country's workforce to be more competitive and move towards a
knowledge-based economy, in comments Tuesday marking May Day.


Abdullah said Malaysia's ability to compete in the face of
increasing  regional competition hinged on the quality and
productivity of its workers.


"The country needs trained and skilled workers in various fields
and the need is escalating in line with the trend toward a
knowledge-economy," he said, adding that "Malaysia cannot
continue to depend on cheap labour cost."


Abdullah, who took over as premier in 2003, has introduced a
broad economic plan with less reliance on the labour-intensive
construction and manufacturing sectors -- traditionally the
cornerstone of the country's economy.


He said Malaysia's goal of becoming a developed nation needs the
commitment of workers, "to equip themselves with the
characteristics and attitude of a society with first-class
mentality."


Top opposition lawmaker Lim Kit Siang told AFP that despite
promises by the government to invest more in developing human
capital, the condition of workers was largely unchanged.


"The economy has moved towards a knowledge-based economy but it
is not because of the prime minister's leadership. There are
still no major changes in labour laws," Lim said.


"All the talk about developing human capital has yet to bring
about meaningful changes to improve the standard of living of
workers in reality, who are faced with ever-increasing living
costs," he said.

