

Riot police backed by military reservists fanned out across the
Philippine capital Tuesday as thousands of Filipino workers took
to the streets for May Day celebrations.


Numbers were down considerably on previous years as unseasonally
hot weather sent temperatures on the streets of Manila way above
40 degrees Celsius (104 Fahrenheit).


An estimated 5,000 people waving red banners with the Communist
gold hammer and sickle were blocked by riot police as they tried
to march on the presidential palace.


The crowd, led by the Alliance of Progressive Labor (APL) and the
fringe political party Akbayan, faced off with police for more
than an hour before turning around and heading off to Manila
University nearby.


Waving red flags and raising their fist, the workers the
resignation of President Gloria Arroyo.


"Workers, link together against Gloria," read one banner.


The Workers Party attacked Arroyo for providing "band-aid
solutions" to the problem of massive unemploment and called for
an across-the-board wage hike.


There were no reports of violence but police and military forces
had warned they would crush any attempts by anti-government
groups to use May Day to destabilise the government.


In 2001, supporters of deposed populist president Joseph Estrada
used the occasion to march on the palace and demand that he be
reinstalled.


The march degenerated into the worst rioting in Manila since the
fall for dictator Ferdinand Marcos in 1986, forcing newly elected
Arroyo to call in the troops to stop what she later said was a
coup plot against her.


Four people were killed and more than 100 Estrada supporters
arrested.

