

Recruiting high-calibre people is key to a new technology driven
training plan adopted by China's military as it seeks to cope
with the challenges of the future, state media said Tuesday.


The plan will ensure that the men and women commanding tomorrow's
army are "brighter tacticians, better educated and adept at
commanding the highest-tech weaponry," the China Daily said,
citing the defence ministry.


"The military will establish a new personnel system, which
combines basic and continuing education, academic and military
education, and domestic and overseas training," said Shi Baohua,
the military's deputy chief of personnel.


Shi was making the remarks in a briefing on the People's
Liberation Army attended by military attaches from more than 40
countries, according to the paper.


He introduced a project which will run until 2020 and aims to
produce "officers capable of building informationalised armed
forces (and) staff officers proficient in planning military
operations."


It also foresees "scientists capable of exploring key
technologies in weaponry and equipment, technical specialists
with thorough knowledge of hi-tech weaponry performance, and NCOs
with expertise in using weapons and equipment at hand."


Until very recently, the Chinese army was dismissed as hampered
by low education and reliance on tactics and technology that had
changed little over decades, but this is now changing.


The People's Liberation Army now has more than 10,000 personnel
with doctorates or master's degrees, and it has adopted a system
ensuring officers are adequately educated before being promoted,
the paper said.


At the same time as China seeks to improve the educational
standards of its rank and file, it is also spending much more on
its military than before.


Its military spending is expected to rise 17.8 percent in 2007 to
350.9 billion yuan (about 45 billion dollars), according to a
budget released in March.

