

A Buddhist man was shot dead and six others injured Tuesday in
Thailand's Muslim-majority south, as the head of an inter
governmental group visited the country, police said.


The 35-year-old rubber tapper was gunned down by militants as he
pulled into a service station in Yala, one of three insurgency-
plagued provinces bordering Malaysia.


Four other people, including the victim's two children, were
injured in the attack, police added.


In neighbouring Pattani province, a roadside bomb injured two
police officers, leaving one in serious condition, officers said.


The attacks were carried out as the head of the Organisation of
the Islamic Conference (OIC) visited Bangkok to discuss the
three-year insurgency in the south.


Its secretary general Ekmeleddin Ihsanoglu met with Thai Foreign
Minister Nitya Pibulsonggram on Monday, and was set to meet with
army-installed Prime Minister Surayud Chulanont and junta leader
Sonthi Boonyaratglin on Tuesday.


Sonthi is the first Muslim to head the army in the overwhelmingly
Buddhist country.


Ihsanoglu also planned to meet with Muslim community leaders
before leaving Thailand late Tuesday, foreign ministry spokesman
Piriya Khempon said.


"The OIC praised Thailand's peaceful approach to resolving the
violence in the restive southern region. The organisation has
monitored the situation closely and is ready to provide
supports," Piriya told AFP.


More than 2,100 people have been killed in three years of unrest
in the southern provinces of Yala, Narathiwat and Pattani.


Four were killed on Monday alone, including a man and his son who
were shot and then set ablaze. Militants decapitated the father,
leaving his head about two kilometres (one mile) away.


The military-backed government, which came to power after a
September coup, has made peace-building efforts in a bid to rein
in the insurgency, but violence has escalated over the past six
months.

