

Forty-nine countries have confirmed they will attend a conference
on Iraq in Egypt on May 3-4, the official MENA agency said
Tuesday.


The Iraqi delegation will be headed by Prime Minister Nuri al-
Maliki, while most other countries will be represented by their
foreign ministers, MENA said.


The meetings in the Red Sea resort of Sharm el-Sheikh -- one on
security and the other among Iraqi donors aiming to slash
Baghdad's foreign debt and boost reconstruction efforts -- will
involve all Iraq's neighbors.


Also included are the five permanent UN Security Council members
plus representatives from the United Nations, the European Union,
Canada, Germany and Japan.


Thursday's meeting will be within the framework of the
International Compact with Iraq (ICI), launched in Baghdad in
July with UN and World Bank support.


The compact, which has strong support from Washington, has goals
that include Iraq's equal treatment of all its ethnic groups, an
equitable partition of the country's oil export revenues and
support for the government to fight corruption and practice good
governance.


The ICI is to be adopted on Thursday, after three sessions,
including two that are closed, according to state-owned daily Al-
Akhbar.


On Friday, a meeting on Iraq's security will bring together
Iraq's six neighbours -- Iran, Jordan, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia,
Syria and Turkey -- as well as Egypt, Bahrain, the Arab League,
the Organisation of Islamic Conference and the United Nations.


The conferences could also see a meeting between US Secretary of
State Condoleezza Rice and her Irananian counterpart, Manouchehr
Mottaki. That would be the highest level discussions between the
two nations since Washington broke off relations with Tehran in
1980.


Syria could also be at the centre of attention, with Washington
not excluding a meeting between Rice and Syrian Foreign Minister
Wallid Muallem.

