

Hundreds of Iranians turned out on Tuesday for a demonstration in
Tehran to mark labour day, accusing the government of inaction in
improving their working conditions, the labour news agency Ilna
reported.


The workers converged on a stadium in central Tehran in the
officially sanctioned demonstration to mark May Day but were
dispersed by anti-riot police when the march moved out into the
street, witnesses said.


"Some 600 workers demonstrated at the exit to the stadium and
shouted slogans against the minister of labour," Mohammad
Jahromi, the semi-official agency said.


"Incapable minister. Resign!", "Government, parliament, stop your
slogans and act," and "Death to the oppressors", the protestors
shouted, according to the agency.


Scuffles followed when anti-riot police dispersed the
demonstration as people moved into the street outside the
stadium, just south of Haft-e Tir Square, a major Tehran traffic
nexus.


Witnesses told AFP that they hoisted a coffin symbolising their
demands which the police then tried to break but the
demonstration dispersed without any major clashes.


The demonstration came after hundreds of teachers held three
protests outside Iran's parliament in April, resulting in the
arrest of a dozen education union leaders from Tehran and the
central city of Hamedan.


Low-earning workers and civil servants in Iran have been
especially hard hit by a sharp rise in prices of staple food and
services over the past months. Iran's teachers are due to mark
their national day on Wednesday.

