

A visibly irate prime minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi has ordered
immediate checks on government buildings following reports of
burst pipes and collapsed ceilings, news reports said Tuesday.


"Maintenance is very important. I have said this many times but
these people, as long as nothing happens, they don't care,"
Abdullah was quoted as saying by the New Straits Times daily.


Pictured in the newspaper he was clearly angry that new and
expensive government buildings were already showing signs of
decay.


On Saturday, a ceiling had caved in due to a leaky sprinkler
system at the Entrepreneur and Co-operative Development ministry
in Putrajaya, south of the capital.


Two days later, parts of a ceiling collapsed at the brand new
court complex in Kuala Lumpur after it failed to withstand the
weight of heavy light fixtures, the newspaper said.


In another incident, the immigration department was forced to
suspend services to thousands of people and relocate foreign
detainees after a burst water pipe inundated its building in
Putrajaya last month.


"I feel ashamed. These are new buildings and there are problems.
There must be something wrong," Abdullah said, while ordering for
a thorough inspection of all government buildings to look for
possible defects.


"We don't know if this is because the contractor did not do the
work properly ... or the buildings were poorly designed," he
said.


Construction began in 1996 on Putrajaya, under the administration
of former premier Mahathir Mohamad.


Built at an estimated 22 billion ringgit (6.37 billion dollars),
the project sparked criticism for excessive spending at the
height of the Asian financial crisis in the late 1990s.

