

Australian share prices closed down 0.33 percent Tuesday, led by
resource stocks after base metal prices dropped in London
trading, dealers said.


The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 ended down 20.2 points at 6,145.8,
while the broader All Ordinaries index shed 18.1 points to settle
at 6,140.2.


A total of 1.75 billion shares worth 5.7 billion dollars (4.7
billion US) were traded, with falls outnumbering rises 816 to 445
while 353 stocks were unchanged.


Reynolds & Co private client advisor Michael Heffernan said
while the key market indices were relatively stable, trading in
key stocks was quite volatile.


"Basically the indices are going nowhere but if you look beyond
that there has been quite a bit of volatility in some of the key
stocks and trading volumes have been very strong," Heffernan
said.


Tuesday's session lacked direction due to a soft lead from the US
overnight while May Day holidays meant Asian markets excluding
Japan and Indonesia were closed, he said.


Leading miners BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto fell on profit-taking
amid lower metal prices. BHP Billiton shares lost 0.36 or 1.22
percent to finish at 29.15 dollars while Rio Tinto dropped 1.72
or 2.08 percent to 81.15.


The world's second-largest maker of gaming machines, Aristocrat
Leisure, dropped after it forecast a 15-20 percent year-on-year
increase in net profit for the six months to June to 120-125
million dollars, which was below market expectations.


Aristocrat retreated 0.90 or 5.42 percent to close at 15.70.


Australia's fifth largest bank, St George, gained after
announcing its first half to March net cash profit rose 14.7
percent to a record 568 million dollars. St George shares ended
up 0.64 or 1.78 percent at 36.65.


Elsewhere in the banking sector, Westpac, which reports its
first-half earnings on Thursday, rose 0.15 to close at 27.20,
Commonwealth Bank was steady at 52.76 but National Australia Bank
slipped 0.05 to 42.95 and ANZ lost 0.20 to 30.40. Macquarie Bank
gained 0.25 to 87.25.


Oil and gas producer Santos jumped after the South Australian
state government said it is reviewing its 15 percent cap for a
single shareholder in the company, which has been in place since
1979.


Santos shares advanced 0.38  or 3.38 percent to settle at 11.62.


Healthcare and diagnostic services group Symbion Health traded
higher following a 2.78 billion dollar proposal from a consortium
comprising private equity firms and hospital operator
Healthscope.


The proposed offer was pitched at 4.30 dollars a share. Symbion
Health jumped 0.18 or 4.38 percent to finish at 4.29 and
Healthscope gained 0.13 to 5.83.

