

Chelsea captain John Terry has revealed he has held discussions
with the club about becoming the team's manager at the end of a
new, nine-year deal.


The England captain said last month he was no further forward in
his bid to extend his current contract at Stamford Bridge - but
he remains adamant he wants to stay at the club for the rest of
his career.


The 26-year-old confirmed that talks had broken down but insisted
the situation was not irretrievable.


However, Terry has now revealed further details telling BBC's
Inside Sport programme he has ambitions to become a manager,
ideally with Chelsea.


"I'd certainly like to manage one day. When we were speaking
about my contract with Chelsea we were talking about a nine-year
contract maybe with an option to manage at the end of it," he
said.


"That is certainly the way I want to go, I want to get my badges
and then make that decision at the end of it."


Terry admitted he would like to see David Beckham - who he
succeeded as England skipper - back in the national squad.


"Of course. He's a great player. That is Steve McClaren's
decision to pick and drop players but he is still a world-class
player."


Terry admitted England have been disappointing as they fail to
impress in their bid to qualify for Euro 2008.


However, the London-born defender cannot pinpoint the reason
behind England's poor performances.


"The group of players have come out publicly and said we have
under-achieved recently, we are not playing to the potential we
can and that is the most frustrating thing for Steve McClaren.


"We do that week in week out for our clubs but we get to that
level and the lads are just not doing it and we take that
responsibility ourselves and we need to improve - simple as that.

