

Police fired in the air and fought pitched battles Tuesday with
demonstrators around a central Istanbul square during tense May
Day rallies, reports said.


Police fired warning shots when they came under attack from a
stone-throwing crowd trying to force its way into Taksim Square
which had been declared off- limits to a left-wing May Day rally,
the Anatolia news agency reported.


The agency said the incident occurred in front of the Army
Officers' Club in the upmarket Harbiye district, between the
Hilton and Divan hotels, just north of Taksim.


On the other side of the square, in the popular Okmeydani
neighbourhood, some 1,500 riot police fought a pitched battle for
more than one hour with a similar number of protesters armed with
sticks, stones and slingshots.


Police sprayed the demonstrators, believed to be members of ultra
leftist groups, with water cannon and tear gas.


The gas grenades started small fires on barricades set up by the
youths who later fled as police began sweeping the maze of narrow
streets in the smoking, debris-strewn neighborhood, an AFP
reporter at the scene said.


The only reported injury was to a press photographer, slightly
hurt by a projectile.


Fighting later spread to Istiklal Avenue, Istanbul's busy main
shopping street, as police fired tear gas to repel a crowd making
its way to Taksim. Wearing full riot gear and backed by an
armored personnel carrier, they then moved into the pedestrian
area, witnesses said.


Skirmishes were continuing in the area surrounding Taksim, which
the authorities declared off-limits to the May Day rally.


Left-wing labour unions insisted on demonstrating there, however,
to mark the 30th anniversary of a 1977 May Day meeting in which
34 people died, most of them trampled to death in the panic
caused when gunmen opening fire on the crowd.

