

North Korea Tuesday denied holding any South Koreans against
their will, even though Seoul says hundreds of its citizens have
been abducted to the communist state in the past half-century.


The renewed denial follows Red Cross talks last month between the
two sides, which made no progress in addressing the issue of what
Seoul calls prisoners of war (POWs) and abductees.


"No POWs or abductees exist in North Korea," Choe Song-Il, the
North's deputy Red Cross chief, said in an interview with Choson
Sinbo, a newspaper for pro- Pyongyang ethnic Koreans in Japan.


"If South Korea broaches the issue again, we will have something
to say about 83,000 North Korean POWs held in the South in the
name of anti-communism at the time of signing a truce (after the
1950-53 Korean War)."


After the war North Korean POWs were free to choose whether to go
home or stay in the South.


Seoul officials say 485 South Koreans have been abducted since
the end of the war, and that 548 South Korean POWs were never
sent home.


At the latest Red Cross talks on arranging temporary reunions for
separated families, the South pushed for a separate reunion
programme for the abductees and POWs. The North rejected the
offer but agreed to expand regular family reunions.


Despite its denial of holding any South Koreans against their
will, some have escaped and come South. Choi Uk-Il, 67, who
returned in January, was  among 33 South Koreans abducted while
fishing near the sea border in 1975.


The family reunions, greatly expanded since a 2000 inter-Korean
peace summit, are a pressing issue because many relatives are
desperate to see loved ones before they die.


More than 14,000 Koreans have been allowed face-to-face reunions
since the summit. About 2,700 others have been reunited via video
link since August 2005.


Even so, more than 90,000 people from the South alone have not
seen loved ones since the war ended. There are no mail or
telephone services across the heavily fortified border.

