

The dollar recovered slightly against the euro on Tuesday ahead
of fresh US economic data, but the Turkish lira remained under
pressure amid ongoing political uncertainty in Turkey, traders
said.


The euro fell to 1.3639 dollars in early European trade, from
1.3649 dollars in New York late on Monday. The dollar rose to
119.64 yen, compared with 119.41 on Monday.


Meanwhile the Turkish lira extended losses amid a political
crisis over presidential elections that has set the Islamist-
rooted government against the army.


The lira traded at about 1.377 against the dollar, losing about
0.7 percent of its value since Monday.


Later on Tuesday, all eyes were expected to be on US industrial
activity data. The Institute of Supply Management (ISM) index
comes ahead of key US jobs data on Friday.


"While economic activity does not yet suggest the need for a US
rate cut, data continues to underline our view that the big
picture remains the same, with the risk that ISM and finally
labour market data will start to soften, opening the way for
monetary easing," said Gavin Friend, currency strategist at
Commerzbank.


The euro had hovered near its record high against the dollar on
Monday after a US government report revealed a benign inflation
reading, raising the odds of a rate cut, analysts said.


US consumers limited spending growth in March amid a lingering
housing market slump and high gasoline prices, even as their
personal incomes remained robust, the report showed.


The Commerce Department said consumer spending rose just 0.3
percent in March, disappointing Wall Street analysts who had
expected spending to rise at least 0.5 percent.


The central bank meets next meets on May 9 to debate US interest
rates which have been anchored at 5.25 percent since last June.


Last Friday, the euro soared to an all-time high of 1.3682
dollars following news that the US economy had expanded at its
slowest pace in four years during the first quarter.


The euro changed hands at 1.3639 dollars, against 1.3649 dollars
late Monday, 163.19 yen (163.10), 0.6817 pounds (0.6826) and
1.6483 Swiss francs (1.6474).


The dollar stood at 119.64 yen (119.41) and 1.2087 Swiss francs
(1.2067).


The pound was being traded at 2.0013 dollars (1.9994).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold firmed to 677.85
dollars per ounce, from 677 dollars late on Monday.

