

Hundreds of riot police armed with assault rifles, clubs and
electric prods deployed throughout the Cambodian capital on
Tuesday amid concerns for mass demonstrations by labourers to
mark May Day.


"We deployed the forces to prevent any illegal demonstrations
that could cause disorder in society," said Phnom Penh police
chief Touch Naruth.


Security forces massed around government buildings and along main
roads, snarling traffic in front of the country's parliament
building.


"Because of the holiday ... terrorists or other offenders might
cause trouble so we have to be on alert," interior ministry
spokesman Khieu Sopheak told AFP.


During the morning, the only demonstration seen was a group of
fewer than 100 labour representatives who submitted a petition to
parliament asking for salary increases for garment workers.


The petition also urged the government to adopt more worker-
friendly legislation and to curb violence against labour union
leaders.


Three top unionists have been gunned down since 2004 and
countless others assaulted in an escalation of violence against
workers' rights advocates.


The spate of attacks has alarmed international garment
manufacturers doing business in Cambodia's key garment sector.


Major clothing labels Eddie Bauer, Gap, H Hennes and Mauritz, Liz
Claiborne and Phillips-Van Heusen said in a recent letter to
Prime Minister Hun Sen that they were "quite concerned" about the
growing violence.


Swift justice, they said, was key to their continued presence in
Cambodia, which relies on the garment sector for some 80 percent
of its foreign exchange.


Cambodia's garment exports jumped 17 percent to 2.5 billion
dollars in 2006, but manufacturers warn that continuing labour
disputes could scare investors away.


Manufacturers have warned of an industry collapse at the end of
2007, when safeguards against China are lifted, depriving
Cambodia of exclusive access to foreign markets.

