

US-led coalition warplanes killed four militants who had attacked
a government building in eastern Afghanistan, the coalition said
Tuesday.


Separately, Afghan security forces supported by the NATO-led
International Security Assistance Force detained 11 suspected
militants, some of them linked to Al-Qaeda, a governor said.


The casualties occurred after nearly a dozen militants attacked
the administration office of eastern Khost province's Spera
district late Monday with rockets and gunfire, it said.


"In response to a request from the (police), coalition forces
responded with close air support, killing four insurgents," the
statement said, adding seven more rebels were wounded.


Two Afghan policemen defending the facilities in the remote town
near the Pakistani border were also wounded, it said, adding the
gunfight lasted more than two hours.


Attacks on remote government buildings and police checkposts are
routine in Afghanistan, where the remnants of the Taliban have
waged an insurgency since their 2001 ouster.


The Taliban were toppled by a US-led invasion for failing to hand
over Al- Qaeda's chief, Osama bin Laden.


The 11 suspected Taliban militants with links to Osama bin
Laden's Al-Qaeda network were seized in a "joint operation" by
Afghan and ISAF troops in the Khost's Yaquobi district,
provincial governor Arsala Jamal told AFP.


The governor rejected claims by the relatives of one detained
militant who said the man, Haji Nazir, was a businessman not a
Taliban.


"We've accurate intelligence that these men are involved in
destructive activities," he said.


Nazir's brother-in-law told AFP that his relative was running a
petrol pump and denied he was linked to Taliban.


More than 1,000 people, many of them militants, have died in the
violence this year.


About 50,000 foreign troops are in Afghanistan to help the
government gain control of areas overrun by Taliban militants,
drug barons and private armies.

