

LeBron James and Zydrunas Ilgauskas dominated down the stretch,
as Cleveland pulled away for a 97-90 win to complete a four-game
sweep of Washington on Monday.


The absences of all-stars Gilbert Arenas and Caron Butler were
just too much for the Wizards to overcome in the first round
National Basketball Association playoff series.


They faced long enough odds as it was, as no team in NBA history
had rallied from a 3-0 deficit to win a best-of-seven series.


James and Ilgauskas teamed up to make sure Washington did not
have a chance to make history, teamming up to help Cleveland
complete its first sweep of a playoff series in their 36-year
history.


The second-seeded Cavaliers trailed 67-66 entering the fourth
quarter.


James hit a three-pointer with 5:59 to play to tie the game at
77-77.


Antawn Jamison was fouled by Drew Gooden while attempting a
three-pointer and made all three free throws to give the Wizards
their last lead, 80-77, with 5:37 remaining.


Ilgauskas then scored four points in an 8-2 run that gave
Cleveland the lead for good, 85-80, with 3:23 to play.


James and Ilgauskas combined on a pair of baskets in the final
minute to put away the game.


James started a drive from the right corner and pulled up to dump
the ball to Ilgauskas, who caught it high and scored in one
motion to make it 91-88 with 59 seconds left.


After a turnover by Jamison, Ilgauskas popped out to the left
corner after setting a screen for James, who whipped a pass to
the 7-3 centre for a deep jumper that made it 93-88 with 33
seconds remaining.


With the win, the Cavs have secured a spot in the Eastern
Conference semifinals where they will face the winner of the
series between the New Jersey Nets and Toronto Raptors.


James scored 31 points and had 11 rebounds while Ilgauskas added
20 and 19.


Jamison scored 31 points for Washington.

