

South Korean police Tuesday raided the home of a tycoon suspected
of involvement in a revenge attack after his son was hurt in a
bar brawl.


Officials at Namdaemun police station confirmed investigators
searched Hanwha Group chairman Kim Seung-Young's luxury home in
central Seoul in search of evidence but refused to elaborate.


Kim, 55, was questioned about the attack for 11 hours overnight
until Monday morning but denied he had been personally involved,
police said.


His 22-year-old son Dong-Won, who was questioned after returning
from a trip to China late Monday, also denied having used any
violence.


But police said Monday they would seek an arrest warrant for Kim
and others after carrying out further investigations.


The case has sparked a media outcry because of perceptions that
bosses of the country's mighty conglomerates, or chaebol, are
often above the law. Hanwha is the country's 10th largest group.


The presidential Blue House, in an unusual intervention, has told
police to mount a thorough investigation.


The incident began on March 8 when Kim's son, a Yale University
student, received 10 stitches to his face after falling
downstairs in a brawl with Seoul bar workers.


His father and bodyguards allegedly stormed another bar that
evening in a revenge attack on people, mostly bar employees,
involved in the incident.


Local newspapers say the bodyguards and the elder Kim failed to
find the person who directly assaulted Kim's son. They then
allegedly abducted and beat up four other bar workers at a
construction site.


According to a police report, the four victims say they were
abducted and beaten up by the elder Kim himself. They say he hit
them on the back with a steel pipe and kicked them in the face
and body scores of times.


Kim has apologised for the incident but maintained he did not
personally use violence.

