

Tens of thousands of workers were assembling across Indonesia to
mark May Day on Tuesday to demand better wages and job
protection, amid tight police security.


In the capital Jakarta, workers waving trade union banners and
posters denouncing foreign investment converged on a central
roundabout, watched closely by several thousand armed police.


"As labourers we have to commemorate labour day because the
government does not care for our welfare," said chemical factory
worker Parsidi.


"I have worked for 20 years and still receive 880,000 (96 US
dollars) rupiah a month. I have two children and it's not enough
to pay my rent," she said.


"The minimum wage is not enough for daily living," agreed garment
factory Saufrul Khoirina, with her husband and five-year-old son
alongside her.


Both workers were among thousands trucked into the capital under
heavy police escort from the nearby industrial city of Tangerang.


The rally was one of several planned in the capital, including
outside the parliament and in front of the presidential palace.


About 30,000 police have been deployed across Jakarta, a police
spokesman has told AFP, although they were not expecting
violence.


Protesters accused the government of President Susilo Bambang
Yudhoyono and Vice President Jusuf Kalla of allowing foreign
companies to strip the country of resources and exploit local
workers.


"SBY's and Kalla's politics are cheap pay. The government is not
pro-people or pro-labour. We have oil, gold mines but they are
owned by foreigners," said an activist addressing the crowd at
the roundabout.


Mass rallies were also starting elsewhere across the archipelago.
Most protesters were calling for the scrapping of a controversial
2003 law that they say reverses workers' rights.


They say the law makes it easier for employers to place workers
on short term contracts with no benefits.

