

Real Madrid, without a trophy since their last championship
success in 2003, believe they can finally end their drought and
take this season's Liga crown if they can see off rivals Sevilla
on Sunday.


A win at a packed Santiago Bernabeu stadium could propel Real to
the top of the table if leaders Barcelona, stuttering on their
travels recently, fail to win at basement side Real Sociedad.


Barca are two points clear of Real and one clear of Sevilla going
in to the final six games of the season, and the Madrid giants
are on a roll after thrashing Athletic Bilbao away at the weekend
to stay right in the hunt.


"Everything's perfect. We are playing better than Barca and
Sevilla and we are capable of winning the title," Real's
Brazilian midfielder Emerson told Tuesday's Marca magazine.


"We are really up for it. The team is convinced we can win the
league," added club chairman Ramon Calderon.


Forecasting that Barca might slip up at Real Sociedad, Marca's
headline blared in reference to Real that "they already see
themselves as leaders" - assuming Sevilla can be sent packing.


According to Brazilian Cicinho, "the key to the turnaround has
been unity" in the squad, a commodity lacking earlier in the
season as the team struggled under controversial Italian coach
Fabio Capello, who soon shipped out Brazilian striker Ronaldo to
AC Milan.


The return to form of English veteran David Beckham has also been
a boon.


AS and Marca newspapers contrasted Real's optimism with what it
termed the growing pessimism at Barcelona as they quoted skipper
Carles Puyol as calling on the squad to be more "decisive" as
they try to defend the title they have won for the past two
seasons.

