

The dollar remained under pressure close to its record low
against the euro in Asian trade Tuesday after soft US inflation
data fanned talk of a possible US Federal Reserve interest rate
cut, dealers said.


Trading was quiet as most Asian financial markets outside Japan
were closed Tuesday for the Labour Day holiday, they added.


The dollar firmed to 119.59 yen in Tokyo afternoon trade from
119.41 in New York late Monday.


The euro rose to 1.3653 dollars after 1.3649, pausing just below
Friday's all- time best of 1.3682. The euro also strengthened to
163.26 yen from 163.10.


"The dollar remains on a backfoot against major currencies
because weak inflation data supported the view that the Fed will
cut rates at least once this year," said Yoshifumi Suzuki, forex
dealer at Hachijuni Bank.


At the same time economic growth in the eurozone is robust,
making the dollar less attractive to buy, he added.


Even so, many market players expect the Fed to hold rates steady
at 5.25 percent at a meeting next week, a level where they have
been since last June.


The Fed's preferred inflation measure, the US core PCE deflator,
eased to a rate of 2.1 percent in March from 2.4 percent over the
year to February.


US consumer spending rose just 0.3 percent in March,
disappointing Wall Street analysts who had expected a rise of at
least 0.5 percent.


The euro meanwhile hovered close to its record high against the
dollar, underpinned by expectations that the European Central
Bank will notch up its key lending rate again soon, dealers said.


The single European currency could well top 1.37 dollars in the
coming days if US data, including Friday's jobs numbers, come in
weaker than expected, Suzuki said.


Other data due out this week include the Institute of Supply
Management indices on industrial and non-manufacturing activity,
as well as March pending home sales.


The dollar fell to 47.370 Philippine pesos from 47.533 in late
Asian trade on Monday, to 32.750 Thai baht from 32.980, to 9,078
Indonesian rupiah from 9,083 and to 930.50 South Korean won from
930.95.


But the greenback edged up to 1.5208 Singapore dollars from
1.5198 and to 33.311 Taiwan dollars from 33.309.

