

Suspected militants kidnapped six foreign oil workers, including
four Italians, in an attack Tuesday on a floating storage vessel
off the coast of Nigeria's southern Bayelsa State.


The Italian Foreign Affairs Ministry said four Italians were
among those captured, while US sources confirmed that an American
national was also abducted.


Diplomatic sources in Lagos said the sixth person might be a
Croatian.


Chevron Nigeria Limited said the storage vessel was attacked at
5:00am (0400 GMT) by militants claiming to be members of the
Movement for Emancipation of the Niger Delta (MEND).


"The attackers forced their way on to the facility and kidnapped
six expatriate employees. In the attack, government security
forces suffered casualties," it added.


Sources close to the Nigerian navy confirmed one naval personnel
dead and three wounded.


In a separate incident on Monday evening in neighbouring Rivers
state, the mother of the governor-elect Celestine Omehia was
kidnapped by an unknown militant group, a Rivers government
spokesman said Tuesday.


"The mother of the new governor was abducted last night in her
Ubima village, near Port Harcourt," Emmanuel Okah told AFP.


The Niger Oil Delta, a swathe of creeks and swamps and the size
of Scotland, is home to Nigeria's multi-billion dollar oil and
gas industry.


The region has seen a resurgence in violent attacks on oil firms
and personnel over the past two years.


More than 100 foreign workers have been kidnapped, but were later
released, while scores of Nigerian security personnel have been
killed by militant groups or armed gangsters.


The groups claim to be fighting for a larger share of the
country's oil wealth for the local residents, but some also
demand ransoms from oil firms before hostages are released.


Nigeria is the world's sixth biggest exporter, accounting for a
daily output of some 2.6 milllion barrels.

