

Former Thailand prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra has emerged as
the frontrunner in an anticipated takeover bid after being given
access to Manchester City's accounts on Monday.


City have recently been targeted by former player Ray Ranson,
however the club were not happy with some of the terms of
Ranson's initial proposal before he submitted an updated version.


Thaksin, who failed to buy Liverpool three years ago, has been
linked with a 100 million pounds (200 million dollars) bid for
City.


His advisers will now carry out due diligence, which allows a
potential buyer to examine the accounts of the organisation in
question and decide whether it is a worthwhile investment for
them to make.


Shinawatra is currently living in London after being ousted from
office in a military coup last year.


He was first linked with the Premiership three years ago when he
made a 65 million pounds (130 million dollars) bid to buy
Liverpool but the club rejected his proposals.


Liverpool were also condemned at the time, by groups such as
Amnesty International, for entering into negotiations with
Shinawatra due to his human rights record as prime minister.


Shinawatra, a billionaire tycoon who made his fortune in
telecommunications, went on to win a second term in 2005 but has
been in exile since the coup last year.


Shinawatra has made greater headway than Ranson in attempts to
buy the club, with the former City defender as yet receiving no
response to his revised offer last week.


Speculation over Ranson's bid has also seen the club linked with
a move to bring in Sam Allardyce, who resigned at Bolton this
week, as manager.


Current boss Stuart Pearce's position is under threat after a
disappointing season on the field.

