

Yao Ming scored six of Houston's final eight points and the
Rockets regained control of their Western Conference first-round
series against the Utah Jazz with a 96-92 win in game five.


The Rockets had be happy to be back in Houston on Monday after
suffering a pair of double-digit road losses after taking a
commanding 2-0 lead.


Utah tied the series with a pair of dominant home wins, including
holding Houston to a franchise-playoff low 67 points in game
three on Thursday.


The Jazz had a chance to steal on Monday but China's giant center
Yao came up big when it mattered most.


Nursing a 91-90 lead, Houston turned to Yao, who responded with a
turnaround jumper off the glass to extend the lead to 93-90 with
1:25 to play.


Yao sealed the win with two free throws with 11 seconds left.


He finished with 21 points and 15 rebounds and was nine-of-10
from the line.


Tracy McGrady had 26 points and a career-high 16 assists despite
leaving the game in the first quarter with a hip pointer.


McGrady left the bench with 1:14 to go in the first quarter and
went to the locker room with a trainer. He returned to score 20
points in the final three quarters.


Yao was key down the stretch for the Rockets, but Chuck Hayes had
a huge impact on the game considering he did not score a point in
26 minutes.


Utah trailed, 94-92, and had the ball. Derek Fisher started a
drive from the left side and was met in the lane by Hayes, who
drew the charge with 12 seconds left.


Rafer Alston then split a pair of free throws and Yao made two to
end it.


All-star forward Carlos Boozer scored 26 points and had eight
rebounds for the Jazz. It was the first time all series that
Boozer did not record a double- double.


Game six of the National Basketball Association series will be in
Utah on Thursday, when Houston will look for its first playoff
series win since 1997.

