

London's FTSE 100 index of leading shares drifted lower in
subdued trade on Tuesday, as other European markets shut for the
May Day public holiday.


In late morning deals, the British capital's FTSE showed a drop
of 0.48 percent at 6,418.50 points.


The euro stood at 1.3643 dollars.


European stock markets were closed for the day in Amsterdam,
Frankfurt, Lisbon, Madrid, Milan, Paris and Zurich. In Asia,
financial markets in China and Hong Kong were also shut.


US stocks had fallen Monday as investors paused following a
record-setting series of sessions and locked in gains on the
final day of April -- the best month for Wall Street in more than
three years.


Japanese share prices closed lower on Tuesday, hit by overnight
losses on Wall Street and a dearth of buyers in a holiday week,
dealers said.


In London, Punch Taverns saw its share price dive 4.29 percent to
1,248 pence on profit-taking following in-line interim results
from the British pubs operator.


Shares in Imperial Tobacco fell 0.87 percent to 2,158 pence after
the group said that interim net profits climbed by more than 6.0
percent to 421 million pounds.


Imperial added that the group needed more information from
Franco-Spanish cigarette maker Altadis before raising its current
takeover bid of 12 billion euros (16.4 billion dollars).


Northern Rock shares dived 1.86 percent to 1,057 pence as broker
Citigroup reiterated its 'sell' stance on the bank's stock and
cut its price target to 1,000 pence following a recent trading
update.


In Wall Street trade on Monday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average
lost 0.44 percent to close at 13,062.91 points, after the blue-
chip index set three consecutive record highs last week and
notched up a new intraday high Monday of 13,162.02.


The Nasdaq composite tumbled 1.26 percent to 2,525.09 points and
the broad- market Standard  Poor's 500 index retreated 0.78
percent to 1,482.37.


Despite Monday's pullback, the Dow index was up 708 points or 5.7
percent for April, the best monthly gain since December 2003. The
Nasdaq and SP index both rose 4.3 percent on the month.


In Asia on Tuesday, Tokyo's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
finished down 0.72 percent at 17,274.98 points.


Dealers there said that activity was muted with many bourses
elsewhere in the region closed for the Labour Day holiday while
Japan's markets are only open for two days this week.


In French and German deals on Monday, takeover talk had driven
share prices higher.


The Paris CAC 40 shares index had finished 0.49 percent higher at
5,960.04 points, while in Frankfurt the Dax had gained 0.42
percent to close at 7,408.87.

