

A delegation of Russian lawmakers visiting Estonia toured a
warehouse zone in the port area of Tallinn to hunt for evidence
that Estonian authorities tortured people detained after riots
last week.


"Here, in this place, many NGOs and journalists have told us that
many people were subjected to terrible torture after the events
of April 27 and 28," Leonid Slutsky, deputy head of the Duma
Foreign Affairs Committee, told AFP.


"It's not difficult to imagine because 1,200 people were detained
and packed in here, in building 19-6. This is unacceptable in a
member country of the Council of Europe," he said.


Asked if Russia intended to file a formal complaint against
Estonia for torture, Slutsky replied: "Of course not, that would
be impossible."


The Russian delegation inspected the toilets in the warehouse
facility and peered through windows in the modern building, where
they believe detainees were abused.


As they left the facility, a caretaker told them that many
people, including many youngsters, were held overnight in the
facility following riots that raged through Tallinn on Thursday
night last week.


But he added: "Nothing bad happened here."


Rioting erupted here after the authorities roped off the statue
of the Bronze Soldier and erected a white tent over it, as they
prepared to remove it from its central position in Tallinn.


Estonians see the statue as a painful reminder of 50 years of
Soviet occupation. Russians, including several hundred thousand
who live in Estonia, view it as a memorial to the millions of Red
Army soldiers who died defeating Nazism in World War II.


In the early hours of Friday, the Bronze Soldier was removed from
the place it had occupied in downtown Tallinn for 60 years.


It was re-installed Monday in a military cemetery in the Estonian
capital.

