

Israeli cabinet minister Eitan Cabel intends to tender his
resignation on Tuesday after a government commission lambasted
the government over last year's war in Lebanon, army radio
reported.


Cabel, a minister without portfolio who is secretary general of
the centre-left Labour party, would be the first member of Ehud
Olmert's government to resign over the interim report, which was
published on Monday.


Army radio said that he intends to submit his resignation around
midday (0900 GMT).


When contacted by AFP, a spokeswoman for the minister refused to
confirm or deny that Cabel intended to step down, saying only
that he had called a press conference at the end of the morning
to make "an important announcement".


Army radio speculated that his departure could have a "domino
effect" on other ministers, with opinion polls, commentators and
opposition politicians across the board demanding that Olmert and
Defence Minister Amir Peretz resign.


A Tuesday poll conducted by public radio found that 69 percent of
the Israeli public thinks the prime minister should resign and 74
percent believe Peretz, the chairman of the Labour party, should
step down.


The government commission appointed by Olmert seven months ago
accused him of "serious failure in exercising judgement,
responsibility and prudence" during last year's war against
Hezbollah.


The report was equally withering about Peretz and then chief of
staff Dan Halutz concluding that they failed in fulfilling their
functions.

