

The wife of ousted Thai premier Thaksin Shinawatra has sued the
military's top graft-buster and a newspaper for defamation, her
lawyer said Tuesday.


Pojaman Shinawatra filed the lawsuit over comments that compared
her controversial purchase of government land in Bangkok to
robbery, lawyer Noppadon Pattama told reporters.


Nam Yimyaem, the head of the junta's Assets Scrutinising
Committee, made the comments in the Post Today newspaper on
January 30.


Pojaman also sued the newspaper for carrying the remarks,
Noppadol said.


"She sued him and the newspaper for defamation. We used our legal
rights. Our former prime minister and his wife and his family do
not receive any justice from the committee," Noppadol said.


"We hope to receive justice from the court," he added.


The first hearing in the defamation case is expected in early
July, the lawyer said.


The land deal, in which Pojaman bought a plot of government land
for a bargain at auction, is among the dozen cases that the
junta's anti-corruption team is investigating.


Rooting out alleged corruption was one of the military's main
justifications for the coup.


Nam's committee -- which the military set up after toppling
Thaksin's government in September -- has already filed charges of
tax evasion and perjury against Pojaman, as well as her step-
brother and her personal secretary.


Two of Thaksin's children, meanwhile, have been slapped with a
789-million- dollar tax bill over their family's sale of his
telecom giant Shin Corp last year.


Thaksin's family earned 1.9 billion dollars, all tax-free, from
selling the firm to Singapore's state-linked Temasek Holdings.
The deal sparked mass protests and eventually led to the coup
that ousted him.

