

Officials seized almost 200 schoolbooks in Indonesia that fail to
explicitly blame a bloody 1965 coup on the outlawed Communist
party, an official said Tuesday.


Authorities insist the outlawed Indonesian Communist Party was
behind the botched coup, during which six military generals were
executed, triggering a backlash against Communists that left up
to one million sympathisers dead.


The Attorney General issued a directive last month banning 13
books used in some schools to teach about the coup, a sensitive
issue in Indonesia.


"The books were confiscated from bookstores and we have called on
other book stores and people who have the books to surrender them
to authorities," said Wayan, head of the political section of the
local prosecutor's office.


"According to the directive, the books could mislead students by
providing them with wrong historical facts," he said without
elaborating.


The texts were confiscated Monday from stores selling them to
secondary school students in Kupang city. Thousands of books have
been seized since the directive was issued.


Debate about the coup was banned under former dictator Suharto, a
general at the time, who was largely credited with putting down
the putsch.


He went on to rule Indonesia with an iron fist for more than
three decades before resigning in 1998.


Historians and academics have since suggested that the military
orchestrated the putsch to tighten its grip on power and wipe out
Communism that had been thriving in Indonesia.


Academics have suggested right-wing groups were pressuring the
government over the texts, concerned about fostering Communist
sympathy as well as anti-military sentiment in schools.

