

Japanese share prices closed down 0.72 percent on Tuesday, hit by
overnight losses on Wall Street and a dearth of buyers in a
holiday week, dealers said.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
lost 125.43 points to 17,274.98.


The broader Topix index of all first-section shares declined 7.75
points or 0.46 percent to 1,693.25.


Dealers said activity was muted with many bourses elsewhere in
the region closed for the Labour Day holiday while Japan's
markets are only open for two days this week.


Decliners beat gainers 966 to 634, with 126 issues flat.


Volume dropped to 1.79 billion shares from 2.26 billion on
Friday. Japanese financial markets were closed Monday for a
public holiday.


Volume was thin overall, with players reducing their trading
activities following a three-day weekend and ahead of another
long weekend starting Thursday, dealers said.


"Speculative selling pressured the market, as active buying is
unlikely to emerge in between holidays," said Kazuhiro Takahashi,
an equities official at Daiwa Securities SMBC.


Matsushita Electric Industrial rose 75 yen or 3.23 percent to
2,400 after announcing that it topped its own earnings forecast
last fiscal year and expects a record net profit in the current
year.


NTT DoCoMo advanced 4,000 yen or 1.95 percent to 209,000 after it
forecast a 4.1 percent year-on-year rise in net profit in the
current fiscal year to March 2008, pledging to overcome a likely
drop in revenues by slashing costs.


Mazda jumped 28 yen or 4.64 percent to 632 after the automaker
said profits hit all-time highs in the year ended March and
forecast another set of record earnings this fiscal year.


Mitsubishi Heavy Industries fell 19 yen or 2.56 percent to 723
despite the announcement of earnings growth in the just-ended
fiscal year and further expansion in the ongoing year to March
2008.


On the foreign exchange market, the dollar firmed to 119.59 yen
in Tokyo afternoon trade from 119.41 in New York late Monday.


The euro rose to 1.3653 dollars after 1.3649 and to 163.26 yen
from 163.10.

