

China has a huge potential market for private airplanes but
cumbersome regulations prevent the fledgling industry from taking
off, state media said Tuesday.


With at least 300,000 millionaires in US dollar terms, the skies
over China should in theory be filled with single-engine planes
but the number of private aircraft is only about 70, the China
Daily reported.


"Everybody seems keen to know more about small planes," said Liu
Tiemin, the general manager of a company which deals in small
aircraft and is flooded with telephone calls every day.


"But most give up the idea of buying when they get to know just
how difficult it is to apply for permission to use the airspace,"
he told the newspaper.


Individuals must apply to local air traffic control offices
before flying. The bureau in turn forwards the application to the
military for permission.


"If a flight crosses two regions, you have to apply to two air
traffic control bureaus. It's too much trouble," said Liang
Jinying, general manager of Beijing Yanqi Lake Aviation Club.


If airspace controls were eased, the aerospace industry could
easily sell 2,000 to 3,000 planes a year, the newspaper said,
citing an unnamed engineer with airplane manufacturer China
Aviation Industry Corporation II.


There are some signs that the authorities are considering reform,
including projects in two cities making it easier to apply for
the use of airspace below 600 meters (2,000 feet), the newspaper
reported.


Meanwhile, some maverick pilots are taking matters into their own
hands, taking off without authorisation and using airspace far
away from military installations where they are unlikely to get
caught, it added.

