

India must step up industrialisation to cut dependence on the
farm sector, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said on Tuesday, in a
rebuff to critics who oppose such development.


"There are severe limitations to expanding employment
opportunities in agriculture on a large scale," Singh told a
college campus audience.


"A developing country like ours cannot afford to view
industrialisation as a negative phenomenon," Singh said.


His comments came amid increasingly violent demonstrations for
greater economic and social rights with leftist rebels carrying
out deadly attacks and villagers opposing setting up of
industries in many parts of the country.


Reliable unemployment data is not regularly available, and does
not include millions of under-employed people but economists say
joblessness is a major problem.


Agriculture -- which contributes less than 25 percent to total
GDP -- employs nearly 60 percent of India's 1.1 billion
population. Nearly 30 percent of people are employed in the
services sector.


"We have to find ways and means to accelerate the process of
industrialisation and to ensure this process is sufficiently
labour intensive," Singh said.


Singh also expressed concern over the uneven pace of
industrialisation in the country, where the economy is growing at
more than eight percent.


"I am also puzzled by the persisting regional imbalance in
industrial development and urbanisation in India," he said.


"There are ... areas of concern, like displacement of people,
like environmental damage, like alienation of the working class.
These concerns must be dealt with."


The Asian Development Bank warned last month that unemployment
rates could hit growth rates in Asia by several percentage
points.


The bank estimated at least half a billion people out of a
workforce of 1.7 billion in the region were unemployed or under-
employed.

