

Prime Minister Shinzo Abe on Tuesday made the first visit by a
Japanese leader to military personnel posted in Kuwait in support
of US-led operations in Iraq.


Some 210 members of Japan's Air Self-Defence Force with three
C-130 transport planes are deployed at the Gulf state's Ali Al-
Salem Air Base some 50 kilometers (31 miles) west of Kuwait City.


They transport goods and personnel between the base and Iraqi
cities including Baghdad on behalf of the US-led coalition and
the United Nations, despite Japan's withdrawal of ground troops
from Iraq last year.


"The security situation in Iraq remains severe. Especially, you
must be on alert during flights to Baghdad," Abe said in an
early-morning speech after being briefed about operations here.


"However I am confident that, representing our country, you will
continue to provide a big contribution to the reconstruction of
Iraq.


"I would like you to pursue your duty, keeping in mind that you
are the ones who will make glorious marks on the history of
Japan."


In late March, Abe's cabinet decided to extend the mission by two
years ahead of his first meeting in Washington with US President
George W. Bush on Friday.


A bill approving the move was sent to parliament, where its
passage is virtually assured as Abe's Liberal Democratic Party-
led coalition holds a comfortable majority.


Abe, a conservative, has vowed to extend the Iraq mission as part
of his plans for officially pacifist Japan to take a more
assertive role in global security.


Japan last year ended its landmark deployment of troops in Iraq,
a reconstruction mission which marked the first time since World
War II that Japan had sent troops to a country where fighting was
underway.

