

Asian stocks closed mainly lower on Tuesday with the few
benchmarks trading on the day following a mild correction on Wall
Street where profit taking emerged after a succession of record
finishes.


Most regional markets were closed for public holidays, primarily
May Day, resulting in minimal trade and few leads apart from New
York and falls in base metal prices in London overnight.


Slumping base metal prices resulted in Sydney sliding 0.33
percent, Tokyo was down 0.72 percent, while Wellington and
Jakarta were little changed.


Bangkok, Hong Kong, Kuala Lumpur, Manila, Mumbai, Seoul,
Singapore, Taipei, and Shanghai were all closed for holidays.


TOKYO: Share prices closed down 0.72 percent, hit by overnight
losses on Wall Street and a dearth of buyers in a holiday week.


Dealers said activity was muted with many bourses elsewhere in
the region closed for the Labour Day holiday while Japan's
markets are only open for two days this week.


The Nikkei-225 index lost 125.43 points to 17,274.98. Volume
dropped to 1.79 billion shares from 2.26 billion on Friday.


Volume was thin overall, with players reducing their trading
activities following a three-day weekend and ahead of another
long weekend starting Thursday, dealers said.


"Speculative selling pressured the market, as active buying is
unlikely to emerge in between holidays," said Kazuhiro Takahashi,
an equities official at Daiwa Securities SMBC.


Matsushita Electric Industrial rose 75 yen to 2,400 after
announcing that it topped its own earnings forecast last fiscal
year and expects a record net profit in the current year.


NTT DoCoMo advanced 4,000 yen or 1.95 percent to 209,000 after it
forecast a 4.1 percent year-on-year rise in net profit in the
current fiscal year to March 2008, pledging to overcome a likely
drop in revenues by slashing costs.


HONG KONG: Closed.


SEOUL: Closed.


TAIPEI: Closed.


SHANGHAI: Closed.


SYDNEY: Share prices closed down 0.33 percent, led by resource
stocks after base metal prices dropped in London trading.


The S&P/ASX 200 ended down 20.2 points at 6,145.8. A total of
1.75 billion shares worth 5.7 billion dollars (4.7 billion US)
were traded.


Reynolds & Co private client advisor Michael Heffernan said
while the key market indices were relatively stable, trading in
key stocks was quite volatile.


"Basically the indices are going nowhere but if you look beyond
that there has been quite a bit of volatility in some of the key
stocks and trading volumes have been very strong," Heffernan
said.


Tuesday's session lacked direction due to a soft lead from the US
overnight while May Day holidays meant Asian markets excluding
Japan and Indonesia were closed, he said.


Leading miners BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto fell on profit-taking
amid lower metal prices. BHP Billiton shares lost 0.36 or 1.22
percent to finish at 29.15 dollars while Rio Tinto dropped 1.72
or 2.08 percent to 81.15.


SINGAPORE: Cosed.


KUALA LUMPUR: Closed.


BANGKOK: Closed.


JAKARTA: Share prices closed up 0.10 percent with gains in mining
stocks offsetting falls in some large caps.


Dealers said a mild dip in consumer prices in April failed to
give shares any significant boost, they added.


The composite index closed up 2.011 points at 2,001.178 with 9.54
billion shares valued at 4.15 trillion rupiah (457.05 million
dollars) traded.


MANILA: Closed.


WELLINGTON: Share prices closed barely changed in mixed trading
following falls in overseas markets.


The NZX-50 gross index fell 2.98 points to 4,191.66 on turnover
worth 95.8 million dollars (71.0 million US).


"It's the start of the month, so there doesn't seem to be a lot
of change in the outlook at the moment," Nigel Scott of ABN Amro
Craigs said.


A number of larger stocks were remaining firm and anchoring the
market, Scott said.


Market leader Telecom rose seven cents to 4.90 dollars, after the
government rejected a recommendation from business regulator, the
Commerce Commission, to regulate mobile phone charges.


Instead the government accepted offers from Telecom and rival
Vodafone to lower charges.


MUMBAI: Closed.

