

Japanese share prices fell 0.90 percent in morning trade Tuesday
as losses on Wall Street overnight kept buyers at bay, dealers
said.


They said activity was muted with many bourses elsewhere in the
region closed for the Labour Day holiday while Japan's markets
are only open for two days this week.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
lost 157.11 points to 17,243.30 by the lunch break.


The broader Topix index of all first-section shares declined 8.29
points or 0.49 percent to 1,692.71.


Decliners beat gainers 964 to 630, with 128 stocks flat.


Volume fell to 884 million shares from 1.07 billion on Friday
morning.


Japanese financial markets were closed Monday for a public
holiday.


"Sentiment is bearish (negative), with investors focused more on
signs of a deterioration in supply-demand conditions than on such
positive factors as a weak yen or favorable earnings
announcements," said a trader at a European asset management
firm.


"There are some views in the Tokyo market that Wall Street may
have reacted too positively to US corporate announcements and may
stage a sharp downturn sooner or later," he added.


Matsushita Electric Industrial rose 75 yen or 3.23 percent to
2,400 after announcing that it topped its own earnings forecast
last fiscal year and expects a record net profit in the current
year.


NTT DoCoMo gained 7,000 yen or 3.41 percent to 212,000 after it
forecast a 4.1 percent rise in net profit in the year to March
2008, pledging to overcome a likely drop in revenues by slashing
costs.


Mazda climbed 30 yen or 4.97 percent to 634 after the automaker
said its profits hit all-time highs in the year ended March and
forecast another set of record earnings this fiscal year.

