

Cuban President Fidel Castro issued his fourth news article late
Monday in the nine months he has been recovering from intestinal
surgery, hours before May Day events get under way.


Under the headline "It is time for an energy revolution right
now," Castro, 80, addressed US-Brazilian cooperation on biofuels,
and urged that the issue be discussed on International Workers'
Day.


Among other things Castro called for a wholesale replacement of
incandescent lights with fluorescent bulbs, and massive
replacement of domestic and commercial systems using older
technologies that require two to three times more energy than new
systems.


"Tomorrow May 1 is a good day to have these thoughts go out to
the workers, and all of the world's poor, along with a protest
against something incredible and humiliating that has taken
place: the release of a monster of terrorism," Castro wrote in
the Communist Party newspaper Granma, referring to Luis Posada
Carriles.


The Cuban-born Venezuelan former CIA operative, wanted by Cuba
and Venezuela for the deadly downing of a Cuban jet, was freed on
bond in Texas last month.


Castro did not say whether he might attend May Day events in
Havana. If he did, it could be his first public appearance since
July 26 -- a day before intestinal surgery and just before his
July 31 temporary handover of power to his brother, Raul Castro,
75.

