

Turkey's Constitutional Court is set to rule Tuesday on whether
to cancel a first round of presidential elections which sparked a
political crisis, the semi-official Anatolia news agency
reported.


The head of the court, Tulay Tugcu, told journalists it was
planning to announce its verdict later Tuesday.


Media reports said the court's rapporteur had recommended court
members reject an opposition demand to cancel the vote. The
recommendation is not binding.


Parliament held the first round of voting on Friday, in which
Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul, a former Islamist and the sole
candidate in the elections, narrowly missed becoming the next
head of state.


Within hours of the poll, the army issued a statement saying it
was ready to take action to preserve the country's secular
identity.


The government sharply reminded the army that it takes orders
from the prime minister and Gul said he would not withdraw from
the race.


The main opposition Republican People's Party (CHP) asked the
court to annul the vote on the grounds that there were not enough
lawmakers in the assembly Friday to make it legal.


It argues that according to the constitution, there should have
been at least 367 of the 550 lawmakers present.


According to parliament minutes, 361 lawmakers attended, 352 of
whom belong to the ruling Justice and Development Party (AKP).


If the court rules that Friday's vote was in order, parliament
will hold a second round of voting on Wednesday in which Gul will
likely fail to garner the required 367 votes become the
president.


However he is almost certain to be elected in the third round of
voting on May 9 when an absolute majority of 276 votes will
suffice.

