

Britain's Imperial Tobacco said Tuesday that it needed more
information from Franco-Spanish cigarette maker Altadis before
raising its current takeover bid of 12 billion euros (16.4
billion dollars).


A takeover would bring together the Imperial cigarette brands of
Regal, Embassy and Davidoff with Altadis best-sellers Gauloises
and Fortuna.


"We're pleased that both sides were able to meet recently to have
a discussion about Altadis' shareholders presentation on its new
financial targets," Imperial Tobacco chief executive Gareth Davis
told a press conference after the release of the group's first-
half results.


"Whereas some progress was made we still require further
information to enable us to potentially reassess the value of the
business."


Davis added Imperial hoped that "progress will be made within
weeks and the situation will be clearer this month."


Imperial, which also sells Drum tobacco and owns the Rizla
cigarette paper brand, began its quest to buy Altadis last March
when it offered 45 euros per share or 11.5 billion euros.


Last month, the British cigarette maker rolled out an improved
bid of 47 euros per share, which was worth 12 billion euros.


Both takeover attempts were rejected unanimously by Altadis
management, which concluded that they failed to reflect the
company's value, diverse assets and growth potential.


Announcing results on Tuesday, Imperial revealed that net profits
climbed by more than 6.0 percent to 421 million pounds in the six
months to March 31, 2007, compared with 397 million pounds in the
same period of the previous financial year.


Some analysts have suggested that the Altadis board is looking
for a bid of at least 50 euros per share for the company .


Davis said Tuesday that the new information the group wanted was
non-competitive and centred on asset values and taxation.


However, he denied that the group was frustrated by the refusal
of Altadis to open its books any further.


"It's still relatively early days," Davis told reporters. "As
long as we see the potential to create value we remain patient."


He added that "there are other very attractive opportunities out
there."


Earlier this year, Imperial Tobacco bought US group Commonwealth
Brands, the fourth-biggest player in the United States, for 1.9
billion dollars (1.46 billion euros).

