

The dollar fell against the euro and yen on Friday as the market
geared up for key US jobs data, traders said.


The euro rose to 1.3565 dollars in early European trading, from
1.3549 dollars late on Thursday in New York.


The dollar dipped to 120.33 yen, compared with 120.41 yen on
Thursday.


Market players were looking ahead to Friday's US non-farm
payrolls report, seen as one of the best indicators for further
clues on the health of the US economy.


The market is expecting the report to show 100,000 new jobs
created in April but a weaker figure might lead to a fresh sell-
off in the dollar, dealers said.


US data this week has been generally stronger than expected,
lessening the chances for an early US interest rate cut and so
helping the dollar.


"The dollar has derived support from the better than expected US
economic data that has suggested that the US economy may now be
picking up after growing at a rate of just 1.3 percent in the
first quarter," said Derek Halpenny, senior currency economist at
The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi in London.


The Institute for Supply Management (ISM) reported that the US
service sector expanded at a faster-than-expected rate in April.


Another report showed US labor productivity rose 1.7 percent in
the first quarter.


The euro meanwhile edged higher against the dollar on Friday,
despite a survey showing eurozone services sector activity at its
weakest since October last year.


The eurozone purchasing managers index (PMI) for the service
sector, compiled by the research group NTC Economics, slipped to
57.0 points in April from 57.4 in March.


"Overall, activity is holding up at robust levels in the
eurozone, but is not accelerating any more," HSBC analyst Astrid
Schilo said.


"All is still in line with the widely expected ECB hike to 4.0
percent in June."


The European Central Bank is expected to approve an increase in
its benchmark interest rate in June to 4.0 percent from 3.75
percent.


The euro changed hands at 1.3565 dollars, against 1.3549 dollars
late Thursday, 163.24 yen (163.16), 0.6831 pounds (0.6817) and
1.6483 Swiss francs (1.6477).


The dollar stood at 120.33 yen (120.41) and 1.2148 Swiss francs
(1.2158).


The pound was being traded at 1.9858 dollars (1.9872).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold rose to 681.30
dollars per ounce, from 674.20 dollars late on Thursday.

