

Hong Kong investors will closely watch the performance on the
Chinese markets for direction next week when they resume trading
on Tuesday after a week-long Labour Day holiday, dealers said.


"We will have to wait and see how the mainland markets will
perform when they reopen on Tuesday," said Castor Pang,
strategist at Sun Hung Kai Financial Group.


"There is a chance that (the Hong Kong stocks) could go higher.
It will depend on how the A-share perform on Tuesday. It they
fall, Hong Kong stocks will properly come down," he said.


Nevertheless, expectations that mainland bourses will post
further gains after resuming trade next week have pushed the
benchmark Hang Seng index up Friday, closing at a record closing
high of 20,841.08.


For the week to May 6, the index rose 314.58 points or 1.5
percent. Pang believes the index will trade at a supporting level
of 20,500 points.


Kenny Tang, associate director at Tung Tai Securities, was also
positive for the market outlook.


"Pent up demand for China shares should drive up the markets when
they resume trade," he said.


Tang said the market will also be buoyed by hopes that a
government land auction will attract strong bids from major real
estate developers and help boost the sector.


He also believes that investors will look at economic data from
the United States as well as Federal Reserve meeting for trading
leads.


"Events to watch include the US employment data (Friday) and the
FOMC meeting next week. On the local front, investors await the
land auction," he said.


Among the data to be released from the US are consumer credit and
trade balance for March as well as trade figures for April.

