

A majority of Qantas shareholders appear to have rejected a
multi-billion dollar takeover bid, meaning it will not proceed,
the private equity consortium behind the offer said Friday.


In a shock move, the Airline Partners Australia (APA) consortium
said it did not believe it had the 50 percent acceptances it
needed from shareholders to meet a 0900GMT deadline to extend the
bid.


"As at 7:00pm (Sydney time) on May 4, 2007, it appears that
acceptances have not reached the 50 percent level required to
extend the offer," APA said in a statement sent to AFP.


"If this is confirmed,  APA's offer for Qantas Airways Limited
will not proceed."


Media reports said APA secured only 46 percent acceptances, up 10
percent on the level the consortium reported early Friday but
still short of the critical 50 percent mark.


Analysts had expected a late rush of acceptances would get APA
over the line but the predicted support never materialised.


APA has waged a six-month campaign to take control of the iconic
Australian airline, hoping to win over investors by offering 5.45
dollars a share.


The offer was unanimously backed by the Qantas board.


The APA consortium comprises Australian companies Macquarie Bank
Ltd, Allco Finance Group Ltd and Allco Equitypartners, as well as
US buyout firm Texas Pacific Group and Canada's Onex Corp.


APA, which has warned that Qantas' share price will plummet if
the takeover does not succeed, stood by the bid, which some
shareholders said undervalued the company at a time when the
global aviation sector is booming.


"APA remains firm in the view that its ownership of and plans for
Qantas would have significantly enhanced the airline, guaranteed
strong growth and been beneficial for employees and customers,"
it said.


"The consortium partners also believe that the price offered for
Qantas shares was fair and reasonable and remains so.


"Qantas is an outstanding organisation with a first rate
management team and board."

