

The final statement of a conference on Iraq urged all
participants on Friday to support the transfer of security
responsibilities in the country from US-led to Iraqi forces.


"The participants agreed to... welcome offers by Arab and other
countries to support the development of the professional
capabilities of the Iraqi armed forces," said the statement, a
copy of which was obtained by AFP.


Iraq's neighbours and key international players meeting in the
Egyptian resort of Sharm el-Sheikh called for the speedy transfer
of security responsibilities but did not call for a withdrawal
timetable.


The participants pledged to "renew their support for the
government of Iraq's efforts to accelerate the preparedness of
its armed forces to assume full security and defence
responsibilities in their country."


The communique added that such a process "will pave the way for
the conclusion of the mandate of the multinational forces, whose
presence will not be open- ended."


It added that ending the coalition forces' presence in Iraq would
come "upon the request of and in accordance with timing to be
agreed by the government of Iraq."


Several Arab countries have repeatedly demanded a deadline for a
US troop pull- out, something both the Baghdad government of
Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki and Washington have always refused
to set.


Commenting on the final statement during a news conference,
Egyptian Foreign Minister Ahmed Abul Gheit said: "To have
unanimity... this was the maximum."

