

British Prime Minister Tony Blair insisted Friday that local and
regional poll results were a good platform to win a fourth
general election, even though his party suffered widespread
losses.


Blair, who is due to announce his departure plans next week, said
the results "provide a perfectly good springboard to go on and
win the next general election."


Centre-left Labour face a struggle to remain the biggest party in
the Scottish Parliament, seem set to lose overall control of the
Welsh Assembly having never polled so badly in the principality
and are on course to lose hundreds of English local council
seats.


A BBC estimate of the share of the vote across Britain put the
centre-right main opposition Conservatives on 41 percent, Labour
on 27 percent and the centre-left Liberal Democrats on 26
percent.


"Everyone said we were going to get hammered, it was going to be
a rout, and it's not turned out like that," Blair said at
Labour's London headquarters.


"We have done rather better in the English elections than we did
three years ago and in Wales we are going to retain control and
be the largest party and be the government.


"You always take a hit in the mid-term but these results provide
a perfectly good springboard to go on and win the next general
election."


Blair said it was "a dreadful set of results" for the Liberal
Democrats, and the Conservatives "have not broken through" in the
way they wanted.

