

Armed men have raided two towns in the east of the Democratic
Republic of Congo, burning houses, stealing livestock and leaving
at least two residents dead, witnesses said Friday.


The unidentified attackers, suspected by the army of being rebels
from the Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda (FDLR),
went on the rampage Thursday in the towns of Rutshuru and
Kanengera, further to the south.


"The gunfire began at about 7:30 pm (1830 GMT), from light and
heavy arms. It lasted for four hours," local administrator Deo
Mizerero told AFP of the violence in Rutshuru.


"Several houses were plundered in Rutshuru: one young man was
injured by a bullet and one man who was suffering from high blood
pressure had a heart attack and died.


"There was also an attack in Kalengera where one civilian was
killed by a bullet," he said.


Colonel Sultani Makenga, an army brigade commander based in
Rutshuru, told UN- backed radio station Okapi that the attackers
were ethnic Hutus from the FDLR rebel group that had been
attacking his troops in the area.


Witnesses said the attackers were hard to identify.


"Some were in military dress, others in civilian clothes. They
looted houses and stole goats," one resident said on condition of
anonymity.


The FDLR have been based in the east of Congo, bordering Rwanda
and Uganda, for the past 12 years and are seen as a major source
of instability in the Great Lakes region.


Many members are suspected of taking part in the 1994 genocide in
Rwanda which, according to the United Nations, claimed the lives
of 800,000 ethnic minority group Tutsis and moderates of the
majority Hutus.

