

Spain will not send more troops to Afghanistan to reinforce the
700 soldiers it already has deployed in the NATO-led force in the
country, Defence Minister Jose Antonio Alonso said Friday.


"We do not plan to augment our troops and it is not necessary,"
he told a joint news conference with his visiting Portuguese
counterpart Nuno Severiano Teixeira.


Spain will, however, send two teams of some 50 soldiers to
Afghanistan at the end of May or in early June to help train the
Afghan military, he said.


The minister was reacting to comments made by a Spanish military
commander in Afghanistan who said Thursday that Madrid should
send reinforcements to the west of the country to help put out
growing Taliban violence there.


"The greater the military presence, the easier it will be to
guarantee security," Colonel Miguel Garcia de las Hijas, chief of
general staff of the NATO-led International Security Assistance
Forces (ISAF) in western Afghanistan, told daily newspaper El
Pais.


Afghanistan's western province of Herat near the border with
Iran, where ISAF has stationed Spanish and Italian troops, had
been relatively calm until recently, compared to the south and
east, but in recent weeks Taliban militants have become more
active in the region.


The fundamentalist Taliban sheltered Al-Qaeda chief Osama bin
Laden and were ousted by US-led forces in 2001 after the
September 11 attacks on the United States but have since
regrouped to lead a bloody insurgency.


ISAF has about 37,000 troops in Afghanistan that are supporting
the government of President Hamid Karzai. Separately, there are
also around 11,000 US-led troops in Afghanistan.

