

Russia on Friday condemned the European Union for not
reprimanding Estonia on the treatment of its Russian-speaking
population and for "fostering the glorification of fascism."


In an angry statement, Russia's foreign ministry said the EU had
failed to act on its protests over recent actions by both Estonia
and its Baltic neighbour Latvia that sought to "re-evaluate the
results of World War II."


"Despite our repeated appeals to the EU... Brussels has ignored
the provocative lines taken by Tallinn and Riga... that insult
not just Russians but everyone who is against fascism and
extremism in Europe."


The statement said discrimination in both countries was fuelling
protests.


"As a result of these policies, amid the inaction of the European
Union, the Russian-speaking people of the Baltics have been left
without work or social prospects... creating an explosive
situation," the statement said.


Estonia was plunged into its worst diplomatic crisis since
independence from the Soviet Union in 1991 last week when the
authorities removed a memorial to Soviet soldiers who fought in
World War II from central Tallinn.


Russia reacted furiously, claiming police brutality in the break
up of ethnic- Russian protests against the decision, and saying
the crisis could affect Russia's relations with NATO and the
European Union.


Earlier Friday hundreds of teenage pro-Kremlin activists rallied
outside the European Union's Moscow headquarters to call for the
release of a fellow teenage activist arrested in Tallinn for
helping to organize protests.


Moscow city government also joined the chorus of protests against
Estonia, claiming police in Tallinn had "brutally beaten" one of
its officials in an unprovoked attack on Thursday, Interfax news
agency reported.


Anatoly Sorokin, deputy head of the international relations
department at Moscow city hall, who was on an official visit to
the city, was refused both medical help and access to the Russian
embassy, the report said.

