

Takeover news pushed European stock markets higher on Friday as
frenzied bid speculation swirled around British media giant
Reuters.


At the half-way stage, London's FTSE 100 index jumped 0.86
percent to 6,594.00 points, in Frankfurt the DAX 30 rose 0.34
percent to 7,502.01 points and the Paris CAC 40 increased 0.47
percent to 6,032.31.


The euro stood at 1.3561 dollars.


Wall Street share prices had surged to fresh heights on Thursday
as the stock market rally was stoked by generally upbeat economic
news and a bout of merger and takeover deals in recent days.


Intense takeover speculation has gripped the global media sector
this week following News Corp.'s surprise five-billion-dollar bid
on Tuesday for the Dow Jones Company, which owns The Wall Street
Journal.


In London on Friday, Reuters emerged as a bid target after
reporting a bid approach from an unnamed suitor -- sending the
group's share price rocketing.


Reuters shares surged by 31.9 percent to 649.75 pence following
the news, as media industry experts mulled the identity of the
mystery bidder.


London analysts speculated that Canadian group Thomson Financial,
US Internet titan Google, and the private equity sector could all
be in the frame.


Elsewhere in the media sector, British publisher Pearson soared
4.34 percent to 913.5 pence. In Paris, French media and
technology group Lagardere jumped 2.44 percent to 60.8 euros.


Back in London, EMI shares leapt 8.68 percent to 247.25 pence
after the music publisher confirmed that it had received a
"number" of preliminary takeover approaches.


Elswhere, German travel company TUI and British rival First
Choice, which are combining to create a global tourism giant,
said that they would consider selling their Irish businesses to
win European approval.


The news sent TUI's shares 1.96 percent higher to 20.80 euros,
while First Choice stock rallied 4.77 percent to 324.25 pence.


In US deals on Thursday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average stock
index closed at a record high while the broad-market Standard
Poor's 500 index was propelled to its highest level in almost
seven years.


The Dow blue chip index closed up 0.22 percent at 13,241.38
points, sealing its 18th record close this year and 22nd gain in
25 trading days.


The tech-rich Nasdaq composite finished up 0.30 percent at
2,565.46 points while the broad-market Standard Poor's 500 index
ended 0.43 percent higher at 1,502.39.


The SP closed above the psychologically-important 1,500 point
mark for the first time since September 2000.


In Asia on Friday, Hong Kong's key Hang Seng index closed up 0.77
percent on Friday at a record high 20,841.08 points as property
stocks gained hopes that a government land auction next week will
attract strong bids, dealers said.


The Tokyo market was shut on Friday owing to a public holiday.

