

Following are key points from a landmark document on tackling
greenhouse gas emissions, issued here on Friday by the UN's
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC).


EMISSIONS ARE RISING FAST


- Greenhouse gases rose by 70 percent between 1970 and 2004, from
28.7 to 49 billion tonnes per year in carbon dioxide (C02) or its
equivalent. From 1990 to 2004, the increase was 28 percent.


- CO2, which now accounts for more than three-quarters of
emissions, increased by 80 percent from 1970 and 28 percent from
1990.


- The biggest rise has been in energy supply, an increase of 145
percent from 1970-2004, followed by transport (120 percent).


- Greater energy efficiency has been hugely outweighed by the
rise in global income and the world's population, which have
added to the burning of oil, coal and gas.


- On present trends, emissions are projected to rise 25-90
percent by 2030, compared with levels in 2000.


- Between two-thirds and three-quarters of this increase is
projected to come from developing countries, although their per
capita emission levels will remain well below those of rich
countries.


- Developed countries accounted for 20 percent of the global
population in 2004 but 46 percent of global greenhouse-gas
emissions.


STABILISING EMISSIONS: THE COST (*)


The deeper and faster the cut, the higher the cost. But the bill
can be relatively modest and existing technologies, or those
within reach, can be used. The cost of acting now should be
weighed against the risk that delay will drive up the cost in the
medium and long term, says the report.


It highlights these scenarios among others:


- Stabilising emissions at 445-535 parts per million (ppm) of CO2
equivalent would limit the overall rise in global warming since
pre-industrial times to 2.0-2.8 C (3.6-5.0 F). The cost in 2030
would be less than 0.12 percentage points of annual world GDP
growth.


- Stabilisation at 535-590ppm: warming would be restricted to
2.8-3.2 C (5.0-5.8 F) over pre-industrial times, clipping less
than 0.1 points of the GDP growth rate in 2030.


- Stabilisation at 590-710ppm: warming would be 3.2-4.0 C
(5.8-7.2 F), costing less than 0.06 percent of GDP growth rate in
2030.


OPTIONS FOR LIMITING EMISSIONS


The report emphasises a "price for carbon," or passing on to
producers and consumers a price that would indirectly reflect the
environmental damage from using fossil fuels. A sustained price
encourages energy efficiency and the switch to cleaner sources.


- Possibilities include a regulatory approach, taxes and charges
and a carbon market, where polluters can swap tradable permits.
Voluntary agreements between governments and industry are
"politically attractive" but most have "not achieved significant
emissions reductions beyond business as usual."


- Carbon pricing would be especially effective in the power
sector. A sustained price of 20-50 dollars per tonne of CO2 would
transform the power supply industry, giving renewables a share of
up to 35 percent of the market by 2030, nearly double that of
2005.


- Renewable energies such as wind, solar and geothermal should be
encouraged. Options for helping them include producer subsidies,
preferential tariffs and obligations for buying from these
sources.


- Promoting energy efficiency. Tougher building standards,
mandatory fuel economy, biofuel blending and investment in better
public transport are among the policy options. In buildings,
about 30 percent of emissions could be avoided by 2030 "with net
economic benefit."


- Carbon sequestration, a controversial prototype technology by
which underground chambers store CO2 emissions from coal-fired
plants, has "the potential to make an important contribution" to
mitigating emissions by 2030, although technical, economic and
regulatory factors will wield a big influence.


- Nuclear power, which accounted for 16 percent of electricity
supply in 2005, could have an 18 percent share by 2030 with a CO2
price of up to 50 dollars per tonne, "but safety, weapons
proliferation and waste remain as concerns."


- Geo-engineering, or unconventional schemes that seek to offset
global warming by setting up a sunshade of mirrors in space or
sowing the oceans with iron to encourage uptake of atmospheric
CO2, is bluntly rejected. "(These) remain largely speculative and
unproven, and with the risk of unknown side-effects," says the
report.


(*) Emissions are measured in parts per million (ppm) of CO2 or
its equivalent. In pre-industrial times, CO2 was approximately
278ppm; in 2005, it was 379ppm and is rising at around 2ppm
annually. Global temperatures have already risen by 0.74 C (1.33
F) since 1906. The cost of reduction depends on scenarios where
the main factors are population growth, energy efficiency and the
switch out of polluting fossil fuels.

