

European Environment Commissioner Stavros Dimas called Friday for
the international community to launch talks in December on a new
climate change agreement.


"Negotiations on a new global climate change agreement must be
launched at the next UN ministerial conference in December," he
said, after the release of a key report by the Intergovernmental
Panel on Climate Change (IPCC).


"It is now time for the rest of the international community to
follow our lead and commit to ambitious reduction targets," he
said in a statement.


The 27 European Union countries have committed to reduce
emissions of greenhouse gases by 20 percent by 2020, compared to
1990 levels.


The bloc has offered to cut them by 30 percent if other major
polluters like the United States, China, India and Brazil do so
as well.


The IPCC report, released in Bangkok Friday, presented a best-
case scenario of limiting global warming to 2.0-2.4 degrees
Celsius (3.6-4.3 degrees Fahrenheit), generally recognised as the
threshold when the most extreme ravages of climate change will
begin.


To keep global warming within that range, nations would have to
make sure that greenhouse gases -- blamed for most of the world's
rising temperature -- must start declining by 2015.


The report said emissions would have to be cut to between 50 and
85 percent of year 2000 levels by 2050, and urged the greater use
of renewable energy sources such as solar, wind and hydro-power.


The EU also plans to increase the use of renewable energy forms
by 20 percent by 2020.


The current Kyoto climate treaty set many targets up until 2012.

