

EU regulators on Friday approved German department store
KarstadtQuelle's takeover of British travel company MyTravel
through its Thomas Cook subsidiary.


"The (European) Commission has concluded that the proposed
transaction would not signifciantly impede effectivce
competition," the European Union's antitrust watchdog said.


KarstadtQuelle announced plans in February to buy MyTravel and
merge it with its Thomas Cook unit in a deal that would transform
the department store that nearly went bust in 2004 into a major
player in the travel market.


Under the deal, no cash would change hands since MyTravel's
shareholders will receive instead 48 percent of the combined
company.


The new merged group, to be called Thomas Cook Group Plc and
headquartered in London, would have combined annual sales of
around 12 billion euros (16.3 billion dollars). The new company
would also be listed on the London Stock Exchange.


MyTravel chief executive Peter McHugh called the EU approval "a
significant milestone on the way to completing the merger." He
added: "The merger is clearly in the best interests of our
shareholders."


His sentiments were echoed by Thomas Cook chief executive Manny
Fontenla-Novoa who said: "We are now one step closer to being
able to deliver the substantial benefits of this merger to all
our staff, customers, business partners and shareholders."


The merger remains subject to a number of conditions, including
approval from MyTravel shareholders, who will hold their annual
general meeting on May 29.


The companies aim to list shares in the new group on June 19.

