

The United States voiced support for a report released Friday by
the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) laying out
proposals to fight climate change.


"The United States was an active and constructive participant in
the international dialogue among experts and governments meeting
in Bangkok," said Dr. Harlan Watson, US Department of State
Senior Climate Negotiator and Special Representative.


"The result of this exchange is a summary document that will help
policy makers around the world make more informed decisions in
addressing the economic, energy and associated technological
implications of global climate change," he said in a department
statement released in Washington.


After five days of testy negotiations, experts from 120 nations
agreed on a series of recommendations which they said were cheap
and easy enough for political leaders to act on right away.


"If we continue to do what we are doing now, we are in deep
trouble," said Ogunlade Davidson, co-chair of the UN's
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), which produced
the report.


The IPCC report said individuals could do their part through
lifestyle changes and stressed that the earlier the world took
action, the greater the benefits would be.


The US statement said "the United States is leading the world in
significant investments in climate change science and technology
that provide a thorough understanding of climate research
critical to the policy process.


"The US is engaged both domestically and internationally in a
broad range of activities aimed at developing and deploying clean
energy technologies, promoting energy efficiency, and sustaining
economic growth," the State Department communique said.

