

US President George W. Bush confirmed Friday that he will attend
his first summit with all 10 Southeast Asian leaders, including
the region's most troublesome member, Myanmar, in September.


Bush told visiting Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong at
the White House that he would attend the gathering on his way to
the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) forum in Australia.


"Today I talked to Prime Minister Lee about America's desire to
stay in close contact with not only Singapore, but our partners
in what we call the ASEAN nations," Bush said during a join
appearance with Lee.


"To this end, the prime minister has invited me, and I've
accepted an invitation, to go back to Singapore to talk to our
partners and friends about trade and security," said the US
president.


"I encouraged the president to deepen and strengthen the already
good ties between the Southeast Asian countries, ASEAN and
America, both as a group and also bilaterally, individually, with
single countries," said Lee.


"I suggested to the president that we should consider a suitable
new initiative, which perhaps would be able to take our relations
another step forward," the prime minister said without offering
more details.


Bush has over the last couple of years met annually with leaders
of seven ASEAN states -- Brunei, Indonesia, Malaysia, the
Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam -- which are also
APEC members -- at the sidelines of the forum's annual talks.


ASEAN's other members Cambodia, Laos and Myanmar are not APEC
members.


Myanmar has been a thorn in relations between ASEAN and
Washington, which has imposed investment and trade sanctions on
Yangon, where the ruling junta is accused of massive human rights
violations, suppression of political dissent and refusal to bring
democratic reforms.

