

BMW Oracle scored a potentially key success in their Louis
Vuitton Cup second round robin meeting with Italy's Luna Rossa
off Valencia on Friday, coming from behind to stay top of the
leaderboard as the semi-finals beckon.


The Americans had to come from behind for the third time in
succession as they bagged the two points to move the syndicate
onto 29 points and open up a two- point gap on their rivals.


Emirates Team New Zealand did their own chances no harm as they
also scored a fine success, in their case cruising to a 43sec
victory on the south course over Spain's Desafio Espanol, who
featured Spanish Princess Cristina as their non- participating
18th crew member.


The New Zealanders consolidated their third place as they moved
to 26 points for a comfortable five-point cushion over the host
nation's representative.


Nonetheless, Desafio have two races in hand on the leading pair,
as well fifth- placed Swedes Victory Challenge, and one on the
Kiwis as the jury on Thursday ruled they can replay their match
with Italy's Mascalzone after the latter, who won Wednesday's
standoff, committed a backstay infringement.


Victory Challenge defeated stragglers United Internet Team
Germany by almost aminute and a half after a relatively
straightforward race which saw the Swedes close to within a
single point of Desafio going into the afternoon session of
flight six.


Mascalzone shrugged off their wrangle with Desafio with a win
over compatriots +39 Challenge while South Africa's Team
Shosholoza raced past tailenders China Team putting a col two
minutes between them as both outfits look to inch up the learning
curve.


China Team has not given up the ghost but they have a mountain to
climb to overcome a seven-point gap on the top four.


The double dose of racing followed storms which washed out
Thursday's schedule.

