

Swiss Senator Dick Marty said on Friday that the latest volume of
his report for the Council of Europe into the alleged secret
transfer of terrorist suspects by the United States will include
statements from disgruntled CIA agents.


"They spoke to me because they found what was happening to be
disgusting," Marty said in an interview with Swiss newspaper La
Liberte.


Their statements will help to "strengthen the findings of the
first report published on June 6, 2006, on the secret activities
of the CIA in Europe," Marty said.


The latest volume of his report will be presented to the Council
of Europe on June 8 in Paris.


Last year's report found that 14 European countries colluded in
or tolerated the secret transfer of terrorist suspects by the
United States, and two of them -- Poland and Romania -- may have
harboured CIA detention centres.


The report identified a "spider's web" of landing points around
the world used by the US authorities for the practice of
"extraordinary rendition" -- the undercover transfer of security
suspects to third countries or US-run detention centres.


The Swiss senator told La Liberte that he believed Western
governments had signed secret agreements after the September 11,
2001 attacks in the United States to give more power to their
security services.


"This is why some countries are opposed to my investigations," he
said.


Marty would not specify which countries he had in mind, but did
say that Britain, France and Germany "knew what was happening...
but they didn't act."


He also believes secret flights by the US Central Intelligence
Agency are continuing, "but I like to think this is not happening
any more in Europe."


He was also sharply critical of the so-called "war on terror"
launched by US President George W. Bush after September 11,
saying it was an excuse to attack personal freedoms.


"The war on terror is a pretext to curb individual liberties.
These (liberties) irritate those who are in power," Marty said.

