

Britain's Queen Elizabeth II on Friday toured the first permanent
English settlement in America near the Virginia coast, where
pioneers landed 400 years ago and changed the course of history.


The queen and her husband, Prince Philip, were accompanied by US
Vice President Dick Cheney and his wife, Lynne, as they arrived
for a tour of Jamestown's archaeological dig site and living
history museum.


Crowds of clapping and camera-snapping onlookers gathered along
the edges of a brown dirt path to watch the queen, who wearing a
turquoise hat and matching dress accepted bouquets of flowers
from well-wishers.


The smiling queen walked past a series of triangular thatched-
roof houses built in 17th century style and into the main square,
where she watched actors representing the English settlers and
their African slaves.


"We mark the 14th of May, 1607 as a providential moment in the
life of this nation," Cheney said.


With the arrival of the settlers, "a great and noble tradition
was set in motion in America," he said.


The 104 men and boys who founded the New World's first permanent
English settlement in 1607 eventually led to a total of 13
colonies which would become the United States, but also brought
unrivaled bloodshed to Native American tribes.


Cheney said the queen and Prince Philip "are held in the highest
regard in this nation," and added: "We deeply appreciate your
presence this morning."


The queen was also to visit the nearby College of William and
Mary, the second- oldest US university founded by royal charter
in 1693, and Prince Philip was to inspect a replica of the Susan
Constant, the largest of three ships that brought the Jamestown
settlers across the Atlantic.


During the queen's six-day trip, which began Thursday, she
planned to take in a day at the races at the Kentucky Derby on
Saturday, and a White House state dinner with President George W.
Bush on Monday.


The queen first visited the Jamestown settlement 50 years ago.

