

Britain's Queen Elizabeth II on Friday toured the first permanent
English settlement in America near the Virginia coast, where
pioneers landed 400 years ago and changed the course of history.


The queen and her husband, Prince Philip, were accompanied by US
Vice President Dick Cheney and his wife, Lynne, as they arrived
for a tour of Jamestown's archaeological dig site and living
history museum.


Crowds of clapping and camera-snapping onlookers gathered along
the edges of a brown dirt path to watch the queen, who wearing a
turquoise hat and matching dress accepted bouquets of flowers
from well-wishers.


The smiling queen walked past a series of thatched-roof houses
built in the 17th century style of the era and into the main
square, where she watched actors representing the English
settlers and their African slaves.


The 104 men and boys who founded the New World's first permanent
English settlement in 1607 set in motion the creation of the
United States, but also brought unrivaled bloodshed to Native
American tribes.


Later, the queen was to visit the nearby College of William and
Mary, the second-oldest US university founded by royal charter in
1693, and Prince Philip was to inspect a replica of the Susan
Constant, the largest of three ships that brought the Jamestown
settlers across the Atlantic.


During the queen's six-day trip, which began Thursday, she was
also to take in a day at the races at the Kentucky Derby on
Saturday, and a White House state dinner with President George W.
Bush on Monday.


The queen first visited the Jamestown settlement 50 years ago.

