

Leeds United entered administration on Friday just hours after
the club's Supporters Trust claimed it was ready to buy the club.


Leeds were almost certain to be relegated to League One after
this weekend's matches, dropping to the third tier of English
football for the first time in their history.


Leeds's appointed administrators KPMG have agreed to sell the
business and its assets to a newly formed company called Leeds
United Football Club Limited, the directors of which include
current owner Ken Bates.


The move is widely expected to have been deliberate in an attempt
to stave off a 10-point penalty next season.


Instead, the club have been docked the points this campaign,
automatically relegating them, and having accepted they were
certain to go down, barring the most unlikely turn of events
which would see them needing to overturn a goal difference
disadvantage of nine to Hull City, they can now focus on next
season's promotion push without any obstacles.


The club was in major financial difficulty and administration was
seen as inevitable.


Leeds's move could be seen as a clever one as Rotherham found
themselves relegated to League Two this season after failing to
overcome the 10-point penalty imposed on them for going into
administration at the start of the season.


It is only 15 years since Leeds last won the title, when Eric
Cantona was on their books, and only six years since they reached
the Champions League semi- finals, though under the then regime
of Peter Ridsdale they ran up crippling debts of around
100million pounds.

