

Wall Street's remarkable rally kept rolling Friday amid increased
news of mergers and a report on US job growth that showed
economic conditions slowing but not stalling.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average gained 23.48 points (0.18
percent) to 13,264.86 at 1415 GMT, extending gains after setting
another all-time record high Thursday. The blue-chip index has
risen in 22 of the past 25 trading days.


The Nasdaq composite climbed 7.04 points (0.27 percent) to
2,572.50 and the broad-market Standard & Poor's 500 index
added 4.98 points (0.33 percent) to 1,507.37. Both indexes sat at
multiyear highs, with the S&P nearing its all- time high of
March 2000.


More merger news was a factor in keeping the rally alive. Reports
said Microsoft and Yahoo have revived talks on a merger or
alliance, while financial information group Reuters confirmed it
had received a takeover approach from an unnamed suitor.


On the economic front, the government reported US payrolls grew
by 88,000, the weakest since November 2004 and below most
estimates.


But some analysts said the report confirms easing inflation
pressures that will help the economy get through the current soft
patch.


Dick Green at Briefing.com said the payrolls report "isn't bad,
but it also isn't great. It is consistent with 2.0 to 2.5 percent
GDP (gross domestic product) growth forecasts."


Fred Dickson at DA Davidson said the data should not derail the
current rally.


"While the number of new jobs created was the lowest since
November 2004, the economy appears to be moving forward with
lessening inflation pressure as evidenced by only a 0.2 percent
increase in average hourly earnings," he said.


"The stock market continues to focus on both earnings and
mergers."


Sparking the tech sector gains was Internet giant Yahoo, up 4.70
dollars to 17 percent to 32.88 after The Wall Street Journal
reported the renewed merger talks with Microsoft, down 53 cents
at 30.44.


The report said the two tech giants were considering joining
forces to counter the dominance of search-engine titan Google,
down 3.91 dollars at 469.32.


Shares in Reuters meanwhile surged 14.57 dollars or 25 percent to
73.49 after it confirmed the takeover bid, the latest move to
consolidate in the media industry since Rupert Murdoch's News
Corp. launched a bid Tuesday for Dow Jones & Co., publisher
of The Wall Street Journal.


Dow Jones shares traded up 20 cents at 55.97 and News Corp.
gained 18 cents at 23.62.

