

Wall Street's remarkable rally kept rolling at the opening Friday
amid increased news of mergers and a report on US job growth that
showed economic conditions slowing but not stalling.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average edged up 6.01 points (0.05
percent) to 13,247.39 in the first trades, after setting another
all-time record high Thursday. The blue-chip index has risen in
22 of the past 25 trading days.


The Nasdaq composite climbed 5.34 points (0.21 percent) to
2,570.80 and the broad-market Standard & Poor's 500 index
added 3.02 points (0.20 percent) to 1,505.41.


More merger news was a factor in keeping the rally alive. Reports
said Microsoft and Yahoo have revived talks on a merger or
alliance, while financial information group Reuters confirmed it
had received a takeover approach from an unnamed suitor.


On the economic front, the government reported US payrolls grew
by 88,000, the weakest since November 2004 and below most
estimates.


But some analysts said the report confirms easing inflation
pressures that will help the economy get through the current soft
patch.


Dick Green at Briefing.com said the payrolls report "isn't bad,
but it also isn't great. It is consistent with 2.0 to 2.5 percent
GDP growth forecasts."


Fred Dickson at DA Davidson said the data should not derail the
current rally: "While the number of new jobs created was the
lowest since November 2004, the economy appears to be moving
forward with lessening inflation pressure as evidenced by only a
0.2 percent increase in average hourly earnings. The stock market
continues to focus on both earnings and mergers."

