

Six Premiership clubs are mulling legal action against the
Premier League for failing to deduct points from West Ham over
the Carlos Tevez and Javier Mascherano transfer dispute,
according to Wigan's owner Dave Whelan.


The Premier League last week handed West Ham a 5.5-million-pound
fine, instead of a points deduction, for irregularities over the
two Argentinians last August.


"There's six clubs involved and I know there are three at present
receiving legal advice," Whelan, whose club is in a fight with
West Ham for Premiership survival, was quoted as saying in The
Guardian newspaper.


"You have owners involved as well as chairmen," he added. "You
have the likes of Middlesbrough, the likes of Fulham where the
owners, like myself, stay in the background. They have come
forward big-style to say 'we're not happy with this'."


Whelan feels the situation could be averted if West Ham do go
down - which he sees as a fitting punishment for breaking the
rules and their "blatant lies".


"Football should be decided on the football field, and I'm a big
believer in that," remarked Whelan.


"If we have to go to court then it will be a shame, but this is a
very, very serious offence West Ham have committed.


"I've no anger directed towards West Ham or their fans, apart
from the fact they told lies.


"Whether the people who told those lies are still there or not ,
I don't know.


"But West Ham have broken the rules and they should have had a
much stiffer penalty than 5.5million pounds - a figure that is
peanuts to the 35million pounds they will get if they stay up.


"They should have had what every other club would have got if
they had done this, and been punished properly with a 10-point
penalty.


"Good luck to them because they've got away with it, but I hope
in the end that justice prevails and they go down."

