

Beatles legend Sir Paul McCartney has won the album of the year
gong at the Classical Brit Awards with a record inspired by his
late first wife Linda.


The 64-year-old, currently going through a messy divorce from his
second wife Heather Mills, described the album "Ecce Cor Meum" as
"a labour of love" which took over 10 years to create.


He began composing the album -- which won him his latest award
Thursday night -- before Linda died of breast cancer in 1998, but
it was only finally premiered last year, in London's Royal Albert
Hall.


McCartney said at the time: "I started it when Linda was alive
... When she died it stalled me. I just couldn't do anything,
really. I was just grieving. I gradually got back into it, I just
sort of wrote my sadness out."


"I remember sitting at the keyboards, crying -- more like
weeping, actually. It was kind of therapeutic. I still find it a
very sad piece of music, but in an uplifting way."


But he did not dedicate it to Linda. "I had found a new woman in
Heather and it wasn't really appropriate to dedicate it to
Linda," he said.


McCartney and Mills appeared in court in London last month for a
preliminary hearing in their divorce proceedings.


Press reports have suggested McCartney, whose fortune is
estimated at up to one billion dollars (740 million euros), is
planning to offer around 50 million dollars to his estranged wife
as settlement to end the bitter divorce battle.


McCartney will next month release his latest album, "Memory
Almost Full", which he describes as an emotional look back at his
life with echoes of some of the songs he wrote for The Beatles.

