

Indonesian police said Friday the former chief of state airline
Garuda will remain in jail while they finish their probe into the
murder of a leading rights activist.


Indra Setiawan and a former secretary of the national carrier
were arrested last month in connection with the death from
arsenic poisoning of Munir Said Thalib on a Garuda flight to
Amsterdam in September 2004.


They were expected to be released Friday after the 20-day limit
for questioning suspects in custody without charge expired.


But national police spokesman Sisno Adiwinoto said their
detention has been extended by another 40 days, as permitted
under Indonesian law.


"We still need them as we are still working to complete the
investigation dossier," Adiwinoto told reporters.


The pair are being questioned over the falsification of documents
for a Garuda pilot whose conviction for Munir's murder has been
overturned.


The documents allowed the off-duty pilot to travel at the last
minute on Munir's flight from Singapore to Amsterdam.


The Garuda pilot was jailed for 14 years for the murder but the
Indonesian Supreme Court last year overturned his conviction,
sparking outcry among international rights groups who demanded
the case be reopened.


Rights activists including Munir's widow have accused the
government and police of dragging their feet in investigating the
case because the nation's powerful intelligence was alleged to be
behind the killing.


Adiwinoto said he could not reveal findings of the current probe
which must be submitted to the Attorney General's office.


Munir made powerful enemies through his campaigning during the
rule of Indonesian dictator Suharto. He had worked to expose
military involvement in human rights violations during East
Timor's 1999 vote for independence from Indonesia.

