

Cypriot conservationists were outraged on Friday over a
government decision to allow thousands of hunters to shoot
migrating Turtle Doves in a move they say contravenes EU
directives.


Birdwatchers say that permitting hunters to shoot Turtle Doves
poses an "unacceptable threat" to a species declining across
Europe.


Moreover, organisations like Birdlife Cyprus say the permits to
allow shooting this Sunday and the following Wednesday are
nothing more than an election ploy to appease the influential
hunting lobby.


"They are going ahead with shooting these birds because of the
presidential elections, there is no other reason to shoot these
birds while on their way to breeding grounds from Africa,"
Birdlife Cyprus head Martin Hellicar told AFP.


Cyprus goes to the polls in February 2008 to elect a new
president. The last time Turtle Dove shooting was allowed in
spring was back in 1993.


The government has cited a derogation under EU law that can
permit shooting during this period -- for purposes of population
control. But this is contested by bird conservationists.


"These doves will be hit as they pass through Cyprus... The EU
birds' directive bans shooting during migration towards nesting
areas to ensure birds can successfully replenish their numbers,"
said Hellicar.


Birdlife International, a global alliance of conservation
organisations, has called on the European Commission to step in
and prevent the shootings from going ahead.


Malta, another European Union country which permits spring
hunting, is currently the object of legal action by the European
Commission.


"This will also affect Cyprus tourism, as Germans, Britons and
Scandinavians don't like people shooting at little birds," warned
Hellicar.


Official figures show that between 19,000 and 30,000 Turtle Doves
are shot in Cyprus during the existing autumn shooting season.

