

Emirates Team New Zealand, steering towards the Luis Vuitton Cup
semi-finals, faced a right royal Spanish challenge in Friday's
round robin second phase match against Desafio Espanol as
Princess Cristina was on board the hosts' vessel.


The New Zealanders are currently third while Desafio occupy the
fourth and final qualifying spot and their hopes of moving
through gained a boost overnight when the race jury ruled Italian
challenger Mascalzone must replay the Spanish after a backstay
infringement on the way to a now scrubbed win.


Princess Cristina, 41, went aboard as the (non-competing) 18th
crew member of the Desafio boat to add to the experience she
gained last year when she witnessed first hand an Act 12 regatta,
also off Valencia, when Desafio took on Italy's +39 challenge.


The princess will be the first royal actually to sail with
Desafio, only the fourth Spanish challenger for the America's Cup
that will pit the Louis Vuitton campion against defender Alinghi
of Switzerland, though Crown Prince Felipe visited the team base
last month.


One of Spain's most famous and most passionate sailors is King
Juan Carlos, Cristina's father, who competed in the 1972 Munich
Olympic Games aboard a Dragon class boat.


Three years ago he was himself 18th crewman, aboard Alinghi, for
a race against Emirates Team New Zealand.


Cristina's own yachting pedigree saw her be a reserve for the
1988 Spanish Olympic team in the 470 class at the Seoul Games
while Prince Felipe participated in the 1992 Barcelona Games in
the Soling class.

