

The State Department confirmed Friday having circulated
guidelines to Israelis and Palestinians about the next
confidence-building measures to be taken as part of efforts to
revive the peace process.


But department deputy spokesman Tom Casey played down the notion
that the document tried to enforce a strict timetable for
implementing the measures.


"These are suggestions and ideas that we've had and we've
circulated -- it's not any kind of formal agreement nor is it
something that's being forced on anybody," Casey told reporters.


Casey said the guidelines concerned measures laid down in the so-
called Road Map of peace steps unveiled by major power brokers in
2003 but which has largely gone unimplemented.


He said the steps include "easing some of the burdens on the
Palestinian people, including through steps to enhance access and
transport, and of course on the Palestinian side making sure
there are efforts taken to ensure that while that is being done
that those kinds of things aren't being taken advantage of to
foment terrorism."


Earlier Friday, chief Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erakat said the
US document set out a timetable for implementing the measures.


Israeli press reports said the timeline included mid-June targets
for Israel to dismantle some roadblocks in the West Bank and for
the Palestinians to submit a detailed plan for ending rocket
attacks on southern Israel by militants in the Gaza Strip.


Casey said he did not think the document proposed such firm
deadlines for action.


"There's a general discussion, but as I'm aware of it there is no
effort to try and say, 'Next week you'll do this, the week after
that you'll do that,'" he said.


"The idea would certainly be do to these in fairly quick order,
though," he added.

