

Bank of America Friday sued Dutch group ABN Amro for breach of an
agreement to sell the US financial titan Chicago-based LaSalle
bank, a court document showed.


A day after a court in the Netherlands halted the sale of
LaSalle, Bank of America filed a federal suit in New York saying
ABN Amro was in "breach of representations and warranties" in its
April 22 agreement to sell the subsidiary that holds Chicago-
based LaSalle Bank Corporation.


At the time of the deal, ABN Amro had announced that 21 billion
dollars was a world-class price for LaSalle, which North
Carolina-based Bank of America said it had been willing to pay
for an acquisition of "great strategic importance."


In the heated saga of rival bids for ABN Amro, a Dutch court
ruled Thursday that ABN Amro cannot sell the unit without
shareholder approval, dealing a blow to ABN Amro's plans to
accept a friendly takeover bid by British bank Barclays.


The decision to freeze the sale bolsters a proposed rival bid for
ABN Amro by a three-bank consortium led by Royal Bank of Scotland
(RBS).


The day the LaSalle deal was announced, ABN Amro also said it had
agreed to merge with Barclays.


"The Barclays transaction is conditioned upon the sale of LaSalle
for at least 21 billion dollars," Bank of America's court filing
said.


"Bank of America's acquisition of LaSalle, by contrast, is not
conditioned upon the Barclays transaction or any other
transaction," the document said.


As a result of the Dutch court decision Thursday, "ABN Bank is
now in breach of its representations that no shareholder vote is
required," it said.

