

Germany expects an agreement to be reached between UN Security
Council members on Kosovo's future status, Defence Minister Franz
Josef Jung said Friday on a visit to the disputed province.


"I think it is (a) positive sign what we hear from London that
they are moving towards drafting a common resolution for the UN
Security Council," said Jung.


Jung, on a two-day trip to the breakaway Serbian province, was
referring to a meeting Thursday of the Contact Group of nations
overseeing the process to determine Kosovo's future.


In the coming weeks, the Security Council is to decide on a
proposal for Kosovo's internationally supervised independence, as
backed by the United States and European Union but staunchly
opposed by Serbia and Russia.


There are fears that if Moscow wields its veto in the Security
Council to block the creation of an independent Kosovo, the
province's leaders will unilaterally declare independence.


However, the German minister said it was of "utmost importance"
to settle Kosovo's status through the Security Council to help
the future development of the province and the Balkans.


"We believe that we will have a joint resolution. We are focussed
on it right now," Jung told reporters in Pristina through an
official translator.


"We have planned after the settlement of the status question to
start a police and... rule-of-law mission in order to make a
European contribution to support for Kosovo," he said.


"These are critical and vital steps to open up and develop a
future perspective for the people in this region."


On Thursday, Jung visited some of the 2,000 German peacekeepers
deployed in Kosovo since NATO bombing ended a brutal crackdown by
Serbian forces on independence-seeking ethnic Albanians in 1999.


UN envoy Martti Ahtisaari's plan for Kosovo would hand the
territory's ethnic Albanian majority independence monitored by a
EU-led mission.

