

The United Nations children's fund said Friday that 13.5 million
dollars (10 million euros) are urgently needed to aid hundreds of
thousands of people displaced by renewed fighting in the Somali
capital Mogadishu.


"For the 365,000 displaced people who have fled the Somali
capital, among them thousands of women and children, the
situation is becoming ever more precarious," UNICEF spokeswoman
Veronique Taveau told journalists.


The funds are required to help address the nutritional, health,
educational and protection needs of these highly vulnerable
people, she added.


The majority of those displaced by fighting between Somalia's
transitional government (TFG) and their Ethiopian allies, and
Islamist and clan-based insurgents, are women, children under 14
and the elderly, the organisation said.


The high number of displaced people still within Mogadishu is
straining access to basic services and has contributed to
worsening public sanitation, increasing the risk of cholera, it
added.


The fighting has also made it more difficult to reach vulnerable
children in many parts of central and southern Somalia, UNICEF
said.


The organisation has appealed for a total of 33.3 million dollars
to meet its aid commitments in Somalia for 2007, which has so far
been 40 percent funded.


The UN Security Council on Monday urged all warring sides in
Somalia to agree a ceasefire and deny safe haven to extremist
elements while pressing for increased humanitarian aid for the
battered country's population.


The council statement also asked UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon
"to immediately begin appropriate contingency planning for a
possible UN mission, to be deployed if the Security Council
decided to authorize such a mission."


The recent fighting was among the heaviest since the 1991 ouster
of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre plunged the country into anarchy.

