

The United States on Friday urged Iraq's parliament to reconsider
its reported plans to take a two-month summer recess, warning
that this sends "the wrong signal" to Iraqis and the world.


At the White House, national security spokesman Gordon Johndroe
noted that the US Ambassador to Iraq, Ryan Crocker, had raised
Washington's objections with Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki.


"US officials, including Ambassador Crocker, have said this may
send the wrong signal not only to the international community but
to the Iraqi people," Johndroe told reporters.


"This isn't like our Congress, who can go back and forth between
their district (and Washington). It's more difficult -- I don't
need to say why," he added, in an obvious reference to deadly
violence wracking Iraq.


US lawmakers have sharply criticized the possibility that their
Iraqi counterparts might take two months off this summer, noting
that many of the key laws sought by Washington have yet to pass.


Crocker, speaking on the sidelines of a regional security
conference on Iraq at the Egyptian Red Sea resort of Sharm el-
Sheikh, said he had raised Washington's objections to Maliki, who
agreed.


"The prime minister's attitude when we talked about it was it
shouldn't be two months, it shouldn't be one month, it shouldn't
be a week -- maybe a weekend," Crocker told reporters.


Crocker described US objections as "how can you go away for the
summer when you've got both Iraqi and American soldiers out there
fighting and dying" to give Iraqi lawmakers room to forge
consensus on critical legislation.


"Now, what's eventually going to happen? Well, in the new Iraq,
the Maliki administration cannot order the Council of
Representatives, the legislative branch, to stay in session if it
doesn't want to. Clearly, we all hope and expect they'll do the
responsible thing," said the diplomat.

