

Sri Lanka's national carrier is to halt nocturnal flights from
Friday, virtually shutting the island's only international
airport at night, amid fears of more nocturnal Tamil Tiger raids.


Airport officials said the facility will virtually shut for night
operations as the majority of international airlines that fly
into Colombo had already changed their schedules to fly during
the day.


Western nations have asked their nationals to avoid non-essential
travel to Sri Lanka and travel agents Friday reported heavy
cancellations of airline and holiday bookings in the tropical
island.


Airlines were asked to stop night flying from May 10 when the
Bandaranaike International Airport will be open only from 4:00 am
(2230 GMT) to 10:00 pm (1730 GMT), President Mahinda Rajapakse's
office said in a statement.


"This position will be reviewed at regular intervals," Rajapakse
said.


SriLankan Airlines, which is partly owned and fully managed by
Emirates airlines of Dubai, accounts for 60 to 70 percent of
passenger and cargo traffic out of the airport located just
outside Colombo.


The airport shares a runway with the Sri Lankan air force, the
target of the first ever Tiger air raid on March 26.


Another attack a week ago also saw the flying Tigers again cross
international flight paths, and several passenger jets had to be
diverted to the southern Indian city of Chennai.


Emirates and Singapore Airlines have switched to daytime flying,
while Hong Kong's Cathay Pacific has totally suspended its
services to Sri Lanka.


The rebels, who have been fighting for a separate homeland in the
north and east of the island since 1972, are believed to be
operating five Czech-built Zlin-143 light aircraft smuggled onto
the island in pieces.


Sri Lanka's military has set up anti-aircraft guns at key
locations in Colombo and elsewhere fearing another rebel air raid
against vital installations.

