

Japan is growing impatient over delays to multilateral talks
aimed at convincing North Korea to abandon its nuclear arms
programme, a Japanese foreign ministry official said on Friday.


Mitsuo Sabaka spoke as he announced that Japanese Foreign
Minister Taro Aso and his South Korean counterpart, Song Min-
Soon, would meet Friday to discuss the talks on the sidelines of
an international conference on Iraq in Egypt.


He told AFP Tokyo was disappointed that no progress was being
made because of the delays related to the release of 25 million
dollars in North Korean funds that were frozen in a Macau bank.


"We are not happy that this money issue takes so much time and
blocks the process" of the six-party talks, Sakaba said.


"We are patient people, but we are wondering how long we can be
patient for this situation. So North Korea should understand that
today really the time has come for us to take action to shutting
down the Yongbyon" nuclear plant.


However, South Korea's Yonhap news agency reported on Friday that
the North Korean funds would probably be transferred by this
weekend.


The talks range the United States, China, Russia, Japan and South
Korea on one side and North Korea on the other.


A February agreement set April 14 as a deadline for the North to
shut its Yongbyon nuclear reactor as a first step in scrapping
its nuclear programmes.


This slipped by because of an unresolved dispute over North
Korean accounts at Macau's Banco Delta Asia. The funds had been
frozen since 2005 after the United States alleged they were the
proceeds of counterfeiting and money-laundering.


The US and Macau authorities said in March the funds had been
unfrozen and were available for collection. But there were
apparent problems in persuading a foreign bank to handle money
seen as tainted.

