

Guinean soldiers rioting over unpaid wages shot dead a night
watchman and wounded dozens of other people as they rampaged
through five cities and towns, witnesses said on Friday.


The soldiers riddled the man with bullets after he said he would
denounce them after they left their barracks in the town of
Nzerekore in the east of the country, a member of his family told
AFP by telephone.


It is the second night of trouble involving the military who are
demanding unpaid salaries totalling 300 million Guinean francs
(75,000 euros, about 100,000 dollars).


A military source said at least 25 people were injured in
crossfire on Wednesday night alone. There was no updated toll on
Friday.


According to several witnesses, gunfire reverberated all night
from military camps in Conakry, Macenta, which is some 800
kilometres (500 miles) south of Conakry, Kankan, about 600
kilometres east of the capital, and from southeastern Nzerekore
and Faranah.


The army alleges that the authorities have been holding back
wages since 1996, the year when one mutiny claimed the lives of
300 soldiers.


Shooting started off on Wednesday at the country's largest camp,
Alpha Yaya Diallo, situated near the airport and where ailing
President Lansana Conte's official residence is situated.


The camp houses elite commando and parachute units, and is also
the army headquarters.


On Wednesday night masked soldiers attacked and ransacked the
residence of Kerfalla Camara, the army commander.


Calm was reported to have returned Friday to the affected areas.


The rioting by an army that has shored up Conte's rule for years
is the first to hit the new government of consensus Prime
Minister Lansana Kouyate, who was appointed in April after weeks
of strikes against the regime.

