

Southeast Asian nations and their giant neighbour Japan are
aiming to sign a free trade deal in November, a senior official
said Friday.


Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) secretary general
Ong Keng Yong told AFP the signing is expected to take place when
the regional bloc's annual summit is held in Singapore.


The national leaders of ASEAN's dialogue partners China, Japan
and South Korea will also attend the summit as part of the ASEAN
Plus Three process.


"The target is for the agreement to be signed at the summit in
Singapore in November," Ong told AFP by telephone from Brunei
after a meeting there between Japan's Trade Minister Akira Amari
and ASEAN economic ministers.


Ong said however that both sides still have to settle certain
"modalities" in the agreement, including which products would
covered and which items will be put on the so-called sensitive
and exclusion lists.


"We managed to close the gap on the issue of modality. Now, we
need to go back home and settle the internal requirements ... so
that we can start actual negotiations very soon," he said.


A progress report on the negotiations will be heard when the
economic ministers meet in Manila in August, Ong said.


Japan is keen to strike a free trade deal with ASEAN, a market of
500 million people which is also strengthening its economic links
with China and South Korea.


ASEAN and China signed a framework agreement on comprehensive
economic cooperation in 2002 and are expected to form a bilateral
free trade area by 2010, which would cover nearly two billion
people.


In May last year, South Korea signed a free trade agreement with
ASEAN.


ASEAN member Thailand opted out of the pact due to some
disagreements but could sign on later.


ASEAN groups Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia,
Myanmar, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam.


Singapore is due to take over the group's revolving chair from
the Philippines in July.

