

The US state of Indiana on early Friday executed a man who
confessed to stabbing his elderly neighbor to death 23 years ago
while stealing his television.


David Woods, 42, was pronounced dead at 12:35 am (0535 GMT) by
lethal injection at the prison in Michigan City, Indiana,
according to a statement by prison officials.


Dickson was the 16th inmate put to death this year in the United
States.


Before his execution, he expressed regret for killing Juan
Placencia.


"Well I want everybody to know that I do have peace and that it's
through Jesus Christ that I have this peace," he said before
being executed.


"I want Juan's family to know I am truly sorry, I do have
remorse."


Woods was just 19 in 1984 when he and another man pushed their
way into 77-year- old Placencia's apartment. Woods stabbed his
neighbor 21 times and stole his television and cash, prison
documents said.


Police found Woods crying on the steps of the apartment complex
the next day, saying he found Placencia's body when he went to
use the telephone. He later confessed to the crime.


Amnesty International lobbied to have the death sentence
commuted, saying Woods paid his debt by spending more than half
his life in prison under threat of execution.


He appealed his sentence several times arguing that his initial
defense lawyer did not adequately invoke his traumatic childhood.


Several witnesses testified that Woods was subjected to
continuous sexual abuse and humiliation by their mother and her
successive boyfriends and that he had serious psychological
problems.


The American Bar Association recently denounced Indiana's death
penalty system as its "other lottery."


"We are deeply troubled that [the death penalty] is not imposed
in a fair or consistent manner upon only the very worst offenders
who have committed the very worst of offences," it said.


The United States has more than 3,300 prisoners on death row.

