

The White House on Friday tried to explain how the US government
could label Sudan "a strong partner in the war on terror" and a
state sponsor of terrorism -- in the same US State Department
report.


The 2006 "Country Reports on Terrorism," made public April 30,
lists Sudan along with North Korea, Iran, Syria, and Cuba as
state sponsors of terrorism but singles out Khartoum for taking
"significant steps" to fight extremism.


"The Sudanese government was a strong partner in the war on
terror and aggressively pursued terrorist operations directly
involving threats to US interests and personnel in Sudan," the
report says.


Asked about the apparent discrepancy, White House spokesman Tony
Fratto replied: "Look, the situation in Sudan is complicated."


"We need Sudan to take aggressive action on activity in its
borders that could be supportive of terrorism. We also need Sudan
to, as the president outlined in his speech at the Holocaust
Museum a few weeks ago, to get serious about the situation in
Darfur and the rebel groups in that country," he said.


His comments came as four members of the Senate Intelligence
Committee said that the apparent contradiction, as well as recent
warnings from US President George W. Bush over violence in
Darfur, "raise serious questions about competing policies and
priorities."


The report on Sudan notes that "with the exception of Hamas, the
Sudanese government did not openly support the presence of
extremist elements in Sudan," and that it imposed curbs on
visiting members of that extremist Palestinian group.


"The Sudanese government also worked to disrupt foreign fighters
from using Sudan as a logistics base and transit point for
jihadists going to Iraq," according to the report.


The report also noted "little tangible progress" in Khartoum's
efforts to mediate peace between Uganda and the rebel Lords
Resistance Army.

