

US employers added 88,000 jobs in April, the government said
Friday, a sign of weaker-than-expected economic activity as job
growth slowed to its weakest reading since November 2004.


The unemployment rate ticked up a notch to 4.5 percent, in line
with most analysts' forecasts, from 4.4 percent a month earlier,
the Labor Department said.


The slowdown in nonfarm payroll hiring, seen as one of the best
indicators of economic momentum, was worse than expected. Most
analysts had expected employers to add 100,000 new positions last
month.


Additionally, the job picture for recent months was also
downgraded as the government revised lower its estimate for March
job growth to show 177,000 new jobs were created instead of
180,000 as initially forecast, and for February to 90,000 from
113,000.


The sharp slowdown in job growth was fairly widespread across the
job market, as manfacturing shed 19,000 jobs, and job losses in
the retail sector, especially large stores, amounted to 26,000
posts.


The declines were offset by gains in other industries,
particularly the service sector which boasted job growth of
24,000 new positions last month.


The report comes amid a weakening of other economic gauges and
days before the Federal Reserve meets to review US interest
rates.


The central bank has left its base federal funds rate anchored
firmly at 5.25 percent since June.


The job report also comes after the government said in late April
that growth in the world's biggest economy slowed dramatically to
a 1.3 percent annualized clip during the first quarter.


However, the stock market has been riding a wave of bullish
optimism as share gauges have rocketed with the leading Dow Jones
Industrial Average setting fresh record highs almost daily in
recent weeks.


Friday's report showed average hourly wages rose 0.2 percent in
April to 17.25 dollars, a shade weaker than Wall Street
predictions which had called for a gain of 0.3 percent.


Earnings have risen 3.7 percent in the past year.


The average workweek fell slightly to 33.8 hours in April from
33.9 in the prior month.

