

Nokia Siemens Networks, the Finnish-German telecom networks
manufacturer, said Friday it would cut 9,000 jobs by the end of
2010, or 15 percent of its workforce, including nearly 3,000 jobs
in Germany.


Nokia and Siemens merged their telecoms equipment and network
activities in 2006. At the time, they said they would reduce
their workforce by 10 to 15 percent, which then amounted to
60,000 people.


"Nokia Siemens Networks is confirming today that it expects its
adjustment to remain within that range, at approximately 9,000
employees, subject to required consultations with employee
representatives," the group said in a statement.


Between 2,800 and 2,900 jobs will be cut in Germany out of a
total of 13,000, and some 1,700 out of a workforce of 10,000 in
Finland. The distribution of the remaining cuts was unspecified.


The group has operations in 150 countries, serving 600 customers,
and would have had combined net sales of 17.1 billion euros (23
billion dollars) in 2006, according to company data.


Final figures for cuts in Finland and Germany will be decided
after negotiations with union representatives. The group said
personnel might also be transferred to business partners.


Employee representatives in Germany and Finland did not comment
on the prospective layoffs on Friday.


"Similar processes will take place in other countries over the
next few months," the company said without giving further
details.


"This is a necessary step to build a Nokia Siemens Networks able
to compete now and in the future," Simon Beresford-Wylie, chief
executive officer of Nokia Siemens Networks said.


"I know that the planned actions announced today will be
difficult for some, but it is our responsibility to create a
winning company that can provide strong future opportunities for
employees, adequate returns for our shareholders, and cost-
competitive products, services and solutions for our customers,"
the CEO added.


Nokia Siemens is the world's third-largest telecoms equipment
manufacturer behind Sweden's Ericsson and French-US group
Alcatel-Lucent.


The new company was set to start its operations on January 1 2007
but alleged claims of embezzlement and bribery at Siemens'
equipment unit delayed the process until April 1.


The telecom equipment industry has been consolidated in recent
years following a number of giant international mergers,
including the marriage of Alcatel of France and US-based Lucent
last year and the Nokia-Siemens tie-up.


Alcatel-Lucent in February launched an extensive plan to save
some 1.7 billion euros by the end of 2009, cutting 12,500 jobs
worldwide.


The Nokia share was down by 1.43 percent to 18.65 euros on the
Helsinki stock exchange in midday trading. Siemens was down 1.31
percent to 89.93 euros on the Frankfurt exchange.

