

EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana said he would attempt to
contact Iranian leaders Monday to discuss the fate of 15 British
sailors being held by Iran.


While saying that he is in constant contact with London on the
affair, Solana told reporters in Brussels that he had not yet
been in touch with Iranian leaders on the issue "but will
probably be this afternoon".


"I will try to talk to them and see what the situation is," he
said during a joint press conference with NATO chief Jaap de Hoop
Scheffer.


"Of course the demand of the liberation of the British soldiers
is complete from the European Union," Solana said. All possible
efforts will be made to secure their release, he added.


Iran said on Monday it was interrogating 15 British sailors it
seized last week claiming they had entered its waters illegally,
defying intense international pressure for their release.


Shockwaves from the seizure of the 14 men and one women continued
to reverberate around the world. Their exact whereabouts remain
unknown and British Prime Minister Tony Blair has labelled their
seizure "unjustified and wrong".


De Hoop Scheffer expressed the hope that "the British soldiers
will be released as soon as possible".


With tensions rising in the region over the group's capture and
Iran's disputed nuclear programme, oil prices rose to their
highest levels this year -- well above 62 dollars in Asian trade.


Iran is already at loggerheads with the international community
over its nuclear programme and on Saturday was slapped with
tougher UN Security Council sanctions for failing to halt
sensitive uranium enrichment work.


It announced on Sunday it would limit cooperation with the UN
nuclear watchdog, the International Atomic Energy Agency, in a
first response to the new sanctions.


Solana also said that he hoped soon to resume talks with Iran
over its nuclear program.


He said he had had "some contact" with Iran's top negotiator, Ali
Larijani, and that "we'll try again today".

