

East Timor's President Xanana Gusmao said Monday that he would
soon join a new political party, even as the fledgling
organisation was criticised for a lack of transparency.


Gusmao, who will not be contesting presidential polls next month,
said he would join the National Congress of Reconstruction of
Timor after he ceases to be head of the impoverished former
Portuguese colony.


The new party will have the same initials -- CNRT, based on the
Portuguese version of the name -- as a now disbanded pro-
independence movement active during East Timor's occupation by
Indonesia.


Mari Alkatiri, the Secretary General of Fretilin, East Timor's
biggest political party, said the use of the initials was
"cynical" and "opportunistic" and threatened legal action.


"When more than half of the electorate is illiterate, there is a
moral obligation on all parties to be transparent and unambiguous
in their identity, campaign messages and policy," the former
premier said in a statement.


He said the new party had been given a misleading name to confuse
and deceive voters.


Alkatiri stepped down amid mounting unrest and public pressure in
June 2006.


He was questioned over allegations that he was involved in arming
civilians during bloody violence in May, but the case was dropped
for lack of evidence.


At least 37 people were killed and 150,000 forced to flee during
the unrest, which led to the dispatch of an Australian-led
international peacekeeping force to stabilise the country.


The April 9 presidential poll will be troubled East Timor's first
since it achieved independence in 2002 after 24 years of
Indonesian occupation up to 1999.


Gusmao, who fought Indonesian rule, ran as an independent in a
presidential poll held prior to East Timor's formal independence.

