

US shares fell heavily in late morning trading Monday after a
government report showed an unexpected dive in new home sales to
their lowest level in almost seven years.


Most analysts had been expecting the report to reveal a increase
in new home sales last month, but the Commerce Department said
that sales fell 3.9 percent in February, hitting the lowest level
since June 2000.


Stocks fell quickly in the wake of the report's release.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average was trading down a hefty 91.73
points (0.73 percent) at 12,389.28 at 1531 GMT.


The Nasdaq composite had fallen 14.16 points (0.58 percent) to
2,434.77 while the broad-market Standard and Poor's 500 was 9.19
points (0.64 percent) lower at 1,426.92.


"New home sales were much lower than expected," said Peter
Cardillo, an analyst at Avalon Partners.


"It's weighting on the market because there are fears that the
economy is slowing too much and that it could be negative for
corporate earnings," Cardillo said.


The US economy has slowed markedly in the past year, partly amid
a slump in the housing market, and analysts fear tumbling
property sales could dent consumer spending as homeowners seek to
tighten their belts and in some cases meet higher interest rates.


Other analysts noted that the inventory of unsold homes weighing
on the market had risen last month.


"More troubling was the fact that the inventory of unsold homes
rose to an 8.1 months supply (rate) from 7.3 in January,"
analysts at Briefing.com said in a note to investors.


"Even though the data do not mean that the housing market is
crashing and will pull the overall economy into recession, the
broader perspective shows that housing is still in a correction
and will remain a moderate drag on real GDP for several more
quarters," the analysts cautioned.


Home builder stocks were lower. KB Home was down 1.31 dollars at
45.55 dollars while Pulte Homes was 68 cents lower at 26.88
dollars and Beazer Homes was down 99 cents at 32.17 dollars.


On the banking front, Citigroup was in focus after the Wall
Street Journal reported the global banking giant was close to
announcing 15,000 job cuts and a charge against earnings of over
one billion dollars as part of a restructuring shake up.


Citigroup, which has overhauled up its top management ranks in
recent months, shares were down 42 cents at 51.30 dollars.


Separately, chip leader Intel announced plans to build a 2.5
-billion-dollar plant in fast-growing China.


The plant, to be located in northeast China's Dalian city, will
initially produce less advanced chipsets for computers although
Intel has not ruled out incorporating more advanced technology
into its future plans for the plant.


The integrated wafer plant, called Fab 68, will be the first of
its kind for Intel in Asia.


Intel's shares were down 17 cents at 19.10 dollars.


General Electric's shares meanwhile were 28 cents lower at 35.54
dollars after the Financial Times reported that state-controlled
Saudi Basic Industries Corporation was putting together a bid for
GE's plastics division that could be priced at up to 12 billion
dollars.


Oil prices rocketed higher, further suppressing stocks, amid
Iran-related geopolitical jitters. New York's main oil futures
contract, light sweet crude for delivery in May, was up a strong
88 cents at 63.16 dollars in late morning deals.


Bond prices were higher, with the yield on the 10-year US
Treasury bond falling to 4.567 percent from 4.613 percent Friday
and that on the 30-year bond declining to 4.764 percent from
4.799 percent. Bond yields and prices move in opposite
directions.

