

General Motors Corp. has a non-cash bid on the table to buy the
struggling US division of DaimlerChrysler AG and is considered a
"long-shot candidate" according to a report in the Detroit News
Monday.


The newspaper said GM's January offer was initially rejected but
remains active as other potential buyers prepare to make
proposals this week.


Citing "people familiar with the situation," the News said GM
offered a minority stake of less than 10 percent of GM's stock.
It also asked DaimlerChrysler to pay GM more than one billion
dollars to defray Chrysler's health care costs and to team up
with GM to ask the union for concessions at Chrysler.


The proposal was seen as too low by DaimlerChrysler and it
prompted chief executive officer Dieter Zetsche to announce on
Feb. 14 that "all options" were being explored for Chrysler.


The announcement triggered a rush of interest from private
capital groups and the Canadian auto supplier Magna International
Inc.


Auto analyst Bret Hoselton of KeyBanc Capital Markets said in a
research report Friday that Magna and an unnamed private equity
partner had offered to buy Chrysler for 4.7 billion dollars.


Two major private equity groups -- Cerberus Capital Management
and a joint effort by the Blackstone Group and Centerbridge
Partners -- are expected to make bids this week, the paper said.


But GM, which first discussed a Chrysler deal with Zetsche in
December, remains a contender the paper said.


Rumors of a potential sale of Chrysler, which lost 1.5 billion
dollars in 2006, pushed DaimlerChrysler shares to a six-year high
on Friday. They were trading slightly lower on Monday, down 2.15
percent at 80.59 dollars in morning trade.

