

Iran has resumed paying for construction of the Bushehr nuclear
power plant but has still to catch up after recent shortfalls,
Russia's atomic energy agency said on Monday.


In a statement, the Rosatom agency said the plant's contractor,
Atomstroiexport, had "received the first payment for building of
the Bushehr nuclear power station since the cut in financing."


"Our Iranian partners have overcome the difficulties they had.
This is positive but still far from compensates for the period of
non-payment for the needs of the site," the statement said.


Rosatom spokesman Sergei Novikov told AFP that construction of
the plant had been thrown off course by the non-payments and it
would not be possible to launch the power station in September as
planned.


"Construction of the power station can't be completed by the date
initially planned," Novikov said.


Russia earlier said it had not received payment for work at the
power station in southern Iran since January.


The Bushehr plant is a symbol of the long-standing ties between
Tehran and Moscow.


The United States has urged Russia to stop construction work at
Bushehr due to suspicions about the Islamic republic's nuclear
programme.


Iran says it is purely developing civilian nuclear energy but the
West suspects it of trying to develop nuclear weapons.


Novikov did not say how much had been paid but said it would
ensure the normal functioning of the site for half a month.


He added that 2,000 Russian workers were continuing work at the
site.


The Bushehr project has been plagued by difficulties and subject
to repeated delays.


Despite the two countries' relative closeness, Moscow supported a
United Nations Security Council resolution on Saturday that
slapped new sanctions on Iran in a bid to pressure it into
freezing its uranium enrichment programme.

