

Myanmar's Prime Minister Soe Win is in good health despite being
hospitalised in Singapore, the military-ruled nation's
information minister said Monday.


"We are over-50s or over-60s, so we need regular medical check-
ups," said Kyaw Hsan. "Our prime minister is undergoing a medical
check-up abroad in Singapore, so his health is good."


Soe Win has been in the Singapore General Hospital for more than
a week, according to the Myanmar embassy in the city-state, but
the secretive military government has refused to say exactly why
he is there.


Kyaw Hsan was speaking in the new administrative capital
Naypyidaw, where he held the government's first briefing for
foreign media in the new city.


Soe Win, a lieutenant general, is thought to be aged about 58,
and replaced the disgraced Khin Nyunt as prime minister in
October 2004.


He had risen swiftly in the leadership after allegedly plotting
an attack on the motorcade of opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi
in May 2003.


After the attack she was imprisoned and then placed under house
arrest, where she remains.


The clash between supporters of Aung San Suu Kyi's National
League for Democracy (NLD) and a pro-junta group left up to 80
people dead, according to dissidents. The government said four
people were killed and 50 injured.


Soe Win, a tall and stern man, is considered to be among the
leadership hardliners. His role as prime minister is largely
symbolic, as most power in the government rests with junta leader
Senior General Than Shwe.


Concerns about Than Shwe's health have also risen this year,
after he spent nearly two weeks in January in Singapore in
undergoing medical checks.

