

Europe's main stock markets showed mixed fortunes on Monday ahead
of US housing data and amid news of tie-ups involving the mining
and housebuilding sectors, traders said.


London's FTSE 100 index of leading shares climbed 0.17 percent to
6,350.10 points in late morning deals.


The Paris CAC 40 fell 0.21 percent to 5,622.67 points and in
Frankfurt the DAX 30 was flat at 6,898.44 in early afternoon
trade.


The DJ Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone blue chip shares decreased
0.15 percent to 4,185.47 points.


The euro stood at 1.3270 dollars.


In London, investors digested news of two takeovers. Anglo-Swiss
mining company Xstrata announced it had made a friendly cash bid
worth 4.6 billion Canadian dollars (3.0 billion euros, 4.0 US
dollars) for nickel producer LionOre Mining International.


Meanwhile Taylor Woodrow and George Wimpey said they would merge
to create the biggest British housebuilding group worth about 5.0
billion pounds (7.4 billion euros, 9.8 billion dollars).


On London's second tier FTSE 250 index Taylor Woodrow saw its
share price rocket 16.0 percent to 487.75 pence and George Wimpey
jumped 6.14 percent to 674 pence.


Persimmmon, currently Britain's biggest house builder, gained
4.14 percent to 1,458 pence, topping the FTSE 100.


Taylor Wimpey -- the name of the new group -- would likely join
Persimmon in the leading share index once the merger is complete.


Within the mining sector, Xstrata rose 1.75 percent to 2,623
pence on the FTSE 100.


News of its takeover lifted Xstrata's rivals, with BHP Billiton
up 1.88 percent to 1,140 pence and Rio Tinto climbing 1.77
percent to 2,931 pence.


In Madrid, an announcement of a counter bid for Endesa against
E.ON of Germany by Spanish coompany Acciona and Italian company
Enel, pushed up Endesa shares by 5.8 percent to 40.9 euros.


In earlier Asian trade, Tokyo's benchmark Nikkei-225 index of
leading shares closed up 0.24 percent at 17,521.96 points. Hong
Kong's key Hang Seng Index finished 0.37-percent higher at
19,765.85.


Wall Street shares had ended modestly higher Friday after a
stronger-than- expected report on US home sales eased fears of
economic weakness ahead, offsetting the impact of a jump in oil
prices.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed up 0.16 percent at
12,481.01 points, the tech-heavy Nasdaq composite added 0.18
percent to 2,456.18 points and the broad- market Standard and
Poor's 500 rose 0.11 percent to 1,436.11.

