

Northern Ireland's rival party leaders struck a landmark deal on
Monday to restore self-rule in Belfast on May 8, hailing a "new
era" of politics for the British province.


Democratic Unionist (DUP) leader Ian Paisley and Sinn Fein leader
Gerry Adams agreed to hold "regular" talks between now and then,
they said after their first-ever face-to-face talks hours ahead
of a deadline for a deal.


"In the next few days, detailed work will begin involving all of
the executive parties to follow a programme for government to be
finalised for the start of devolution," said Paisley in a
statement after the talks.


"This will require regular meetings in the next few weeks.


"After a long and difficult time in our province, I believe that
enormous opportunites lie ahead for our province. Devolution has
never been an end in itself but is about making a positive
difference to people's lives.


Adams, sitting a few feet away from Paisley, said in a separate
statement that the accord "marks the beginning of a new era of
politics on this island."


The two towering figures of Northern Irish politics did not shake
hands for the cameras after the meeting, the first ever between
the pair after decades of mutual enmity.


Paisley continued: "I am committed to delivering not only for
those who voted for the DUP but for all the people of Northern
Ireland.


"We must not allow our justified loathing of the horrors and
tragedies of the past to become a barrier to creating a better
and more stable future for our children."


The conservative Protestant DUP, which favours keeping Northern
Ireland as part of the United Kingdom, topped the March 7
elections to the Northern Ireland Assembly.


Socialist Catholics Sinn Fein, the political wing of former
paramilitaries the Irish Republican Army and want the province
integrated into the Republic of Ireland, came second.

