

British Prime Minister Tony Blair hailed a historic power-sharing
accord struck by Northern Ireland's rival two main parties Monday
as "a very important day" for the province.


"This is a very important day for the people of Northern Ireland
but also for the people and the history of these islands," he
said of the deal between Democratic Unionist (DUP) leader Ian
Paisley and Sinn Fein head Gerry Adams.


"Everything we have done over the last 10 years has been a
preparation for this moment," said Blair, who has been battling
to strike an accord over Northern Ireland before leaving office
by September.


He was speaking after Paisley and Adams agreed to restore power-
sharing in Northern Ireland -- suspended since 2002 -- on May 8,
after their first face-to- face talks.


Blair said that the "people of Northern Ireland have spoken"
through elections held on March 7.


"They have said we want peace and power-sharing and the political
leadership has then come in behind that and said we will deliver
what people want," he said at Downing Street.


The conservative Protestant DUP, which favours keeping Northern
Ireland as part of the United Kingdom, topped the March 7
elections to the Northern Ireland Assembly.


Socialist Catholics Sinn Fein, the political wing of former
paramilitaries the Irish Republican Army who want the province
integrated into the Republic of Ireland, came second.


The Northern Ireland Assembly was created by the 1998 Good Friday
peace agreement that largely brought an end to three decades of
sectarian violence in the province.


It has been suspended since October 2002 when allegations
surfaced of a republican spy-ring operating at the assembly
buildings, and Northern Ireland has been governed directly from
London ever since.


Blair and Ahern revived prospects for power-sharing in the
troubled province with the so-called St. Andrews Agreement in
November last year, named for the Scottish city where the
negotiations took place.

