

The Mediterranean food diet, which is rich in fish,
monounsaturated fats and other sources of omega-3 fatty acids, is
good for people suffering from heart disease, according to a new
study.


"There has been a lot of interest in the Mediterranean diet
because epidemiological studies have shown that it is associated
with lower rates of cardiovascular disease," said Doctor
Katherine Tuttle, medical and scientific director for Providence
Medical Research Center at the Sacred Heart Medical Center in
Spokane, Washington, which led the study.


Tuttle and her colleagues recruited 101 patients who had had a
heart attack within the previous six weeks to participate in the
trials and divided them into two groups: the first followed the
AHA Step II diet and the second a Mediterranean-style diet.


The Step II diet is a low-fat diet recommended by the American
Heart Association.


Patients in both groups were advised to limit cholesterol intake
to no more than 200 milligrams daily and saturated fat intake to
no more than seven percent of calories.


After an average of nearly four years, there was no difference
between the two groups in the combined rates of death, repeat
heart attack, unstable chest pain, stroke or hospitalization for
heart failure, the researchers have found.


When the two groups of patients were combined and compared to a
matched "usual care" group of 101 patients who did not receive
intensive dietary counseling after heart attack, the relative
risk of cardiovascular complications was reduced by two-thirds in
the dietary intervention groups, the study said.


"Our study shows that, in addition to excellent medical care,
dietary intervention truly benefits patients," Tuttle said.

