

Serbian President Boris Tadic said Monday he "strongly disagreed"
with the United States' support for UN envoy Martti Ahtisaari's
recommendation to grant Kosovo independence.


"Any form of independence for Kosovo is unacceptable for Serbia,"
Tadic said in a statement after a telephone conversation with US
Undersecretary of State Nicholas Burns.


Tadic said Belgrade was ready to "contructively engage" in more
talks on the future status of Kosovo, a southern Serbian province
with an ethnic Albanian majority.


"I am convinced that there is room for further dialogue and that
the special envoy ... Martti Ahtisaari did not exhaust all
possibilities for an agreement," said Tadic.


Speaking to reporters in Brussels earlier Monday, Burns said
Washington supported Ahtisaari's proposal to give surpervised
independence to Kosovo.


"We are going to issue today a declaration that says we fully
support Martti Ahtisaari's proposal," Burns said. "The US does
support the proposal by Ahtisaari to offer independence under
supervision."


Kosovo has been administered by the United Nations since
mid-1999, when a NATO bombing campaign helped to halt a brutal
crackdown by Serb forces on ethnic Albanians.


Ahtisaari made the recommendation at the end of 13 months of
mostly fruitless talks between Kosovo Albanian and Serbian
representatives.


In the negotiations, Pristina sought nothing less than
independence, a demand rejected by Belgrade, which instead
offered Kosovo Albanians broad autonomy.


The UN Security Council is expected to debate the Ahtisaari plan
next month.

