

Racism in Russia reached a new peak last year with far right
groups carrying out more brazen attacks and the state organising
a crackdown on ethnic Georgians, a human rights group said
Monday.


In its annual report the respected monitoring centre Sova said
that far right skinhead groups were no longer operating in the
shadows.


"In place of knuckle-dusters, knives and fists, skinheads are
switching to guns and bombs," said researcher Galina
Kozhevnikova.


"We are seeing crimes of a demonstrative character, not committed
under cover of darkness in back courtyards but in the presence of
cameras and crowds, with the intention of creating an effect,"
she told reporters.


Far right extremists were diversifying outside Moscow and had
organized coordinated rallies across Russia, she added.


In particular, she referred to the break-up by skinheads of a gay
rights march last May and a racially motivated bomb attack on a
Moscow market in August that left 11 people dead.


By a conservative estimate, the number of victims of racist
attacks last year rose by 17 percent to 539, of whom 54 people
died, the report said.


Sova also took aim at President Vladimir Putin's government over
an anti- Georgian crackdown during a diplomatic spat last year
and campaigns to restrict foreigners from working in markets.


"For the first time we've seen an officially sanctioned
discriminatory campaign, which we witnessed against Georgians
last autumn," said Kozhevnikova.


"Television and part of the print media immediately began to
participate in what in essence was racist propaganda," the report
said.


"One can talk about an attempt by the authorities to seize the
'nationalist initiative' not only in the form of slogans but
their methods of work," the report continued.


Foreign governments have voiced growing concern at a rising tide
of racist attacks in Russia, many of the attacks being on
foreigners, typically students in Moscow, Saint Petersburg and
elsewhere.

