

Sales of new US homes fell 3.9 percent in February, hitting the
lowest level since June 2000, the Commerce Department said
Monday.


The report showed an annualized rate of 848,000 new homes sold
last month, well below the average Wall Street estimate of
995,000 properties and suggesting the woes are not yet over for
the ailing US real estate market.


New home sales have fallen 18.3 percent since February 2006, when
the pace was 1.038 million units and the US property market still
had some sizzle.


The agency also revised down its estimate for January sales to an
even weaker level than originally reported a month ago. It said
the pace was 882,000 instead of 937,000 units.


The median price of a newly sold home was 250,000 dollars last
month, up from the January figure of 243,200 dollars but down 0.3
percent from a year earlier.


The inventory of new homes on the market in February rose 1.5 pct
to 546,000 units from January's inventory of 538,000 units.


If the rate of sales stays at levels seen in February, the supply
of new homes on the market would take 8.1 months to sell, up
sharply from January's rate of 7.3 months and the highest monthly
supply in 16 years.


The country's housing market entered a national downturn last
year following several years of rapid growth which triggered a
speculative frenzy in some markets including Florida and Nevada.


Sales slowed over the past year amid interest rate hikes and
surging oil prices, although US interest rates have remained
steady since August and oil prices have cooled from highs struck
last summer.

