

The European Commission has given US software giant Microsoft
three extra weeks to explain why it has failed to comply with an
EU anti-trust ruling from 2004, a spokesman said Monday.


The Commission, the EU's top competition regulator, had
originally given Microsoft until April 3 to respond in the case,
over abuse of dominant market position, but it now has until
April 23, he said.


On March 1, the Commission threatened Microsoft with new daily
fines because it judged that the company was selling licenses for
Windows software protocols for work-group server operating
systems at too high a price.


"They asked for an extension until the end of May because of the
complexity of the question," said the spokesman for EU
competition affairs, Jonathan Todd.


In 2004, the Commission fined the US company a record 497 million
euros (657 million dollars) for abuse of its dominant market
position through its Windows operating system.


It also ordered the Microsoft to sell a version of Windows
without Media Player software and to divulge the software
protocols underpinning Windows for makers of rival products.


Microsoft challenged the 2004 ruling in the EU's second-highest
court last April and the judges are expected to hand down a
decision in the first half of this year.


Frustrated with this defiance, the Commission last July slapped
daily fines adding up to 280.5 million euros over the six-month
period of the penalty for failing to fully respect the antitrust
ruling.


Microsoft has paid that fine but is appealing against the
charges.

