

Anti-terror police in Indonesia have found more explosives after
following leads from captured suspected militants thought to
belong to an Al-Qaeda-linked terror group, officials said Monday.


Some 12.5 kilograms (27.5 pounds) of TNT, 14 kilograms of other
explosives and 20 detonators were found in a house in the
country's second-largest city of Surabaya, police spokesman Sisno
Adiwinoto said.


The find also included 101 books on jihad, and occurred after a
man was arrested in the city on Monday, he said. The identity of
the suspect was unclear, with Adiwinoto saying he was 25-year-old
Ahmad Sachrul Manan, while state media reports said he was Ahmad
Choirul Umam.


The reports quoted regional police chief Herry Dahana as saying
the discovery followed the questioning of suspected militants
from regional terror group Jemaah Islamiyah (JI).


The suspected militants were held last Tuesday after one man was
shot dead, one injured and several arrested in an anti-terror
raid in the central city of Yogyakarta on Indonesia's main island
of Java.


The police said information gleaned from the arrests led to the
discovery of hundreds of kilograms of explosives, grenades and
thousands of ammunition rounds the next day.


Indonesia, the world's most populous Muslim-majority nation, has
suffered a number of terror attacks blamed on JI and other
suspected Islamic militants it is trying to capture.


JI has been blamed for bombings on the resort island of Bali in
2002 and 2005, which together killed more than 200 people.


Apart from the Bali bombings, JI has been accused of roles in the
August 2003 Marriott Hotel and September 2004 Australian embassy
attacks in Jakarta.


The United States says the group aims to establish a pan-Islamic
state in Southeast Asia through violent jihad.

