

British hedge fund manager TCI said on Monday that it would take
legal action against Dutch bank ABN Amro if it did not talk to
potential buyers other than current suitor Barclays of Britain.


The Economist magazine had reported that TCI chief executive
Chris Hohn had said that he would sue ABN chairman Arthur
Martinez if the bank did not attempt to maximise the price of any
sale by exploring opportunities with other potential buyers.


The business magazine also reported that The Children's
Investment Fund (TCI) had roughly doubled its ABN stake to more
than 2.0 percent.


"The Economist magazine article is accurate," the spokesman for
TCI told AFP, but declined to comment further.


ABN entered merger talks with British bank Barclays last week,
less than a month after TCI and fellow activist investor
Toscafund had urged the Dutch bank to put itself up for sale or
dispose of big parts of its business.


TCI wants to return more cash to shareholders and revitalise
ABN's flagging share price.


However, Barclays is attempting to create a vast global giant
with complementary banking interests around the world.


A tie-up with ABN would create a huge banking titan with a market
capitalisation of approximately 162 billion dollars (123 billion
euros).


There has been market speculation that a range of European banks
would be interested in tabling counterbids for all or part of
ABN, including Royal Bank of Scotland, Banco Santander Central
Hispano, Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria and BNP Paribas.


Barclays and ABN also announced last week that the combined group
would have its primary listing in London, but would be
headquartered in Amsterdam.


The British group would appoint its chief executive, while the
chairmanship would be decided by ABN.

