

Fifteen British navy personnel seized by Iran last week are
currently being interrogated and will have to answer to
allegations they violated Iranian waters, an Iranian official
said on Monday.


"The case of the Britons who violated Iranian territorial waters
is following the due legal process and they must answer for their
violation," deputy foreign minister Mehdi Mostafavi said, state
television reported.


The eight sailors and seven marines have not yet been allowed to
meet British representatives in Tehran despite a call by British
Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett to her Iranian counterpart
Manouchehr Mottaki.


Mostafavi's comments came as Iraq's Foreign Minister Hoshyar
Zebari said in a statement issued in Baghdad that the Britons
were detained while operating in Iraqi waters as London has
already claimed.


The 15 were seized on Friday in the Shatt al-Arab waterway in the
northern Gulf that divides Iraq and Iran.


"The British sailors are currently being interrogated and must
clarify whether they entered Iranian waters deliberately or by
mistake," the Iranian official said.


"When it becomes clear, a decision will be made," he added.


Mostafavi denied reports that Iran wanted to exchange the British
sailors with Iranians seized by US forces in the northern Iraqi
city of Arbil in January.


Britain's ambassador to Tehran, Geoffrey Adams, met a senior
Iranian foreign ministry official on Sunday seeking a meeting
with the detained service personnel, 14 men and one woman.


He was seeking another meeting with Iranian officials on Monday,
the British embassy said.

