

Pakistan said Monday that the taking-up of arms by local
tribesmen against foreign militants along the Afghan border was
the result of a "successful strategy" that includes controversial
peace deals.


Uzbek and Chechen insurgents fought four days of battles with
Taliban- sympathising local tribes last week in the South
Waziristan tribal zone, leaving up to 160 people dead, according
to officials.


Pakistan signed peace deals with local pro-Taliban tribes in
South Waziristan in 2005 and North Waziristan in 2006, prompting
concerns from NATO, US and Afghan officials and claims that
attacks have since risen across the border.


Foreign ministry spokeswoman Tasnim Aslam said last week's
clashes, the first time tribesmen have tried to drive out
foreigners, "shows the success of the strategy that government of
Pakistan has adopted."


"We have seen that in the last few days, the local tribals have
taken on the foreigners who are coming from across the border and
creating problems for Pakistan, creating problems for the people
of the area," she said.


"If anyone has any doubt about the success of this deal, it
should be obvious to them now."


Tribal sources said the tribesmen and foreign militants, who came
to Pakistani tribal areas after the Taliban were ousted from
power in Afghanistan in late 2001 by the US-led military, agreed
on a fragile truce on Friday.


Fierce fighting broke out on March 19 after ex-Taliban commander
Mullah Nazir, whom the government says has come over to its side,
ordered followers of Uzbek militant Tahir Yuldashev to disarm.


The battles killed 130 Uzbek and Chechen militants and between 25
to 30 tribesmen, the governor of North West Frontier Province
said Friday.


The United States and other Western allies have repeatedly urged
Pakistan to crack down on Islamic extremists in the mountainous
tribal belt, saying that Al- Qaeda and the Taliban were
regrouping and building training camps there.

