

UEFA said on Monday that it was ready to give clubs, players and
national leagues a greater say on key problems affecting European
football for the first time.


UEFA's Executive Committee, headed by new president Michel
Platini, decided to recommend the formation of a new 16 person
Strategic Council including four representatives each from
European clubs, players and leagues, governing body spokesman
William Gaillard said.


It will also incorporate UEFA's four vice presidents, from
England, Germany, Spain and Turkey.


Gaillard said the statute change needed to set up the council
will be submitted for a final decision by member associations at
UEFA's extraordinary congress on May 28.


"Clubs, leagues and players will be integrated in UEFA's statutes
for the first time," he told journalists, adding that the step
was regarded as "revolutionary."


One of the largely advisory council's tasks will be to come up
with possible solutions to issues such as football violence,
Gaillard said.


"Its role is to smooth out the problems that might exist in the
professional game thanks to cooperation between all the families
in football," he explained.


The issue of official club representation within UEFA has long
been controversial, and football chiefs have often clashed with
the G14 lobby group of 18 top European clubs.


Club representatives will come from the more extensive European
Club Forum, UEFA said, while the players were likely to be
appointed by European members of international professional
players' association, FIFPro.

