

Leading US post-modern dance choreographer Lucinda Childs is to
revisit Bach in performances beginning in Paris this week, the
latest in a string of classically-based choreographies in the
last 15 years.


"Music directs me," the 66-year-old told AFP before heading for
the eastern French city of Strasbourg where music-lovers hailed
her direction and choreography of two dance and operatic works by
Igor Stravinsky, Oedipus Rex and the Nightingale.


"I had to find common ground, not singers on the one hand and
dancers on the other," she said.


Once better known for abstract minmalist performances on
contemporary scores by Philip Glass or John Adams, Childs from
March 28 choreographs six performances of Bach's "St John
Passion", directed by Robert Wilson, at Paris' Chatelet Theatre.


Childs began her career in 1963 as a member of New York's avant-
garde Judson Church, where visually abstract and often improvised
performances had no musical backing.


"It was quite a unique laboratory, involving film-makers, poets,
dancers, painters. We experimented with ideas and the philosophy
of (composer) John Cage and (choreographer) Merce Cunningham,"
Childs said.


In 1973, faced with "the need to find a simple path" outside the
Judson Dance Theatre, she set up her own company and with
minimalist composer Philip Glass staged "Einstein on the Beach".


Three years later she produced probably her best-known work,
"Dance" with music by Philip Glass.


From 1992 Childs worked increasingly regularly with opera,
notably choreographing Strauss' "Salome" and Verdi's "Macbeth".


But in 1995 she went a step further by directing her first
musical production, Mozart's "Zaide".


Childs, who studied piano as a child and can read a score,
underlines the importance of the libretto but says the music
dominates. "I'm always synchronised with the conductor," she
said.


And she continues to subscribe to minimalism. "I always seek a
maximum of clarity," she said.

