

Anglo-Swiss mining company Xstrata has made a friendly cash bid
worth 4.6 billion Canadian dollars for nickel producer LionOre
Mining International, the groups said in a joint statement on
Monday.


The offer for the Canadian group, worth 4.0 billion US dollars or
3.0 billion euros, comes as the price of nickel strikes record
high points.


"Xstrata and LionOre Mining International Ltd announced today
that they have entered into a support agreement for an all-cash
offer to acquire all of the issued and outstanding shares of
LionOre by way of a friendly takeover bid," the statement said.


Xstrata chief executive Mick Davis would not be drawn on
potential synergies, but said in a conference call following the
announcement that the deal would be "value accretive" for the
combined group.


The offer is for 18.50 Canadian dollars per share, which
represented a 5.8-percent premium over the closing price of 17.49
Canadian dollars per LionOre share on the Toronto Stock Exchange
last Friday.


On Monday in London a tonne of nickel, for delivery in three
months, was being traded at 41,950 dollars. Earlier in March it
struck an all-time high of 48,500 dollars a tonne.


Nickel is benefiting from strong demand for stainless steel, low
inventories, as well as supply disruptions and delays.


At an international conference on nickel in Noumea, New
Caledonia, Macquarie bank analyst Jim Lennon said on Monday that
the price of nickel, having tripled in the last year, would
settle down in 2010-2011 when new factories began production.


But Chinese demand would far exceed expectations. China now
consumed 260,000 tonnes per year or about 20 percent of world
output. The price per pound in London last week was 21.59
dollars. Lennon said that a price of 5.5-6.0 dollars per pound
seemed a reasonable supposition for the long term.


In London trade on Monday, the share price of Xstrata jumped 1.94
percent to 2,628 pence. At the half-way stage London's FTSE 100
index of leading shares, on which Xstrata is traded, was up 0.24
percent at 6,354.80 points.


In Paris, the price of shares in nickel miner Eramet, which has
interests in New Caledonia, rose by 4.09 percent to 151.01 euros
after the announcement by Xstrata and LionOre Mining
International.

