

France's new interior minister Francois Baroin is a high-flying
protege of President Jacques Chirac who had his first cabinet
post at the age of just 30.


Now aged 41, Baroin has been overseas territories minister since
2005 -- notably handling the outbreak of the mosquito-borne
disease chikungunya on the Indian ocean island of Reunion.


Born in 1965, Baroin is the son of Michel Baroin, a senior civil
servant and president of the media chain FNAC who died in a plane
crash in Africa in 1987.


The elder Baroin was a close friend of Chirac, and on his death
the future president took the son under his political wing.


Baroin was Chirac's campaign spokesman in the 1995 presidential
election and after his victory took a junior post in the new
government -- becoming the youngest minister since World War II.


While remaining loyal to Chirac, he has also maintained links
with the president's long-standing rival, Nicolas Sarkozy, who
handed over the interior ministry post Monday to concentrate on
his presidential election bid.


"In politics there are two choices: either you put oil on the
cogs or you put oil on the fire. It's my nature to oil the cogs,"
Baroin said recently.


A divorced father of three, Baroin was recently linked
romantically with television journalist Marie Drucker -- who as a
result had to suspend her job on an evening news show until after
the presidential election.


Baroin's fresh-faced looks and round glasses have earned him the
nickname of "Harry Potter", but colleagues say he is a consummate
political operator. According to a profile in Les Echos
newspaper, he is a fan of techno music.


His first job as interior minister will be to organise the
elections on April 22 and May 6, on the results of which his
future tenure at the ministry will depend.

