

Embattled Zimbabwe will fall 1.3 million tonnes short of its food
needs this year, the main opposition warned Monday, as government
said crops in one region has been written off.


The southern African country requires two million tonnes of the
staple corn grain but production this year is predicted at
700,000 tonnes, said the Movement for Democratic Change (MDC)
secretary for agriculture Renson Gasela.


"This gives a shortfall of 1.3 million tonnes," Gasela added in a
statement.


The government has meantime said drought "is so severe that there
has been 95 percent crop failure" in western Matabeleland South
province, according to a report cited by the state-run daily The
Herald.


"By March next next year, the food shortage and starvation will
be at its worst," said Gasela.


Last week Agriculture Minister Rugare Gumbo told state television
that government had officially declared 2007 a drought year to
allow it to take emergency measures to avert starvation.


The measures could include releasing funds to import food and
possibly appeal for external aid. But there has been no appeal
yet.


Finance Minister Simbarashe Mumbengegwi had earlier told
parliament that the country was planning to import about 400,000
tonnes of maize to make up for a possible food shortfall.


Gasela asked foreign donors to "come forward and save the lives
of many innocent people from certain death at the hands of this
uncaring government."


Gumbo said the worst-hit provinces are Matebeleland in the west,
Masvingo in the south and Lower Midlands in the centre of the
country.


The country is already saddled with economic crisis characterised
by a four- digit rate of inflation, unemployment of around 80
percent and chronic shortages of basic foodstuffs like cooking
oil, sugar, fuel and foreign currency.


Poor families often resort to skipping meals.

