

North Korea Monday condemned a US-South Korean military exercise
this week as an attempt to halt progress made on nuclear
disarmament talks regarding the communist nation.


Rodong Sinmun, the North's powerful ruling communist party
newspaper, described the week-long US-South Korean war games
which began Sunday as "a criminal artifice to ... check the
progress of the six-party talks and the implementation of the
agreed articles."


The paper fell short of following Sunday's warning by Pyongyang's
state newspaper Minju Joson that the drills "may entail such
serious consequences as ... scuttling the six-party talks" on
North Korea.


Last week's round of six-party talks in Beijing ended abruptly
when Pyongyang refused to negotiate further until it received 25
million dollars of its funds frozen in a Macau bank -- due to
accusations of money laundering -- that the US had agreed to
release.


The US-South Korean war games, called RSOI (Reception, Staging,
Onward Movement and Integration) and Foal Eagle, began across
South Korea Sunday. The allies say the exercise is purely
defensive.


But the North's official Korean Central News Agency said in a
separate dispatch late Monday the drills could spark a war.


"Due to this reckless play with fire, the situation on the
peninsula remains so tense that a war may break out there any
moment," the KCNA said.


The exercise focuses on a mock battle aimed at preparing for the
sudden arrival of US reinforcements. It also features anti-
commando operations and computer war games.


As part of the exercise, the USS Ronald Reagan, a cruiser and two
destroyers have joined tens of thousands of US and South Korean
soldiers.

