

Southern African leaders will gather in Tanzania this week for an
extraordinary two-day meeting to discuss the political situation
in the region, including Zimbabwe, a top Tanzanian official said
Monday.


"SADC leaders will be meeting in Dar es Salaam for an
extraordinary meeting on March 28 and 29 to deliberate on the
political situation in the region including problems in
Zimbabwe," a top foreign ministry official, asking not to be
named, told AFP.


The summit will replace a meeting of foreign ministers from the
three SADC countries charged with dealing with Zimbabwe --
Tanzania, Namibia and Lesotho -- which was due to take place in
Dar es Salaam on March 26 and 27.


"There have been so many events and comments (on Zimbabwe) since
last week, so the situation has changed," the foreign ministry
official said.


Pressure has mounted on Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe after
police on March 11 crushed an opposition Movement for Democratic
Change (MDC) rally in Harare and arrested its leader Morgan
Tsvangirai and other opposition activists for defying a police
ban.


Police bludgeoned Tsvangirai and several of his supporters while
in custody. They have also prevented opposition activists from
leaving the country.


There has been stiff international condemnation of the police
action which critics said was a dramatic escalation of Mugabe's
crackdown on the opposition.


The 14-nation Southern African Development Community (SADC) is a
regional bloc promoting development and democracy in the region.


The Tanzanian foreign ministry confirmed the meeting in a
statement and said it would be chaired by the country's President
Jakaya Kikwete.


It did not mention Zimbabwe but said the summit was expected to
come out with a joint statement on the way forward on the
political and security situation in the SADC region.

