

China has named new Communist Party bosses for two provinces,
state media said Monday, in the latest sign that a reshuffling of
top personnel has started ahead of a key political meeting.


Li Jianguo was appointed party secretary for the prosperous
eastern province of Shandong, replacing Zhang Gaoli, who had
earlier been named party secretary of the northern port city of
Tianjin, Xinhua news agency reported.


Meanwhile, Qiang Wei was appointed party secretary in Qinghai, a
poor northwestern province where the party has been known to send
up-and-coming leaders to prove themselves.


He replaces Zhao Leji, who was appointed party boss of coal-rich
Shaanxi province.


The 68-million-member Communist Party is scheduled this fall to
hold its 17th Congress, the most important gathering of its kind
in five years.


The run-up to party congresses often sees sweeping second-tier
personnel changes as part of complex maneuvering to move proteges
and supporters into positions of influence for the coming five-
year period.


In the appointment attracting the most attention, 53-year-old Xi
Jinping, widely recognised as a rising political star, was named
Shanghai's new party chief, Xinhua reported on Sunday.


The post was made vacant by the downfall of Chen Liangyu, who was
fired and arrested in September for his alleged role in the
city's biggest-ever corruption case, involving the pilfering of
municipal retirement funds.


Speculation over who would be appointed to lead China's key
commercial centre had been building for months.


Xi was previously party boss of the prosperous eastern province
of Zhejiang.

