

Any defence missile shield set up to intercept warheads from
"rogue states" like Iran should cover all NATO nations, the
military alliance's secretary general said Monday.


Jaap de Hoop Scheffer told reporters in Brussels that the debate
over US plans to set up a missile defence system, including
installations in Poland and the Czech Republic, should be
"NATOised".


"Since the US system, if it will come about, will not cover all
alliance territory ... at the end of the day I hope there is an
agreement on the perception that there is coverage of all NATO
territory," he said during a joint press conference with EU
foreign policy chief Javier Solana.


"I think there are all kinds of reasons to NATOise this debate
... in other words bring it into NATO," Scheffer said, adding,
"without of course interfering with what are discussions between
our American and Polish and our American and Czech friends."


He said that the process of further NATO involvement should begin
with a reinforced meeting of the North Atlantic Council with
missile defence experts from the 26 member states.


The second track, because "we should do this in transparency with
our Russian friends," would be a reinforced meeting of the NATO-
Russian council.


Czech Deputy Prime Minister Martin Bursik said Sunday that a US
anti-missile radar proposed for installation in the country
should eventually be made part of NATO's common defence.


But Russia sees plans to base 10 missile interceptors in Poland,
a radar in the Czech Republic, and another in the Caucasus, as
intimidation and has warned its old Cold War enemy that it would
come up with a "highly effective response."


Parts of the shield are already in place in the United States,
Britain and Greenland, and Pentagon officials say the plan is to
have the system operational by 2013.

