

US tycoon Stan Kroenke could be in talks with ITV about buying
the British broadcaster's 9.9-percent stake in English
Premiership football club Arsenal, a report said Monday.


The Guardian newspaper said that ITV was believed to have been
approached by Kroenke, who owns several sports franchises in the
United States, including soccer side Colorado Rapids, basketball
team Denver Nugge ts and ice hockey side Colorado Avalanche.


Arsenal have signed a partnership with Colorado Rapids to extend
the English club's brand to the United States, and as part of
Gunners manager Arsene Wenger's policy of searching the globe for
player talent.


Premiership sides Manchester United, Aston Villa and, most
recently, Liverpool, are now all in American hands.


Kroenke's fortune, made in property, is estimated by US magazine
Forbes' 2007 rich list at 2.1 billion dollars (1.6 billion
euros).


Arsenal shares hit a record high Friday amid the takeover
rumours. Arsenal Holdings PLC shares closed at a record high of
6,550 pounds (12,863 dollars, 9,688 euros).


It pushed the value of the club on the secondary Ofex stock
exchange up to 404 million pounds (793 million dollars, 598
million euros).


The Gunners were the only one of four English sides in the
Champions League this season not to be under foreign ownership.


Shares in the north London club have soared in weeks, sparked by
news mid-March that the biggest single shareholder, non-executive
director Danny Fiszman, has reduced his holding to 24.11 percent
-- just less than the 25 percent needed to maintain a veto on any
changes to the club's statutes.

