

The Maldives' most prominent political dissident was arrested
during a protest over a man's alleged death in police custody,
the government said Monday.


Mohamed Nasheed, head of the Maldivian Democratic Party (MDP),
was arrested Sunday while demonstrating outside a cemetery in the
capital island Male, the government said in an emailed statement.


The statement did not say on what charges Nasheed was held, but
his party said he had been beaten by police.


"Nasheed was singled out in the crowd of those at the cemetery,
beaten with batons by the police, and is currently in police
custody," the MDP said. "The MDP fears that he is not receiving
medical treatment for his injuries."


The MDP said protestors had gathered to highlight the case of a
man who died in police custody. The police said the man was found
dead and that he had several drug-related charges against him.


Nasheed has been leading a campaign to oust Maldivian President
Maumoon Abdul Gayoom, who was originally elected in 1978 and is
currently Asia's longest- serving president.


Nasheed ended a self-imposed exile in Britain and travelled to
the Indian Ocean archipelago in 2005 to demand political reforms,
but was arrested immediately after his return.


His release followed the pardon of another top MDP figure,
Jennifer Latheef, in August 2006. Latheef was serving a 10-year
sentence on terrorism charges linked to a 2003 pro-democracy
riot.


Political parties were allowed for the first time in June 2005 in
line with reforms announced by Gayoom.


The Maldives, home to around 300,000 Sunni Muslims, is yet to
hold multi-party elections and Gayoom's opponents have accused
him of clinging to power in one of Asia's most exotic tourist
destinations.

