

The "chaos" caused by the destruction of the central authority in
the Palestinian territories is a key factor behind the kidnapping
of BBC Gaza correspondent Alan Johnston, a Palestinian
spokeswoman said Monday.


Scores of Brussels-based journalists turned out for a rally
calling for the release of Johnston, exactly five weeks after he
was snatched at gunpoint as he returned to his Gaza City home
from his office.


"We have been witnessing the destruction of the central authority
of Palestine in recent years and the result is chaos,"
Palestinian representative in Brussels Leila Shahid said at the
rally.


"This is a situation which, like Iraq, is a situation of
occupation and absence of central authority and the destruction
of all the means of the Palestinian Authority, to practice its
responsibility to ensure the security of the very honourable
profession" of journalism, she added.


For that responsibility to be adequately carried out "we need our
sovereignty," she said, adding that the Palestinian Authority was
nonetheless doing its best to secure Johnston's release.


European Commission vice-president Margot Wallstrom, also
attending the rally, expressed Brussels' "solidarity" with
Johnston and his family, friends and colleagues, calling for his
immediate release.


She said that 155 journalists had been killed around the world
last year "because they were trying to do their job and this is
unacceptable".


Thousands of BBC staff across Britain on Monday also held a vigil
to remember Johnston after a Palestinian group said it had killed
him.

