

A member of a German left-wing feminist guerrilla group was
handed a suspended two-year prison sentence on Monday for her
role in two failed bombings 20 years ago.


Adrienne Gerhaeuser, 58, had admitted that she "knowingly and
willingly" attempted to bomb the Berlin Genetic Technical
Institute in 1986 and a clothing factory in Bavaria in 1987 on
behalf of the Rote Zora movement.


Gerhaeuser, a photographer, handed herself over to the police
late last year after two decades on the run.


She told the Berlin court that the attacks were motivated by her
political beliefs at the time, including a fierce opposition to
genetic engineering and solidarity with striking female factory
workers in South Korea.


Gerhaeuser said she had provided alarm clocks for two bomb
detonators. But in both cases the devices failed to go off and no
one was injured.


The sentence was widely expected. The Berlin court had said that
because Gerhaeuser had turned herself in, this was the maximum
penalty she could expect.


Rote Zora was a women's splinter group that broke away from the
so-called Revolutionary Cells network in 1986.


It claimed responsibility for 45 bombings and cases of arson
between April 1977 and February 1988 with the aim of bringing
about radical change in German society, but tried to avoid
casualties.


The far-left's violent campaign against the West German state and
elite in the 1970s and 1980s has been mulled over in recent
months as two former guerrillas from the Red Army Faction, also
known as the Baader-Meinhof Gang, sought release from prison.


Brigitte Mohnhaupt, who was convicted for her role in nine
murders in the group's bloody class war in the 1970s, was freed
last month after serving 24 years in jail.


But a court in February refused prison day releases for Christian
Klar who led the RAF along with Mohnhaupt.


The families of the victims of the RAF have bitterly opposed the
release of both.

