

Tata Consultancy Services Monday said fourth quarter net profit
soared nearly 44 percent from a year earlier as firms abroad
outsourced more office and software work to India.


Tata Consultancy Services, or TCS, said net profit for the three
months to March rose to 11.95 billion rupees (272 million
dollars) from 8.32 billion rupees in the year-earlier period,
according to a notice on the Mumbai stock exchange website.


Income in the fourth quarter rose 40 percent to 52.67 billion
rupees.


For the full year, TCS net profit gained 42 percent to 42.13
billion rupees on income of 189.1 billion rupees, up 41 percent
from the year earlier.


Tata Consultancy shares rose 17.45 rupees or 1.38 percent to
1,280.1 on Monday while the benchmark Mumbai stock exchange
Sensex index ended up 311.50 points or 2.33 percent to 13,695.58.


TCS said it added 218 new clients in the past year, including 43
in the last quarter.


"Our emerging hi-growth services are giving us a superior revenue
quality and diversified customer base across markets," said S.
Ramadorai, chief executive and managing director of TCS.


"We are confident of continuing sustained, profitable growth," he
added.


TCS won 12 deals of over 50 million dollars in the year,
officials said.


The company disclosed that it plans to set up a new development
centre in Morocco, while boosting finance operations in Brazil,
Mexico and China.


TCS is part of India's diversified Tata group and employs more
than 83,500 people from 60 different nationalities. The Mumbai-
based firm earns nearly half of its revenues from banking and
financial services in an industry that relies on India's cheap
but skilled English-speaking workforce.


The rest of its revenues come from manufacturers and
telecommunications customers.


TCS listed on Indian exchanges in August 2004 after raising 1.2
billion dollars.

