

Israeli Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni on Monday urged Arab states
to engage the Jewish state in peace talks, ahead of an Arab
League meeting of foreign ministers in Cairo.


"Just as Israel is giving the Palestinians a diplomatic horizon,
the Arab states can give Israel a diplomatic horizon now instead
of waiting for the end of the conflict," Livni's office quoted
her as telling China's envoy to the Middle East, Sun Bigan.


Livni also called on Arab states to support moderate Palestinians
in a bid to reach a peace deal with the Jewish state.


"The Arab world will have to strengthen moderate Palestinians at
the crucial moments and necessary compromises" in future peace
talks, she said.


"There is no intention for the Arab states to replace the
bilateral Israeli- Palestinian track, but they certainly can and
should support it," she said.


Prime Minister Ehud Olmert said on Sunday that Israel was ready
for talk with Arab nations over their peace plan which was
revived at a summit in Riyadh last month.


The blueprint offers the Jewish state peace and normal ties in
exchange for Israel's withdrawal from Arab land occupied during
the 1967 Six Day War, the creation of a Palestinian state, and a
return of Palestinian refugees.


Peace talks between Israel and the Palestinians have largely been
stalled for six years.


Israel refuses to hold talks with the Palestinian government,
where the radical Hamas movement is a senior coalition partner,
and restricts talks with moderate president Mahmud Abbas mostly
to security and humanitarian issues.


Twelve Arab foreign ministers are to gather on Wednesday in Cairo
where the Arab League has its headquarters to discuss the revived
Saudi-drafted peace plan.

