

West Indies coach Bennett King believes Caribbean cricket needs
to introduce fundamental changes if there is to be a return to
the team's glory days.


Only a series of freak results can save the West Indies from
World Cup elimination after a dire Super Eights campaign which
has seen them lose four second round matches.


King said he put forward proposals more than two years ago, but
he said he was still awaiting an official response from the cash-
strapped West Indies Cricket Board in establishing an academy to
nurture young talent.


"Our performance will stay the same if we don't make a move and
change some of the issues worrying us at the moment," King told
the Caribbean Media Corporation.


"It's going to take time. Certainly the boys have the skill, but
they need a supportive environment when they are back at home,
and when they are going to international events.


"People are still talking about what is going to happen after the
World Cup.


"We have to find out whether these facilities are going to be
available to the players after the tournament. That's a question
I can't answer."


The West Indies have two more matches left to play - against
Bangladesh on Thursday and England on Saturday.


They need to win those games and also hope other results go their
way to allow them to make the semi-finals.


However, if South Africa beat England here on Tuesday, then all
hope will be lost.


King called on the public to get behind Brian Lara's team.


"We have to rally around the boys and support them," King said.


"Our performances will stay the same if we don't change some
things. Everyone has the will to win, but we need the people of
the region to continue to support the players and make sure some
of the structures we are hoping to put in place off the field are
there.


"We talk a good game, but we have to go out and put the runs on
the board, so to speak."

