

European equity markets sparkled on Monday, with London's FTSE
100 shares index at the highest level for almost six and a half
years as investors spied a potential bidding war for Dutch bank
ABN Amro.


In late morning trade on Friday, the FTSE 100 index soared 0.22
percent to 6,496.20 points -- the highest point since November 8,
2000. It later stood at 6,495.50, up 0.51 percent from Friday's
close.


Frankfurt's DAX 30 gained 0.76 percent to 7,266.86 points, in
Paris the CAC 40 increased 0.63 percent to 5,825.85 points, and
in Dutch trading the Amsterdam Exchanges Index surged 1.20
percent to 529.97.


The DJ Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone blue chip shares won 0.83
percent to 4,353.21 points.


The euro stood at 1.3556 dollars.


Wall Street shares had finished higher on Friday after a choppy
day's trade as investor confidence picked up momentum before the
weekend.


Japanese share prices closed with gains on Monday on expectations
that exporters would continue to benefit from weakness of the yen
after world finance chiefs had skirted the issue over the
weekend, dealers said.


In Europe on Monday, investors tracked news on ABN Amro, which is
currently in exclusive talks with Britain's Barclays Bank about a
takeover deal.


ABN Amro had revealed last Friday that Bank of Scotland (RBS),
Dutch group Fortis and Banco Santander of Spain, had also
approached it about a possible acquisition.


In Amsterdam, ABN shares soared 5.23 percent to 35.41 euros in
late morning Monday trade.


Citing unnamed people familiar with the discussions, the
Financial Times had reported that Barclays and ABN Amro have set
themselves a deadline of this Wednesday to agree to a deal.


In London trading, Barclays shares raced 1.75 percent higher to
756.5 pence.


RBS shares surged by 3.61 percent to 2,096 pence. RBS, the second
biggest British bank was also boosted after selling 47 Marriott
hotels to an Irish-led investment consortium for 1.1 billion
pounds (1.6 billion euros, 2.2 billion dollars).


In Madrid, Santander shares added 0.71 percent to 13.91 euros as
broker UBS said that ABN's Brazilian assets would be a good fit.


However, back in Amsterdam, Fortis stock drooped 0.23 percent to
34.72 euros.


In US deals on Friday, the major share indexes notched up
respectable gains despite some lacklustre corporate earnings
reports and lukewarm economic news.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average finished up 0.47 percent at
12,612.13 points. The Nasdaq composite rebounded to close up 0.47
percent at 2,491.94 points while the Standard and Poor's 500
broad-market index gained 0.35 percent to 1,452.85.


In Asian deals on Monday, Tokyo's Nikkei-225 index of leading
shares rose 1.52 percent to 17,628.30 points.


Hong Kong's key Hang Seng Index closed up 2.05 percent at
20,757.53 points, led by China Mobile and other blue chips on
strong liquidity inflows after another record high on China's
A-share bourses, dealers said.


China's Shanghai A-share Index was up 2.22 percent at 3,780.61
points on strong fund inflows, owing partly to a rise of the yuan
and interest in banks and power generators.

