

US Defence Secretary Robert Gates arrived in Jordan on Monday at
the start of a three-nation Middle East tour officials said was
aimed at confronting Iran's influence in the region and pledging
support for the government of Iraq.


"Jordan has always been an ally of the United States," Gates told
reporters on the plane ahead of landing in Amman. "The Jordanians
have for a long time been a very constructive influence and I
look forward to continuing that."


He said he looked forward to speaking with Jordan's King Abdullah
II about "how we can contribute to his (peace) efforts and how
the Jordanians can contribute to ours, not just in Iraq but in
Lebanon (and) the Palestinian peace process."


A senior defence official said Gates will talk about recent
events with the king and that "Iran in particular" will be on the
agenda.


Throughout the trip the defence secretary will seek support for
the Gulf Security Dialogue, an umbrella framework for talks
between the United States and the Gulf states.


The Security Dialogue focuses on "common concerns about Persian
hegemony in the region... (and) involvement of Shiite political
movements in some countries, and how to mitigate that, and how to
respond to that collectively," said the official, speaking on
condition of anonymity.


"The best way to confront Iran is to confront Iranian behaviour
in Iraq" the official said. The trip will focus on "how we can
work with strategic allies in the region" to achieve that goal.


Jordan has a military field hospital in Iraq staffed by about 200
soldiers and another in Afghanistan with a staff of about 370
soldiers.


There are some training camps for Iraqi air force personnel and
Iraqi police in Jordan. To date some 45,000 Iraqi police have
received training in Jordan, the US official said.


Gates will go on to meet top military officials in Jordan, Egypt
and Israel to reassure the three countries of Washington's
continued support, US officials said.

