

The European Commission on Monday voiced deep concern at Russian
police action over the weekend, when they clubbed and detained
opposition protesters demonstrating against President Vladimir
Putin.


"Freedom of expression and freedom of assembly are very important
values to which Russia has signed up" as a member of the United
Nations and other bodies, said Christiane Hohmann, spokeswoman
for the EU's exective arm on external relations.


While saying the Commission was "very concerned" about the events
in Moscow and Saint Petersburg, Hohmann declined to condemn
outright the acts of the Russian police.


Russian police clubbed and detained opposition protesters in
Saint Petersburg on Sunday after a peaceful demonstration against
Putin.


About 120 people were detained, city police told ITAR-TASS news
agency, following the protest by The Other Russia, an opposition
coalition that accuses Putin of dismantling democracy.


The clashes in Saint Petersburg followed a violent crackdown on a
similar rally by The Other Russia in Moscow on Saturday. At least
200 people were arrested there, including one of the coalition's
leaders, former world chess champion Garry Kasparov, who was
released hours later.


The spokeswoman in Brussels said the European Commission deems
respect for human rights principles to be "very important in the
pre-election phase in Russia" adding that the EU executive
"continues to raise these matters in its regular political
meetings and human rights consultations with Russia".


An EU-Russia summit is due to be held in Samara, Russia next
month.


And an EU-Russia troika meeting -- involving Russian Foreign
Minister Sergei Lavrov -- is also scheduled on the sidelines of
an EU foreign minister's meeting in Luxembourg next Monday.


Russia will hold legislative elections in December ahead of a
presidential vote next March.

