

Ireland's smoking ban has resulted in an 83 percent drop in air
pollution in pubs, improving bar workers' health, according to a
study published on Monday.


The research, in the American Journal of Respiratory and Critical
Care Medicine, involved 81 barmen in 42 Dublin pubs before and
after the ban was introduced in March 2004.


The researchers found there was an 83 percent reduction in
pollution, an 80 percent reduction in cancer-causing agents like
benzene and a 79 percent reduction in exhaled breath carbon
monoxide.


"There were statistically significant improvements in measured
pulmonary function tests and significant reductions in self-
reported symptoms and exposure levels in non-smoking barmen
volunteers after the ban," the study said.


It concludes "a total workplace smoking ban results in a
significant reduction in air pollution in pubs and an improvement
in respiratory health in barmen."


The study was conducted by the Research Institute for a Tobacco
Free Society in collaboration with the Dublin Institute of
Technology.


Ireland has outlawed smoking in every workplace including pubs
and restaurants and even on fishing boats and in company cars.


Anyone found breaching it faces a fine of up to 3,000 euros
(4,065 dollars) and pubs run the risk of ultimately losing their
licence.


It is estimated that about 6,000 people die each year in Ireland
from smoking- related diseases.


Workplaces in the whole island of Ireland will become smoke-free
at the end of the month when a ban is introduced in British-ruled
Northern Ireland.

