

The number of anti-Semitism acts rose sharply across the world in
2006, with violent incidents in Britain reaching a 20-year peak,
said a study published on Monday.


"A sharp escalation in physical, verbal and visual manifestations
of anti- Semitism was recorded in 2006," said the study conducted
by the Stephen Roth Institute for the Study of anti-Semitism and
Racism of Israel's Tel Aviv University.


The study was published as Israel marked Holocaust Remembrance
Day, honouring the memory of the six million Jews killed by the
Nazis during World War II.


A total of 590 cases of violence and vandalism aimed at Jews,
Jewish property and institutions were recorded worldwide in 2006,
the study said, with the number of physical attacks against Jews
doubling compared with the previous year.


The sharpest rise in anti-Semitic incidents was registered in
Britain, with a 60 percent increase in overall attacks and a 37
percent increase in violent attacks against individuals -- a
20-year high.


Australia also recorded a sharp 47 percent rise in overall anti-
Semitic attacks, compared with its yearly average, it said.


The United States, by contrast, marked an overall decrease of 12
percent in anti-Semitic manifestations.


Among the perpetrators of recorded incidents were Muslim
immigrants in Western countries as well as right-wing extremists
and their sympathisers.


The report attributed the dramatic rise due mainly to Israel's
war against Hezbollah in Lebanon last summer and repeated
statements by Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad questioning
the Holocaust and calling for Israel to be wiped off the map.


"A very high number of cases was concentrated in a short period
in summer 2006 during the Second Lebanon War, and there is little
doubt that the war and the hostile atmosphere around it worldwide
incited radical Muslims and extreme rightists to intensify their
activities against Jews," the report said.

