

Twelve Kurdish rebels and a Turkish soldier were killed Monday in
clashes in eastern Turkey, security sources said.


A soldier was also wounded in fighting between the army and
rebels from the outlawed Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) near
Hozat, in Tunceli province, the sources said.


General Yasar Buyukanit, chief of the general staff, said last
week that "large- scale" operations had been launched against the
PKK with the arrival of spring, when the rebels step up attacks
as snow melts in the mountains, facilitating their movement.


The latest clashes bring the toll to at least 46 PKK militants
and 11 soldiers killed since the beginning of the month.


More than 37,000 people have died since the PKK, listed as a
terrorist group by Ankara and much of the international
community, took up arms for self-rule in the Kurdish-majority
southeast of Turkey in 1984.


A suspected PKK militant planning to carry out a bomb attack
against a police station in the central city of Konya turned
himself in after he realized he was about to be captured, the
Anatolia news agency reported.


Police found a time-bomb in his bag and defused it.


A subsequent operation in the neighbouring province of Isparta,
where the suspect lived, led to five people being detained and
six timed devices and bomb- making material being seized, the
agency said.


Turkey says thousands of rebels have found refuge in neighbouring
northern Iraq, where they obtain weapons and explosives for
attacks on targets inside Turkey.


At a press conference on Thursday, Buyukanit argued for a cross-
border operation into the Kurdish-held enclave to hunt down the
rebels.

