

Ladislav Adamec, the communist prime minister during former
Czechoslovakia's Velvet Revolution which overthrew nearly 50
years of one-party rule, has died aged 80, state television
reported Monday.


Adamec is credited with refusing demands for an army crackdown on
the opposition movement at the start of the revolution in 1989.


The long time Communist Party functionary admitted the need for
"political reform" in the wake of the fall of the Berlin Wall,
which signalled independence for the Soviet Union's former
satellite states.


Adamec abolished visas for citizens wanting to travel to the West
in mid- November and took the first steps towards abolishing the
Communist Party's leading role in public life.


But he resisted some of the demands of the opposition led by
former playwright Vaclav Havel, and still held out hope that the
party could cling to power.


His offer of a communist-dominated government containing five
non-party members was rejected by the democracy movement.


Adamec's successor and the country's last communist prime
minister, Marian Calfa, named a government in which the
communists occupied only half the posts. Calfa went on to pilot a
peaceful handover of power.


Adamec, who hailed from a mining family in the east of the
current Czech Republic, joined the Communist Party in 1946. He
was voted onto the party's central committee in 1966 at the start
of the reformist "Prague Spring" which ended with the invasion of
Warsaw Pact troops in 1968.


He was re-elected to the party's main decision making body as it
cracked down on reformist elements after the invasion, becoming
prime minister in October 1988.


Adamec was replaced at the head of the party at the end of 1990.
He attempted unsuccessfully to make a political comeback at
elections to the Czech Senate in 1996.

