

The presidents of Pakistan and Afghanistan are set to meet for
talks in Turkey in a bid to cool tensions between the two allies
in the "war on terror", officials said Monday.


Ankara has offered to host the meeting between Pakistan President
Pervez Musharraf and his Afghan counterpart Hamid Karzai,
Pakistani Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Tasnim Aslam told a weekly
briefing.


"Arrangements are in hand for a possible trilateral meeting in
response to an initiative by the Turkish government," Aslam said
when asked to comment on newspaper reports that Musharraf and
Karzai would hold talks.


She would not give any date for the meeting. The English-language
daily, Dawn, said the two leaders would fly to Ankara on April 29
and hold talks in the presence of Turkish leaders.


Pakistan and Afghanistan have been at loggerheads for months over
accusations that Islamabad is failing to stop Taliban militants
based in its tribal areas from launching attacks across the
border.


Musharraf hit out at Karzai on Friday, telling US television that
he was "very angry" at Karzai's criticisms and blaming a "total
lack of understanding of the environment and reality by President
(Hamid) Karzai himself."


The Pakistani president also dismissed as "absolute nonsense" a
claim by Karzai that fugitive Taliban supremo Mullah Omar was
hiding out in Pakistan's southwestern city of Quetta.


Musharraf last week said he was troubled by lingering mistrust in
his commitment, saying that if Pakistani, Afghan and
international forces "are all bluffing each other then it is
better to end the cooperation."


"We expect the international community to have trust in us,"
Aslam said.


She added that the international community "should not try and
deflect their own failures by criticising Pakistan."

