

Japan, India and the United States on Monday conducted their
first joint naval drills in the Pacific Ocean but denied any link
to China's military build-up.


Senior defence and foreign ministry officials said the exercises
were aimed at forging closer ties and not prompted by the growing
might of China, whose Premier Wen Jiabao paid a landmark visit to
Japan last week.


"We have no intentions to check China," Vice Defence Minister
Takemasa Moriya was quoted by the daily Mainichi newspaper as
saying.


Vice Foreign Minister Shotaro Yachi said: "The drills are not
directed at any third country," according to Kyodo News. He added
that China need not worry about the manoeuvres, which are a
"goodwill exercise."


Japan sent four escort vessels to the drill off Japan's east
coast, where two US destroyers and three Indian warships joined
the exercise, a Japanese defence ministry spokesman said.


"The first naval drill between Japan, the United States and India
is aimed at boosting the friendly relationship among the three
countries as well as improving maritime technique," the spokesman
said.


The drill also looks at cooperation in the event of a major
natural disaster such as a tsunami.


Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has repeatedly called for a
four-way alliance among Japan, India, the United States and
Australia to counter Tokyo's frequent tension with China.


Abe agreed to the naval exercises during a summit with his Indian
counterpart Manmohan Singh in December.


India has also been working to ease longstanding tensions with
China.


Its warships training with Japan and the United States were also
scheduled to have joint exercises with China, Russia and Vietnam,
according to the Indian defence ministry.

