

EU Enlargement Commissioner Olli Rehn urged Serbia's political
factions Monday to form a new government saying the Balkan
state's European Union future hinged on prompt action.


"Serbia has much at stake in the practical formation of a new
government, although there can hardly be talk about the rapid
formation of a government," he said, almost three months after
the Serbian general elections.


The EU froze a Stabilisation and Association Agreement (SAA) with
Belgrade last May chiefly over its failure to surrender former
Bosnian Serb army chief Ratko Mladic, believed to be hiding in
Serbia, to the UN war crimes court.


The talks are a first step for Balkan countries to join the EU.


"Every day, every week, every month that is lost in the formation
of a new government slows down the possibilities of resuming and
then concluding the Stabilisation and Association Agreement,"
Rehn said.


"I seriously appeal to the leaders of the democratic forces in
Serbia to cooperate and now form a new government as soon as
possible," he said, in the latest in a series of EU calls to
Belgrade.


He underlined that the cabinet would have to commit to fully
cooperate with the International Criminal Tribunal for former
Yugoslavia (ICTY) before talks could resume.


Rehn said on March 6 that Serbia has the resources to quickly
finish the SAA negotiations and that if it did so in the next few
months it would be well placed to qualify for EU membership
candidacy status next year.


President Boris Tadic's Democrats are still struggling to find a
compromise on governing with Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica's
Democratic Party of Serbia and the G17 Plus party.


Analysts say that no party is keen to be in power when the final
status of Kosovo is decided, as that government would be blamed
if the Serbian province's ethnic Albanian majority wins
independence.

