

Singapore Airlines (SIA) said Monday it has chosen US-based
advertising firm TBWA as its new creative agency and will keep
the iconic Singapore Girl as a symbol of its famed cabin service.


SIA, one of the world's most profitable airlines, did not
disclose a value for the contract, but local media reports have
said the highly coveted account is worth 50 million Singapore
dollars (33 million US) a year.


TBWA beat DDB and Publicis in the highly competitive bid for the
account.


"Our valuation process took the time we needed to satisfy
ourselves that TBWA's creative concepts suited where we think the
brand should be positioned in future years," said SIA executive
vice president for marketing and the regions, Huang Cheng Eng.


He allayed concerns the selection of a new creative agency would
lead the carrier to drop the Singapore Girl, which has endured as
a widely recognised symbol among travellers worldwide of SIA's
highly rated inflight service.


"Singapore Airlines remains committed to its underlying branding,
emphasised by the Singapore Girl as an iconic personification of
the service customers expect onboard Singapore Airlines flights,"
Huang said.


"This is part of our commitment to be a premium, full-service
network airline and an industry leader.


"We are very pleased now to embark on the next phase in
communicating these brand values to our customers the world over,
and welcome TBWA to our team."


An SIA announcement in January that it was putting up its
creative advertisement contract -- held by Batey Ads since 1972
-- for tender had sparked speculation the Singapore Girl icon
would be dropped.


Dressed in the figure-hugging traditional Malay "sarong kebaya"
outfit, the Singapore Girl was created by Batey Ads, which is
owned by global communications group WPP.


Batey Ads was not on a shortlist of the bidders announced by the
airline in March.

