

The euro jumped to a fresh all-time high point against the yen on
Monday after Group of Seven finance chiefs avoided specific
mention of the sliding Japanese currency after a weekend meet,
dealers said.


The euro climed to a record 162.43 yen in Asian trade and the
price of gold rose sharply.


In European deals, the euro stood at 1.3553 dollars, compared
with 1.3532 dollars late on Friday in New York.


The dollar rose to 119.52 yen, from 119.22 yen on Friday.


Sterling meanwhile climbed to 1.9940 dollars -- the highest level
since September 1992.


"The euro has derived support against the yen from the communique
following the Group of Seven meeting last Friday in Washington,"
said Paul Chertkow, head of currency research at The Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi in London.


"The appreciation of the euro against the yen buoyed the dollar
against the yen," he added.


The Group of Seven finance chiefs avoided specific mention of the
sliding Japanese currency, which has unsettled eurozone officials
who fear it will erode eurozone export earnings and dampen
growth.


The European single currency also hit fresh two-year highs
against the dollar on Monday amid concerns about slowing US
economic growth as well as the prospects for another interest
rate rise in the eurozone, traders said.


Sterling is close to the key 2.0-dollar level following the
release of strong economic data.


On Monday official data revealed a stronger than expected rise in
British wholesale prices.


"The data adds to the case for a May (rate) hike and should prove
supportive for the pound," Calyon analyst Daragh Maher said.


"Quite how far the rally in the pound can be extended will hinge
on tomorrow's (Tuesday's British) inflation data and on
Wednesday's minutes of the Bank of England's last rate setting
meeting, both of which we expect to prove supportive," he added.


On Wednesday, the minutes of the BoE's rate setting deliberations
are predicted to show a definite slant towards a rate hike, even
though the central bank chose to leave interest rates unchanged
at the near six-year high of 5.25 percent earlier this month.


The euro was changing hands at 1.3553 dollars, against 1.3532
dollars late on Friday, 161.99 yen (161.32), 0.6808 pounds
(0.6811) and 1.6442 Swiss francs (1.6436).


The dollar stood at 119.52 yen (119.22) and 1.2130 Swiss francs
(1.2144).


The pound was being traded at 1.9911 dollars (1.9866).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold advanced to
687.55 dollars per ounce, from 681.75 dollars late on Friday.

