

German and Spanish airlines Lufthansa and Iberia are not in any
tie-up talks, their respective chief executives Wolfgang
Mayrhuber and Fernando Conte said on Monday.


"There are no negotiations" with Iberia, Lufthansa CEO Mayrhuber
told AFP on the sidelines of an airline industry congress here.


His counterpart at Iberia, Conte, also said that no talks were
officially underway between the two carriers.


There has been persistent speculation that Lufthansa is
interested in buying Iberia, which is seen as a takeover target
in the consolidation of the European airline industry.


Mayrhuber said that while Iberia might be an interesting partner
for Lufthansa, given its strong network of flights to central and
south America, its current asking price was too high.


"Speculative prices can't be financed by us," Mayrhuber said,
referring to Iberia's market value which has soared to 3.7
billion euros (five billion dollars) amid persistent speculation
it might be acquired by Lufthansa, or British Airways, which
already holds a 10-percent stake in the Spanish airline. "There
is nothing new" on the matter, Mayrhuber said, repeating
Lufthansa's position. Lufthansa was examining all possible
takeover opportunities, but a deal "would have to make sense for
both parties," he said.


The business weekly WirtschaftsWoche, quoting sources close to
the matter, had reported that the Lufthansa chief had set up a
team to examine the possibility of taking over Iberia, with a
decision expected this month.


The US investment fund, Texas Pacific Group (TPG), became the
first company to officially express an interest in Iberia,
announcing it planned to launch a bid at 3.60 euros per share or
3.4 billion euros in all.


Iberia has not issued an official response so far, requesting
additional details from TPG, notably on possible partners.

