

The New York Times Monday called for the ouster of World Bank
president Paul Wolfowitz who is embroiled in a scandal for
securing a hefty pay raise for his girlfriend who worked there.


The influential daily said Wolfowitz should step down since he
had championed good governance and has "fallen far short of his
own standards."


"What might Mr Wolfowitz himself say if he discovered that a
government receiving World Bank loans was making similar sweet
arrangements for the personal friends of its president?," the
paper asked.


"There is no way Mr Wolfowitz can recover his credibility and
continue to be effective at the bank."


Wolfowitz on Sunday refused to resign as the development lender's
member governments revealed their "great concern" over staggering
pay hikes and guaranteed promotions he won for his girlfriend,
Shaha Riza.


Asked if it was hypocritical for him to stay in office while
waging a war on corruption in the World Bank's 24-billion-dollar
annual lending, he said: "I'm not commenting on the premise of
the question. I will just stop there."


But the 185-member bank's ministerial policymakers remained split
on his fate, with the former Pentagon deputy chief continuing to
enjoy strong backing from the US administration.


The ministers said they would await the findings of a review by
the World Bank's executive board into the conduct of Wolfowitz,
who directed that his Libyan-born partner get a pay deal worth
nearly 200,000 dollars.


Wolfowitz first claimed that he had nothing to do with the
generous terms of the assignment, then admitted his involvement
but said he acted in "good faith" to resolve an unprecedented
personnel problem.

