

Hungary's main right-wing opposition Fidesz party suspended a
six-month boycott of Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsany out of
respect for Holocaust Memorial Day here on Monday, a party
spokesman said.


Since October last year, members of parliament from Fidesz and
its ally, the small Christian Democratic People's Party (KDNP),
walked out of the parliamentary chamber every time the prime
minister rose to speak.


But on Monday they stayed in their seats as Gyurcsany called for
"zero tolerance" against hate speech, which he said laid the
ground for the deportation and death of 600,000 ethnic
Hungarians, mostly Jews, in the Holocaust.


"The presidency of Fidesz decided immediately before the prime
minister's speech not to leave the chamber due to the
extraordinary event," Fidesz MP Robert Repassy was quoted as
saying by MTI news agency.


He said Fidesz would continue its boycott of Gyurcsany in the
future.


The boycott is part of Fidesz efforts to force the socialist
prime minister to resign after the September 17 leak of an audio
tape on which he was heard saying he knowingly misled voters on
the economy to win re-election last April.


The revelation initially triggered violent street riots by far-
right extremists, which reignited on October 23 -- the 50th
anniversary of the 1956 anti-Soviet uprising -- and on March 15,
during national day festivities.


Fidesz President Viktor Orban, who lost April's elections, on
Monday reiterated at a press conference that the Gyurcsany
government was, according to him, "legal but illegitimate"
because it had lost the confidence of voters after having misled
them.


Gyurcsany had promised tax cuts in the last elections but instead
pushed through parliament an austerity package including tax
rises and energy price subsidy cuts in an effort to rein in the
country's public deficit, the highest inside the European Union.

