

Prime minister Ismail Haniya of Hamas on Monday called for all
Palestinian prisoners to be released from Israeli jails as the
territories marked annual Prisoners Day.


Haniya also said that intifada leader Marwan Barghuti of the
rival Fatah party was on a list of those they wanted freed in
exchange for a soldier seized by Gaza-based militants, contrary
to statements from Israeli officials.


"All the prisoners should be released, not only those who are
included in the exchange" for captured Israeli soldier Gilad
Shalit, Haniya said.


Shalit was seized last June 25 by three groups, including the
armed wing of Hamas, after militants tunnelled out of Gaza and
attacked an Israeli border post in a dawn raid.


Egypt has been mediating drawn-out talks between the Israelis and
Palestinians over a possible prisoner release in exchange for the
soldier.


"No country has stopped talking about Shalit," Haniya said. "His
name is one of the most famous. But who knows the names of... our
prisoners in the prisons of the occupation?"


More than 9,000 Palestinian prisoners are currently being held in
Israeli jails. Last week the Palestinins gave Israel a list of
some 450 whom they want freed in return for Shalit.


The list reportedly includes those who have been implicated in
attacks that killed Israelis, people the Jewish state has so far
said it would not release.


Haniya said that the charismatic Barghuti, the West Bank leader
of president Mahmud Abbas's secular Fatah party who is widely
revered by Palestinians as the mastermind of their second
uprising or intifada, was among those the Palestinians want
freed.


"The name of Marwan Barghuti, the senior Fatah official, is
included," he said.


Last week a member of Israel's powerful security cabinet, Housing
Minister Meir Sheetrit, said that Barghuti's name was not on the
list the Palestinians gave to Israel.


Barghuti is serving five life sentences for planning attacks
against Israelis.

