

Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki welcomed radical cleric
Moqtada al-Sadr's decision to pull out of government on Monday,
saying it freed up seats at the cabinet table for "efficient
ministers".


Earlier, pro-Sadr lawmakers had announced that six Shiite
ministers would leave the ruling coalition in protest at Maliki's
failure to set a timeline for the withdrawal of US forces from
the war-torn country.


But, in a statement from his office, Maliki portrayed the
defection as a welcome opportunity to hand the six portfolios to
ministers chosen for their abilities rather than their religious
affiliation.


"Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki welcomed the announcement of his
eminence Muqtada al-Sadr," the statement said.


Maliki said that Sadr's decision gave him "the task of selecting
efficient ministers for the posts formerly occupied by ministers
from the Sadr bloc, without reference to sectarian power-sharing
policy.


"The prime minister appreciates the support of the Sadr bloc to
the political process but stresses that a sectarian sharing
policy was not the right option to help Iraq in the face of
challenges and difficulties.


"He also recalled that the issue of the withdrawal of
multinational forces depends on the readiness of our armed forces
to take charge of security in all provinces," the statement
added.


Maliki is now expected to proceed with a long-promised reshuffle
of his cabinet, chosen amid horsetrading between Sunni Arab,
Sunni Shiite and ethnic Kurd factions in Iraq's fractious
national unity coalition.

