

US consumers appeared to regain some of their legendary appetite
for shopping last month as retail sales spiked by a more-than-
expected 0.7 percent, the government said Monday.


The Commerce Department's monthly snapshot on retail sales, a key
driver of economic growth, defied most Wall Street analysts who
had only anticipated a 0.4 percent rise in March sales.


The sales gain was also the strongest since December, when sales
are heavily bolstered by shoppers snapping up Christmas gifts.


Stripping out auto sales from the March report, retail sales
gained 0.8 percent, a shade better than most analysts had
forecast.


Upward revisions to February retail sales were also likely to
cheer investors as the government said it had revised February
retail sales up several notches to 0.5 percent.


The latest report was likely to be welcomed by Wall Street as it
appears to show American consumers' flocked to shopping malls
last month despite a housing market slump and high gasoline
prices taking a bite out of their incomes.


Over the past 12 months, overall retail sales are up 3.8 percent
or 3.9 percent excluding the auto sector.


The report comes after major retailers announced their latest
chain store sales for March last week, with several reporting
improved turnover and retail titan Wal-Mart unveiling better-
than-expected sales.


Breaking down the numbers, most sectors saw improved sales last
month.


Auto sales although slowing from February, still grew 0.4 percent
in March with sales of Japanese marques showing brisk turnover as
some big US nameplates, notably Chrysler, struggled to maintain
sales momentum.


Fuel sales at service stations during March surged 3.1 percent
after rising 1.5 percent in the prior month, while turnover at
the nation's restaurants rebounded a healthy 1.2 percent from a
0.6 percent decline previously.

