

More than 40 members of the Basque separatist group ETA, which in
December staged its first deadly attack since 2003, are under
surveillance in Spain and France, a Spanish daily reported
Monday.


The majority are on French soil with the rest in Navarre and the
Basque country in northern Spain, El Mundo reported citing
sources working in the anti- terrorism field.


Police estimate that there are more than 100 young radicals who
are the "new troops" of ETA, whose 38-year-old campaign for an
independent Basque state carved from northern Spain and
southwestern France has claimed over 800 lives.


Unlike the "hard core" of ETA who hide mostly in France, the
majority of these new recruits have no police records, the
newspaper said.


ETA said it has stood by a March 2006 ceasefire declaration
despite its December car bombing at Madrid's airport that killed
two people and led the Spanish government to halt its peace
process with the armed group.


Spanish police arrested nine suspected ETA members and seized
some 170 kilograms (375 pounds) of material to make explosives in
a sweep carried out at the end of March in northern Spain which
they said had dismantled an ETA cell known as "Donosti" that
carried out 24 attacks between 2004 and 2006.


The cell had drawn up a list with over 300 names, mostly of
public figures, representatives of political parties, members of
security forces and business leaders, El Mundo reported citing
its unnamed sources.


Police suspect the cell was drawing up information on potential
targets and planned to "carry out some sort of criminal action in
the short term," it said.


Last week the Spanish newspaper ABC reported that ETA has two
active cells ready to launch attacks in Spain if its banned
political wing Batasuna was prevented from entering local
elections in May.

