

India's largest domestic carrier Jet Airways said Monday that it
will turn loss- making Air Sahara into a low-cost airline to
ensure that its purchase of the carrier will not strain cash
flow.


Jet clinched a deal last Thursday to take over Air Sahara for
nearly 340 million dollars.


Air Sahara, which competed with Jet Airways for lucrative
business travel, would be renamed "Jetlite" and compete for
passengers looking for deals in the country's rapidly growing
aviation market, founder and chairman of Jet Airways Naresh Goyal
told reporters in Mumbai Monday.


"Jetlite will be positioned between a low-budget and a full-
service carrier," Goyal said.


Jet Airways, listed on Indian bourses, hopes to avoid large
upfront expenses to integrate Air Sahara into its operations and
has also staggered payments to ensure even cash flow, the
company's executive director said.


"We will not be taking on Air Sahara's debt. Further, we will
make staggered payments, as decided upon, from internal
resources. There will be no strain on our cash balances," Jet
Airways executive director Saroj Dutta told media.


An earlier plan to merge the airlines collapsed nine months ago
in a dispute over the cost of Sahara after Jet Airways judged the
initial 500-million-dollar price too high.


Jet shares closed up 6.25 rupees or one percent to 632 Monday,
while the benchmark Mumbai stock exchange Sensex index ended up
311.50 points or 2.33 percent to 13,695.58.


At the end of 2006, Jet Airways had a 32.8 percent share of
domestic Indian air travel market, while Air Sahara controlled
8.7 percent, according to official figures.


A slew of budget airlines and state-run domestic carrier Indian
hold the remaining market share.

