

A spring storm was battering the northeastern United States on
Monday after grounding hundreds of flights and causing localized
flooding at the weekend, officials said.


High winds whipped up waves in the Atlantic Ocean and caused
flooding in coastal areas, while New York City reported the
second highest amount of rainfall ever recorded in one day with
almost 19 centimeters (7.5 inches).


"It's a strong low pressure system -- the pressure's as low as
you'd get with a category two type hurricane -- but it is
starting to weaken slowly," explained Michael Wyllie, a
meteorologist with the National Weather Service.


"It's caused a lot of problems for people in the metropolitan
region as well as most of the country and it's left an incredible
amount of water behind, especially in New York and northeast New
Jersey," he said.


"If the temperatures were lower, we would have had an incredible
amount of snow... I don't want to estimate how much snow that
would have been," he said.


Connecticut authorities reported high winds and downed trees in
several areas, while New Jersey called a state of emergency and
advised people not to travel unless necessary.


First Lady Laura Bush was forced to cancel a day trip to
Connecticut due to the hazardous weather.


In Massachusetts, the Boston marathon kicked off as planned,
despite pouring rain and wind gusts of up to 80 kilometers per
hour (50 miles per hour), organizers said, describing the
conditions as "dreadful."


Flood warnings were in place along a broad swathe of the east
coast, from Maine in the north down to Pennsylvania, the National
Weather Service said.

