

Military chiefs from the United States and Malaysia Monday hailed
improved security in the strategic Malacca Strait following
aggressive security patrols in recent years.


The Commander of the US Pacific Command, Admiral Timothy J.
Keating, said information-sharing with allies to keep the
waterway safe had improved.


"It is a significant challenge, but we are capitalising on a very
aggressive position from each of our allies," Keating said.


"It is a situation that is much different and much improved just
in the past five years," he said at a press conference jointly
hosted by Malaysia and the US Pacific Command.


Pirate attacks in the 960-kilometre (595 mile) long sea lane have
been reduced in recent years after Indonesia stepped up patrols.


Security agencies have warned, however, that the waterway which
connects the Indian Ocean to the South China Sea remained under
threat from extremists.


Half of the world's oil shipments pass through the Malacca
Strait.


Citing coordinated air patrols by Malaysia, Singapore and
Indonesia over the waterway, Malaysia's defence forces chief,
Abdul Aziz Zainal said there had been a "tremendous reduction" in
piracy attacks.


"We are actually providing full security measures in the Strait
of Malacca for the movement of ships," he said in the press
conference with Keating.


Ships from Europe, the Middle East and Asia carrying about one-
third of global trade pass through the waterway, while about 11
million barrels of oil pass through it daily.


The three littoral states have increased sea and air patrols,
pumping in resources to curb the problem, which saw 11 reported
attacks in 2006 compared to 38 in 2004.


The Strait was once one of the world's top piracy black spots,
listed by an influential London insurer in 2005 as one of the 20
areas worldwide -- alongside Iraq and Lebanon -- that it deemed
security threats to shipping.


The war-risk tag, strongly criticised by Malaysia, was removed in
August last year.

