

A group of private equity investors said Monday they were buying
US student loan finance giant Sallie Mae for a hefty 25 billion
dollars.


In the latest in a wave of big private equity deals, the investor
group led by JC Flowers & Co said it signed a definitive
agreement to purchase SLM Corporation, or Sallie Mae, for 60
dollars a share.


Sallie Mae was created in 1972 as a government-sponsored
corporation to finance student loans. It began privatizing in
1997, and severed ties to the federal government in 2004.


Sallie Mae manages 142 billion dollars in education loans for
some 10 million students and parents. In 2006 it originated 23.4
billion dollars of student loans.


When the deal is complete, JC Flowers along with private-equity
firm Friedman Fleischer & Lowe will invest 4.4 billion
dollars and own 50.2 percent of the group. Bank of America and
JPMorgan Chase each will invest 2.2 billion dollars and each will
own 24.9 percent.


Sallie Mae's board members have approved the agreement and
recommended it to shareholders.


"We are pleased to invest in Sallie Mae and help provide
increased liquidity, stability and financial strength," said J.
Christopher Flowers, managing director at JC Flowers.


"Both Bank of America and JPMorgan Chase have fully committed to
support the company with short and long-term financing."


The new owners said in a statement they are "committed to
supporting Sallie Mae's focus on transparency among lenders,
schools and students and on corporate governance."


Sallie Mae will remain subject to oversight by Congress and the
Department of Education.


Sallie Mae last week agreed to pay two million dollars to settle
a New York state probe into possible conflicts of interests and
kickbacks in the student loan industry.

