

Citigroup said Monday its first-quarter profits fell 11 percent
to 5.01 billion dollars as the banking powerhouse set aside funds
for a major belt-tightening plan for its worldwide operations.


The earnings amounted to 1.01 dollars per share, or 1.18 dollars
excluding one- time costs, against market expectations for 1.09
dollars a share.


The results include a previously disclosed charge of 1.38 billion
dollars linked to an overhaul that will see 17,000 job losses and
a shifting of 9,500 positions to "lower cost locations" while
some corporate operations are consolidated.


Citigroup said it generated strong momentum during the quarter,
with revenues increasing 15 percent to a record 25.459 billion
dollars, driven by growing customer business volumes.


"We achieved these results while completing our structural
expense review, which will help us become a leaner, more
efficient organization and lower our rate of expense growth,"
said chairman and chief executive Charles Prince.


"As we look ahead, our priorities are clear: we will invest to
grow and integrate our businesses, take actions to improve
efficiency and lower costs, and continue to build momentum across
our franchises."


Prince said some changes in Citi operations will come from new
acquisitions and efforts "in expanding our distribution and
enhancing our technology as we build a broad, strong foundation
for future growth."


This included acquisition of British-based Egg, Ltd., described
as the world's largest internet bank, and an offer to buy the
scandal-hit Japanese securities firm Nikko Cordial.


Global consumer deposits were up 12 percent during the quarter
and global consumer loans grew 11 percent.


In the bank's international franchises, revenues grew 18 percent,
led by international markets and banking revenue which spiked 20
percent.

