

The Professional Footballers' Association Player of the Year
award will be a case of Manchester United against the rest this
season.


United dominate the award nominations with three players making
the six-man shortlist.


Alongside overwhelming favourite Cristiano Ronaldo are his
veteran team-mates Paul Scholes and Ryan Giggs as well as
Chelsea's Ivory Coast forward Didier Drogba, Arsenal's Spanish
playmaker Cesc Fabregas and Liverpool captain Steven Gerrard,
last year's winner.


The award will be presented on April 22 when a United player
could win it for the first time since Ruud van Nistelrooy was
honoured by his peers in 2002.


Ronaldo, 22, or even 19-year-old Fabregas could be in for a
unique double as both are nominated for the Young Player of the
Year award category as well, alongside Wayne Rooney, the winner
the last two seasons.


Reading striker Kevin Doyle, 23, Tottenham winger Aaron Lennon,
19, and 18-year- old defender Micah Richards, of Manchester City,
who won his first England caps this season, are the other
nominees.


Most observers believe the main award is a straight fight between
Chelsea's Drogba and flying Portuguese winger Ronaldo, with the
latter the clear favourite.


Ronaldo has been in startling form this season, scoring 21 goals
from midfield as he has inspired United to top of the
Premiership, the FA Cup final and Champions League semi-finals.


But Drogba has already passed the 30-goal mark for the season as
Chelsea, who have already won the League Cup, chase an
unprecedented treble.


Scholes and Giggs have both come in for high praise in the
twighlight of the two veterans' careers as both have been
instrumental in United's success.


Gerrard has as usual been Liverpool's heart-beat this season with
Fabregas rapidly maturing at Arsenal, where he pulls the strings.


With voting among the players themselves now finished, the
winners in each category will be revealed at the end of a gala
dinner in London on Sunday night.


The PFA Fans Player of the Year, which is polled each month
across the season, will also be announced. Football supporters
will, meanwhile, get their chance to take part in a public 'Guess
The Winners' vote.

