

The United States chided Russian President Vladimir Putin's
government on Monday for cracking down on opposition
demonstrations over the weekend in the run-up to national
elections.


"We're watching this very closely," State Department spokesman
Sean McCormack said after Russian police clubbed demonstrators in
Saint Petersburg on Sunday and arrested hundreds of people during
anti-Putin protests there and in Moscow the previous day.


McCormack said a pro-government party had been allowed to hold a
demonstration in Moscow on Friday without police interference but
that Putin's opponents were prevented from doing so.


"It was clearly a peaceful protest, or a peaceful demonstration,
and people should be able to march, they should be able to
gather, they should be able to express their opinions," he said.


"There have been a series of these protests and a series of
reactions from the government," he said.


"It raises a question about whether or not those opposition
parties, those opposition figures are able to freely and
peacefully express their opinions in the context of contested
elections," he said.


The US spokesman called on Putin's government to allow forces
from all parts of the political spectrum "freely express their
point of view without threat of harassment or intimidation."


Russian police detained about 120 people in Saint Petersburg on
Sunday after clashes following a protest by The Other Russia, an
opposition coalition that accuses Putin of dismantling democracy.


The incident in Saint Petersburg followed a violent crackdown on
a similar rally by The Other Russia in Moscow on Saturday when
least 200 people were arrested, including one of the coalition's
leaders, former world chess champion Garry Kasparov. He was
released hours later.

