

Sudanese Foreign Minister Lam Akol said on Monday that Khartoum
had fully accepted the second phase of a UN plan to bolster a
peacekeeping operation in Darfur, including the deployment of
helicopter gunships.


"Sudan has accepted the second phase of the agreement of UN
support for the African force," Akol told a news conference.


He said "yes" when asked if this included the deployment of
helicopter gunships -- an issue over which Sudan had previously
expressed reservations.


"The meeting in Addis Ababa was decisive, and its results
constitute a breakthrough," said Akol of talks between the United
Nations, the African Union and Khartoum in the Ethiopian capital
on April 9.


Sudan's acceptance "opens the door to new phases," he said,
adding that the ball "is now in the UN's camp."


Akol said that Khartoum had also agreed that the chain of command
for the second phase conform to UN practices.


"We are waiting for the UN to decide the financing of this phase
so that we can ask African countries for their troop
contributions," he said.


A three-phase plan floated last year by former UN chief Kofi
Annan is supposed to culminate in the deployment of UN
peacekeepers to bolster the embattled African force in the war-
torn western Sudanese region.


Khartoum has agreed to the first two phases which mainly involve
logistical and technical support from the UN, but had previously
expressed reservations about the helicopter gunships.


Sudan has yet to give its green light to the more contentious
final phase of UN peacekeepers on the ground in Darfur.


On Thursday, UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon sought to reassure
Sudan that the helicopters to be used by peacekeepers would be
used as a deterrent and not for offensive purposes.


At least 200,000 people have been killed in Darfur and more than
two million driven from their homes, according to the United
Nations. Khartoum disputes those figures, but some sources say
the death toll is much higher.

