

Authorities in Bangladesh have arrested a second son of former
prime minister Khaleda Zia, officials said Monday, as the
military-backed interim government stepped up its anti-corruption
drive.


Military-led security forces arrested Zia's younger son, Arafat
Rahman Coco, in the capital Dhaka on Sunday evening, just a month
after Zia's influential eldest son, Tareque Rahman, was arrested
on charges of extortion.


"The joint forces have arrested him. He was arrested on the basis
of specific allegations," Shipping and Commerce Minister M.A.
Matin said.


"The national taskforce will investigate the allegations," he
added, referring to an army-led body set up to tackle graft.


While Tareque had been groomed as his mother's political
successor, Arafat has maintained a low profile. He owns several
companies and ferries that carry goods and passengers on the
delta nation's river network and was a patron of the country's
cricket board.


The military-backed government has so far arrested more than 50
top politicians since launching its anti-graft drive in February.


The interim government took power in January after the country's
president declared a state of emergency and cancelled polls
scheduled the same month following months of political turmoil.


The new government vowed to clean up politics and carry out
sweeping reforms before announcing a new date for elections. Last
week the head of the government pledged that the polls would be
held before the end of 2008.


Zia, who was prime minister until her five-year term ended in
October, has been under virtual house arrest since last week.


A source close to the former premier Monday accused the
government of trying to "blackmail" Zia into self-imposed exile
abroad.


"They arrested Arafat Rahman to blackmail her so that she leaves
the country," he told AFP on condition of anonymity.


Her aides said she had not been allowed out of her house since
last week and that only four people were allowed to meet her at
her residence.


The leading English language Daily Star newspaper said Monday
that a couple of hours before Arafat was arrested, high-ranking
security officers went to Zia's house and advised her to leave
the country.


She refused and said that she was prepared to face any
consequences, the report added.


Her political rival, Sheikh Hasina Wajed, who leads the main
opposition Awami League party, has been charged with extortion
and the murder of four political activists last October.


Police said Hasina, who is currently on holiday in the United
States, faced arrest if she returned home. Hasina, also a former
premier, has vowed to fight the charges.


Local newspapers have reported that the government is seeking to
force both Zia and Sheikh Hasina into exile in a bid to give the
country a new start.


The two women have dominated Bangladeshi politics since democracy
was reintroduced in 1991.


Many, however, have grown tired of the parties' endless feuding
and have welcomed the caretaker government's efforts to clean up
politics.


Meanwhile, authorities Monday seized all the household properties
of Zia's political secretary, Haris Chowdhury, after he was
charged with graft by the country's anti-corruption commission,
police said.


Chowdhury, who was named in the country's top 50 alleged corrupt
bigwigs, has absconded since the government launched the anti-
graft crackdown in February.

