

The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) said on
Monday it was maintaining its forecast for growth of world oil
demand in 2007 unchanged at 1.5 percent.


In its monthly report for April the 11-member exporters' group
said it was noting a drop of oil inventories in America and
Europe.


The estimates showed that world oil demand in 2007 was expected
to grow by 1.5 percent, or by 1.3 million barrels a day (bpd) to
85.44 million barrels.


In its previous report the cartel had forecast a volume of 85.48
million barrels per day, just 0.04 percent higher than the April
forecast.


"World oil demand growth in March was not as strong as in the
previous month, although oil demand picked up worldwide due to
the normal winter in North America and strong economic activities
in the Middle East," OPEC said in the report.


"World oil demand growth for 2007 is forecast at 1.3 mbd or


1.5 percent, with no major changes from the last...estimate," it
said.


The demand forecast was revised upwards for the first quarter in
north America where winter weather came late, while it has been
revised downwards overall in the OECD (Organisation for Economic
Cooperation and Development) zone, where the winter has been
mild.


Commercial stocks in the United States decreased by 4.8 million
barrels to 982 million barrels at the end of March "or seven
percent below the average for the past five years," OPEC  said.


In Europe, in the 15 countries which joined before the bloc's
2004 and 2007 enlargements along with Norway, stocks were down to
1.152 million barrels.


At its ministerial meeting in mid-March in Vienna the cartel
decided not to modify its production quotas.

