

Insurgent gunmen attacked an Iraqi army checkpoint on a road in
northern Iraq on Monday and killed 13 soldiers, army Major Qassim
Abdullah said.


"A large group of terrorists drove up in five cars and opened
fire immediately on the Al-Hadhar checkpoint, before making off,"
the commander told AFP in the northern city of Mosul.


Four soldiers were wounded in the attack, Abdullah added.


Hadhar is a remote town on a major road south of Mosul, 300
kilometres (185 miles) north of Baghdad in an area where Iraqi
security forces often clash with Sunni insurgents linked to the
Al-Qaeda network.


Separately, two university academics were gunned down in Mosul
itself.


Gunmen ambushed Talal Yunis, dean of the political sciences
faculty of Mosul University, and killed him near the campus in
the Shurat neighbourhood of northern Mosul, said police Major
Mohammed Ahmed.


Attackers also murdered Jaafar Hassan Sadeq, a professor of art
history in front of his house in the Kafaat neighbourhood in the
north the city, said Brigadier General Abdel Karim Khalaf al-
Juburi.


Academics have become a target of choice for Islamist extremists
opposed to liberal teaching in Iraq, and many hundreds have been
killed or fled the country in the chaos since the US-led invasion
of March 2003.


Adding to the bloodshed, three people were killed and six wounded
in a car bomb explosion near a police station in Al-Isakhi, a
town 100 kilometres north of Baghdad, Mosul police Captain
Mohammed Ahmed said.

