

US retailer Wal-Mart Stores has dethroned oil giant ExxonMobil
from the top position in the Fortune 500 list of America's
biggest companies, the magazine announced Monday.


The magazine said Wal-Mart saw an 11.2 percent increase in its
2006 revenues to 351.1 billion dollars, eclipsing the 347.3
billion raked in by ExxonMobil.


However, ExxonMobil's profit was more than triple that of the
retailer at 39.5 billion dollars compared to 11.3 billion.


The Fortune ranking is based on revenues. Other rankings of the
largest companies may be based on profits or stock market
capitalization. Fortune also publishes a list of the top global
companies.


Despite its struggles, General Motors held onto the number three
spot with annual revenues of 207.3 billion dollars, followed by
Chevron (200.6 billion dollars), ConocoPhillips (172.5 billion),
General Electric (168.3 billion), Ford Motor Co. (160.1 billion),
Citigroup (146.8 billion), Bank of America (117 billion) and
American International Group (113.2 billion).


The Fortune 500 companies collectively generated profits of 785
billion dollars, a 29 percent increase over 2005.


"Put simply, American companies are enjoying the most sumptuously
profitable period in the 500's 53-year history," the magazine
said. "These happy numbers are largely due to a sort of
harmonious convergence, a perfect economic calm."


The Fortune 500 lists includes 31 non-public companies and 16
mutual insurers. Twelve have a female chief executive and seven
have an African-American CEO.


The most profitable companies in 2006 were Exxon Mobil, United
Airlines parent UAL, Citigroup, Bank of America, and General
Electric.


The largest companies by market value were ExxonMobil, General
Electric, Microsoft, Citigroup, and AT&T.

