

Basque regional president Juan Jose Ibarretxe has promised to
hold a referendum on a new proposal to give the prosperous,
three-province region in northern Spain greater political
autonomy, Spanish media reported Monday.


"I give my word that this process (to create a new status) will
end with a democratic consultation," he said in a interview
published in regional Basque newspaper Diario Vasco which was
reprinted in the national press.


"The hope is to let the people speak, it is not to wait until we
see what ETA does or does not do," he added in a reference to a
possible announcement by the Basque separatist group ETA that it
will lay down its arms.


Iberretxe, reelected in June 2005 for a four-year term, said his
government would try to hold the vote before the end of the
current legislative session.


The national government, which opposes such a vote, would have to
approve the referendum.


In February 2005 Spain's national parliament overwhelmingly
rejected a Basque plan drawn up by Ibarretxe that called for
"shared sovereignty" between the northern region and the central
government.


Under the so-called "Ibarretxe Plan" -- approved by the Basque
regional assembly in December 2004 -- the Basque region would
have its own court system and send its own representatives to
international bodies such as the European Union.


No alternative to the plan has since been proposed by the Basque
regional government.


The national government then launched a peace process with ETA in
2006 that was halted in December after ETA staged a car bombing
at Madrid's airport that left two people dead.


It was the first deadly attack by ETA since May 2003. The armed
group's 38-year- old campaign for an independent Basque state
carved from northern Spain and southwestern France has claimed
over 800 lives.

