

Three armed ethnic groups from Myanmar on Monday committed
themselves to a total ban on the use of landmines in their
struggle against the country's military junta, at a ceremony in
Geneva.


The three groups -- the Lahu Democratic Front (LDF), the Palaung
State Liberation Front (PSLF) and the Pa-O People's Liberation
Organisation (PPLO) -- signed a 'deed of commitment' drawn up by
the anti-landmine NGO Geneva Call.


"Landmine use is extremely dangerous, not only for all personnel
engaged in the violent conflict, but also for the innocent local
civilians (villagers) in the conflict areas," said Hkun Okker of
the PPLO.


Geneva Call programme director Katherine Kramer said it is almost
impossible to estimate how many mines are currently used in
Myanmar owing to the complexity of the various conflicts, and the
logistical difficulties faced by aid agencies.


Under the deed of commitment, the armed groups must decommission
their stockpiles, clear mined areas and inform commanders in the
field of the change in strategy.


Geneva Call will work with local non-governmental organisations
to check on the verification of the accords, group president
Elisabeth Reusse-Decrey said.


Myanmar's government continues to manufacture and use landmines,
as do other rebel groups.


The LDF, PSLF and PPLO all said they would work to try and
persuade these other groups to also abandon landmine use, or at
least to clearly inform civilian populations when they have been
planted.

