

India's defence minister on Monday accused arch-rival Pakistan of
continuing to support cross-border terrorism in troubled Indian-
administered Kashmir.


"There is no change in Pakistan's support to cross-border
terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir," Defence Minister A.K. Antony
told a conference of top army officials in New Delhi.


"This remains a cause of concern to us," a defence ministry
statement quoted him as saying.


India accuses Pakistani-backed Islamic militants of waging an
insurgency in its sector of Kashmir and of triggering attacks in
other parts of the country. Pakistan denies it arms or trains the
militants.


India and Pakistan have fought three wars since independence in
1947, two of them over the divided Himalayan region of Kashmir.
They also massed troops on the border in 2002, after militants
attacked the Indian parliament.


They began a peace process in January 2004 focused on Kashmir and
nuclear weapons but it has moved slowly, with few major steps
except a trans-Kashmir bus service.


The insurgency in Kashmir began in 1989 and has left more than
42,000 people dead by an official count. Human rights groups put
the toll at 70,000, including 10,000 people who have disappeared
and are presumed dead.


The defence minister's remarks came ahead of a meeting between
pro-India Kashmir groups and the government, due to be held in
New Delhi on April 24 and aimed at easing tensions in the revolt-
hit state.


Muslim separatist groups who oppose Indian rule in part of
Kashmir have said they will boycott the gathering.

