

After an absence of more than 100 years, Ireland is planning to
re-introduce white-tailed sea eagles in the south-west of the
country, the environment ministry said on Monday.


Eagle chicks are to be introduced from Norway into the Killarney
National Park in County Kerry, one of the country's top tourist
attractions.


Sea eagles thrived in Ireland until the 19th century and their
legacy lives on in dozens of place-names in the area.


Talks have been underway for months with farmers and local
communities about the re-introduction plan but, while the tourist
industry has strongly backed the idea, farmers are concerned that
eagles could prey on sheep.


Batt O'Keeffe, minister of state at the environment department,
said assurances had been given to farmers and "we've now decided
to go ahead with the project".


The plan involves introducing 15 eagles a year over five years.


"We don't want to be in any dispute with farmers," O'Keeffe told
RTE state radio.


"Statistics show that in Scotland there are very few attacks
attributable to these eagles.


"In Norway, where there are 3,000 breeding pairs of eagles on
hillsides where there are 100,000 sheep, there has been
absolutely no attack attributed to the eagles over a 30-year
period."


O'Keeffe said the eagles were more scavengers than hunters and
predicted that they would lead to a "massive" increase in
visitors.


The ministry said that in Scotland, sea eagles attract thousands
of visitors and have been shown to be worth up to three million
euros (4.06 million dollars) a year to the western island of
Mull.

