

British bookmakers were taking bets Saturday on who Prince
William will marry following his reported split from girlfriend
Kate Middleton, with Britney Spears and Kylie Minogue among the
front runners.


Bookmakers William Hill were offering odds of 6-1 that the 24
-year-old prince, second in line to the throne, would tie the
knot with a female fellow army officer.


But a host of famous and infamous celebrities were not far
behind.


William Hill offered 8-1 on Tara Palmer-Tomkinson, a dippy
British socialite and friend of the family, 14-1 on Australian
pop singer Kylie Minogue and also on US party girl Hilton, the
hotel chain heiress.


Wayward singer Spears -- whom he was reported to have been
exchanging emails with in 2002 -- was priced at 20-1, British
topless model Keeley Hazell was 22-1 and gutsy Russian tennis
beauty Maria Sharapova was 33-1.


Other potential queens quoted included US singer Kelly Osbourne
and Paul McCartney's estranged wife Heather Mills, both at 100-1.


A same-sex civil ceremony was also a 100-1 shot.


William's brother Prince Harry, 22, was tipped to beat him to
getting down on one knee. William Hill said Harry was 1-2 to get
engaged first while William was 6-4.


They offered odds of 2-1 that William would get engaged between
the ages of 28 and 30, 10-1 that he would still be unmarried at
35 and 20-1 that he would become king as a single man.


William Hill said they had expected to pay out over 50,000 pounds
(75,000 euros, 100,000 dollars) if William married Middleton.


But British media reported Saturday that the love affair was
over.


"We are as shocked as everyone else, if rather more relieved than
most as we were preparing to pay out over 50,000 pounds to
punters who had backed the couple to wed," said William Hill
spokesman Rupert Adams.

