

Mohammad Yousuf said on Saturday that he was willing to succeed
Inzamam-ul-Haq as Pakistan skipper, one of the most unforgiving
jobs in world cricket.


Though the batsman has not yet been offered the post, he would be
one of the leading candidates, along with Shoaib Malik, after
current vice-captain Younis Khan turned down the job on Friday.


"The Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) has not contacted me but I have
no problem leading the team," Yousuf told www.cricinfo.com.


"I don't see any kind of pressure in the job. I think I'm a
worthy candidate as in the last year I have really proven myself.
It has always been an honour to represent Pakistan and it would
be a real pleasure to lead the team at this difficult time."


Yousuf has captained Pakistan in three Tests, winning one against
South Africa at Lahore and losing the other two to Australia in
2004-05 at Melbourne and Sydney.


Until Younis Khan took over as vice-captain, Yousuf had held the
post since the 2003 World Cup.


"I'm a senior player now and I have previous leadership
experience," Yousuf said.


"We won that Test against South Africa and in Australia as
captain, I made a hundred. And before that, I was vice-captain so
I am confident I can do the job justice."


Yousuf said there needs to be a quick decision on the captaincy
to help restore confidence to a team which is still suffering
from the double shock of Bob Woolmer's murder and their first
round World Cup elimination.


"Whoever is selected, it should be done soon. Ideally, a good
step would be to appoint an experienced player and allow him to
groom a youngster for the role," said Yousuf, one of the Wisden's
Cricketers of the Year in 2006.


"In the past, in Pakistan sides, there have always been many ex-
captains or players who wanted to lead and that hurt the team.
That has to be avoided this time."

