

At least 27 people died Saturday and many more were missing after
flash floods swept over two waterfalls in southern Thailand as
revellers celebrated the Buddhist New Year, officials said.


The tragedy took place at the Sairung and Prai Sawan waterfalls
-- where swimmers were taking advantage of the five-day holiday
weekend -- in Trang province, some 700 kilometres (435 miles)
south of the capital Bangkok.


"Many people were swimming when flash floods swept over the
waterfalls. The floods came so quickly. It happened in just 10
minutes," said a local disaster prevention official, who declined
to be named.


"At least 27 people were killed and a large number of people were
still missing," the official said, adding he was unable to give
an exact number of those unaccounted for.


When the flash floods struck the waterfalls, which are about five
kilometres apart, there were some 100 holidaymakers at the
popular sites, he said.


The weekend crowd was bigger than usual due to the Buddhist New
Year holiday, which began on Friday, the official added.


"People were enjoying and relaxing at the waterfalls and they
were totally caught off-guard by the floods," the official said.


Hundreds of rescue workers, including military personnel, local
police and volunteers, were mobilised to hunt for the missing and
to help survivors, a senior provincial official said.


"We are continuing our search and rescue operations," he said.


Most of the victims were women and children, a local hospital
official said.


Several injured tourists were stranded on rocks and trees waiting
for rescue workers, The Nation, an English-language daily,
reported on its website.


The area had been hit by heavy rains since Thursday, local
reports said.

