

Serbian second seed Jelena Jankovic advanced to the final of a
1.34 million- dollar WTA clay court tournament here Friday by
defeating Venus Williams 3-6, 6-3, 7-6 (7/5).


Jankovic will play Sunday for the top prize of 196,900 dollars
against the winner of a later semi-final between two Russians,
fourth seed Dinara Safina and Vera Zvonareva.


Jankovic won three points in a row, two on Williams' serve, for a
4-2 lead in the tie-breaker, only to have Williams win the next
three to reclaim the lead.


But Williams sent a backhand volley beyond the baseline and
Jankovic followed with a pair of winners, claiming the match with
a forehand down the line but only after the chair umpire checked
the mark and called the ball good.


Williams, ranked 29th in the world, won the final four games of
the opening set, breaking ninth-ranked Jankovic in the sixth and
eighth games and holding serve to claim the first set on a
124-mph service winner.


The rivals traded six service breaks in the first six games of
the second set before Jankovic held, broke Williams in the eighth
game and held to force a third set.


Jankovic, 22, squandered four break-point chances in the third
game of the last set. The Serbian, who has a tour-high 27 match
triumphs this year, broke in the seventh game but Williams broke
back to level at 4-4 on the way to the decisive tie-breaker.


Williams, a five-time Grand Slam champion, missed most of last
year with a left wrist injury, but the 26-year-old American has
been impressive this year with a 14-3 record and a title in
February at Memphis.

