

Syria on Saturday rejected statements by a Syrian-American
businessman who said that he had been at the heart of unofficial
peace talks with Israel, the official SANA agency quoted a
foreign ministry official as saying.


"The statements and the ideas of the American-Syrian Ibrahim
Suleiman do not reflect the point of view of Syria, which has
repeated many times its refusal to undertake secret negotiations"
with Israel, the official was quoted as saying.


Suleiman on Thursday told a top Israeli parliamentary panel that
Syria and Israel could clinch a peace deal in six months.


"Like everyone else who proposed playing a role in the peace
process, Mr Suleiman heard Syria's position which rejects secret
negotiations," the official said.


Suleiman and former Israeli foreign ministry director general
Alon Liel say they headed two years of the secret talks during
which understandings were reached for a peace treaty between
Syria and Israel.


Suleiman, 60, was at the centre of the official peace talks
between Israel and Syria which began following the Madrid peace
summit, including the 1996 US- sponsored talks at Wye Plantation
and later in 2000 in Shepherdstown.


During those talks, Suleiman said on Thursday, "the sides solved
80 percent of disagreements."


He said that he and Liel had succeeded in further narrowing the
gap between the sides, and that their talks should be replaced by
official negotiations.


"Our work is done, now it's up to officials in Israel and Syria
to sit down and iron out their differences," the US businessman
said. "We gave them a peace map."


Syria's "President Bashar al-Assad wants peace with Israel. He
wants to make peace and be known as the man of peace," Suleiman
said.

