

The row regarding the use of customer cars will rumble on to next
month's Spanish Grand Prix after extensive talks involving team
principals and Formula One chief Bernie Ecclestone on Saturday
proved fruitless.


The argument has revolved around Spyker's belief that Super Aguri
and Scuderia Toro Rosso should not score constructors'
championship points as they do not believe they are constructors.


The Spyker team believe that both teams should not be classified
as constructors but simply entrants as they are using copy cat
cars' from their parent sides Honda and Red Bull Racing.


The argument has seen Spyker bring about an arbitration claim
against the Honda powered Super Aguri team and Toro Rosso.


One proposal Ecclestone had suggested in the meeting including
sharing television revenue between all 12 teams rather than the
current ten, however this did not receive full backing and no
agreement on how to move the situation forward was reached.


The Spanish Grand Prix, scheduled for May 13 will now provide
Ecclestone with more time to come up with a solution to the
matter that has so far blighted the start of the season.


Although Spyker team principal Colin Kolles came out of the talks
satisfied with the way negotiations appeared to be progressing
and that his teams claim has been discussed.


"I don't think we are closer to sorting the situation out, but we
will see what proposal Bernie comes up with," said Kolles. "But
one thing is for sure - we will go to the end to make sure it is
sorted.


"I think at least everyone now realises that there is an issue. I
have to protect our company and obviously now the wheels are in
motion."

