

US Deputy Secretary of State John Negroponte visited refugee
camps in the war- torn region of Darfur on Saturday as part of
his mission to urge Sudan to allow the deployment of a hybrid UN-
African Union peacekeeping force.


Negroponte inspected camps near Al-Fasher, the capital of North
Darfur province, and is expected to meet local authorities,
members of the AU mission, and humanitarian workers, Sudanese
radio reported.


The second-ranked US diplomat is in the region to learn more
about the situation before he meets Sudanese officials on Sunday,
the state-run Radio Omdurman said.


Following initial talks with officials after his arrival on
Thursday, Negroponte stressed the need for the rapid deployment
of international forces in Darfur.


He is pressing Khartoum to accept a hybrid peacekeeping force of
United Nations and AU forces to stem violence that has steadily
escalated since the Darfur conflict erupted in 2003.


Negroponte's visit comes after the United States held off on a
decision to impose unilateral sanctions against Sudan to give UN
chief Ban Ki-moon a last chance to convince Khartoum to allow UN
peacekeepers into Darfur.


Ban on April 2 asked for an additional two to four weeks to
pressure Sudan's opposition to the UN's planned deployment of a
joint force of some 20,000 troops to Darfur before turning to
sanctions.


On Monday, after talks involving UN, AU and Sudanese government
officials in Addis Ababa over a three-stage plan for
international peacekeeping in Darfur, Sudan agreed to allow the
UN to start sending reinforcements to the AU troops.


Under the phased plan, roughly 2,300 UN troops will be deployed
in Darfur to bolster the 7,000 under-equipped AU troops who have
failed to stem the bloodshed.


Some 200,000 people have been killed in Darfur and more than two
million driven from their homes, according to the United Nations.
The Khartoum government disputes those figures, but some sources
say the death toll is much higher.

