

Italy's President Giorgio Napolitano on Saturday urged Prime
Minister Romano Prodi's government to act fast to improve
employment safety conditions, following six work-related deaths
in 48 hours.


"It is necessary that the government... specify without delay the
means needed to strengthen (labour) inspections and controls," he
said.


A 55-year-old worker died on Saturday in Messina, Sicily, after
falling off a ladder, and a 33-year-old factory worker was killed
on the same day when a steel tube fell on him in Sarroch,
Sardinia, the Italian media reported.


On Friday, four other people were killed in work-related
accidents, including a 40-year-old dock worker in the port of
Genoa who was crushed to death when a two-tonne package fell on
him from eight metres (26 feet).


The accidents prompted a one-day strike by Italian dock workers
on Saturday during which their unions called for "effective
security measures and serious inspections so that they are
applied".


Prodi's centre-left government pledged on Friday to push for a
new work security law in response to the accidents, which made
front-page news.


According to numbers from the National Insurance Institute for
Employment Injuries, 1,280 people were killed in such accidents
last year, compared to 1,255 in 2005.


An association for those suffering from work-related injuries
says there have been some 200,000 such deaths since 1950 and that
Italy's numbers are among the highest in Europe.


The group called for "immediate and concrete" actions to improve
work security.

