

Chicago was named the US candidate city for the 2016 Summer
Olympics, defeating co-finalist Los Angeles in voting by the US
Olympic Committee (USOC) Board of Directors here Saturday.


The 11-member panel's decision came five months before final bids
are due to be submitted to the International Olympic Committee,
which will decide upon the host for the 2016 Olympics in October
of 2009.


Tokyo, Rio de Janiero and Prague have already announced rival
bids and other cities are expected to join the chase.


"Let's remember the race is just beginning and this will be a
long and difficult process," said USOC international vice
president Bob Ctvrtlik, the chairman of the USOC candidate
evaluation committee.


"I assure you this will be the best prepared bid in the history
of the United States."


USOC chairman of the board Peter Ueberroth, who masterminded the
staging of the 1984 Los Angeles Olympics, announced the decision
to officials from both bid groups after each made a final
presentation to the board earlier Saturday.


Ueberroth said the USOC wants the 2016 Olympics to help boost the
US role in the global Olympic movement.


"We wanted to re-establish the United States in the international
Olympic movement," Ueberroth said. "We've lost our pace over
time."


The next Summer Olympics will be staged next year in Beijing
while the 2012 Olympics have already been awarded to London.


Los Angeles hosted the 1932 and 1984 Olympics while the city of
Chicago has never hosted an Olympics.


The United States last hosted the Summer Games in 1996 when the
Centennial Olympics were staged in Atlanta. The 2002 Winter
Olympics were staged in Salt Lake City, Utah.


Houston, Philadelphia and San Francisco were eliminated earlier
in the US 2016 bid candidacy process.

