

China urged patience with North Korea Saturday, saying it could
take "a couple of more days" for Pyongyang to begin fulfilling a
February agreement to shut down its Yongbyon nuclear plant, US
envoy Christopher Hill said.


"The Chinese wanted us to show patience for a couple of more
days," Hill told journalists following meetings with his Chinese
counterpart Wu Dawei.


"They said the lines of communication were open... if it is going
to get resolved it certainly should be able to get resolved very
soon."


North Korea has refused to shut down its nuclear power plant as
called for in the February agreement until US sanctions that held
up about 25 million dollars of its funds in a Macao bank were
lifted and the funds unfrozen.


The agreement called for North Korea to shut down its nuclear
plant by Saturday, in exchange for fuel oil and future diplomatic
recognition.


Hill said Beijing and Pyongyang had been in consultations, and
that the Stalinist regime was aware that the money was available
to it.


"North Korea understands the fact that their accounts, these
funds are accessible to them," Hill said.


He said that if North Korea follows through and shuts down the
plant and invites UN inspectors to monitor the nuclear facility,
then it was likely the six-party process would resume this month.


"We need to talk to all the parties, my understanding is to
expect a six-party meeting in April," Hill said.


China, the two Koreas, the United States, Japan and Russia have
been discussing ways to get North Korea to end its nuclear
programmes since 2003. Since then, the Stalinist regime has
tested a nuclear bomb and several ballistic missiles.

