

New Zealand bounced back from their defeat against Sri Lanka when
they restricted South Africa to 193 for seven in their World Cup
Super Eights match at the Grenada National Stadium Saturday.


New Zealand took full advantage of winning the toss and sending
South Africa in to bat on an overcast day in conditions which
helped their seam bowlers.


South Africa made a bad start, losing their first two wickets for
three runs, and never recovered despite a restrained innings of
60 by Herschelle Gibbs, who shared stands of 49 with Jacques
Kallis (22) and 76 with Ashwell Prince (37).


The tone was set by New Zealand opening bowlers James Franklin
and Shane Bond, who both took an early wicket and were mainly
responsible for South Africa scoring only 13 runs in the first 12
overs.


Bond finished with two for 26 in ten overs, while left-armer
Franklin took one for 16 in seven.


Medium-pacer Craig McMillan was the most successful bowler,
however, taking three for 23.


McMillan took the key wicket of Gibbs, who was bowled by a ball
which deflected off an inside edge and his right thigh and
followed up by dismissing Prince and Mark Boucher, both caught in
the deep as they tried to lift the scoring rate.


New Zealand lost by six wickets in a one-sided contest against
Sri Lanka when they were in early trouble after deciding to bat
first.


For South Africa, the innings was a contrast to their free-
scoring display when they hammered 356 for four against the West
Indies at the same ground Tuesday.


After pounding 14 sixes and 24 fours against the West Indies,
South Africa were restricted to 11 boundary hits Saturday - three
sixes and eight fours - as they struggled to make clean contact
against disciplined bowling on a slow pitch.

