

The Ugandan government and the rebel Lord's Resistance Army (LRA)
on Saturday renewed their ceasefire and agreed to resume peace
talks to end a brutal, two- decade insurgency in the country's
northern region, officials said.


Deputy Defence Minister Ruth Nankabirwa said the peace
negotiations, which collapsed in December due to mutual distrust,
"will resume on the 26th of April" in Juba, the southern Sudanese
capital.


"They agreed on the truce but I don't know the duration," she
added.


The agreement was reached during a meeting attended by the UN
special envoy to the conflict, Joaquim Chissano, and delegations
from the Ugandan government, southern Sudan and the LRA,
Nankabirwa said.


The rebels are to assemble in Ri-Kwangba, near the Sudanese
border with the Democratic Republic of Congo, instead of in two
neutral camps as called for by the earlier ceasefire.


The talks in Juba stalled in December when the rebels walked out
saying they feared for their lives. They also demanded a new
venue and new mediators, accusing the southern Sudanese
government of bias.


LRA supremo Joseph Kony, his deputy Vincent Otti and three other
commanders have been indicted by the International Criminal Court
for crimes against humanity -- specifically for murder, rape,
mutilations and mass abductions.


The conflict has raged since 1988, when the elusive Kony took
leadership of a two-year-old regional rebellion among northern
Uganda's ethnic Acholi minority.


Renewed peace talks are seen as the best chance yet to end a
conflict that has spawned what the UN and relief agencies have
described as one of the most neglected humanitarian crises in the
world.

