

Two Egyptians jailed for suspected "terror" links have been
released, media reports said, two months after Canada's top court
quashed the extraordinary security measures that permitted their
detention.


Mahmud Jaballah, jailed since 2001, was released Friday and
placed under house arrest, the daily Globe and Mail said
Saturday.


"Nobody's allowed to visit the house unless they're preapproved,"
said his son, Ahmed. "They're going to be installing video
surveillance cameras at the front and back entrances. So it's
strict."


Another Egyptian, Mohammed Mahjub, who had been jailed in Canada
since 2000, was set free Thursday on the condition that he wear
an electronic surveillance bracelet and remain in Toronto with
his wife.


The two had been detained under Canada's so-called "security
certificates" which allowed Ottawa to detain foreigners suspected
of terror ties without charges for many years.


The controversial security certificates, which permit secret
court hearings, undisclosed evidence and indefinite
incarceration, have been enshrined in Canada's immigration act
since 1978.


The procedures were found to breach constitutional rights and
were overturned by the high court, though they were to remain in
place for one year to give parliament a chance to amend them.


Since the September 11, 2001, attacks on the United States, they
were used to jail five suspected Al-Qaeda sleeper agents.


The release of the Egyptian pair means only one of these
suspects, a Syrian named Hassan Almrei, remains in Canadian
custody. The other two were released in February under similarly
strict conditions.


Jaballah was arrested in 2001 in Toronto and accused of belonging
to an Egyptian group with alleged links to Al-Qaeda. He refused
to be deported, saying he would face torture in Egypt.


Mahjub had been in jail since 2000. Canadian intelligence alleged
he was a leader of an Al-Qaeda-linked Islamist group and was
taking part in "terrorist" activities.

