

Armenian President Robert Kocharian and President Hosni Mubarak
discussed Iran's controversial nuclear programme in Cairo on
Saturday, the presidential spokesman said.


"Their talks covered the Iranian nuclear issue, developments in
the region and the Gulf. Armenia is particularly interested in
the nuclear file since it shares its southern frontier with
Iran," Suleiman Awad told journalists.


Iran says its uranium enrichment programme is for peaceful
civilian purposes, but Western states suspect it may be used to
develop a nuclear bomb, and have slapped sanctions on Tehran in a
bid to get it to halt the project.


"Iraq also featured in the discussions, which covered regional
problems in Central Asia, particularly the conflict between
Armenia and Azerbaijan over Nagorno-Karabakh," Awad said.


During Kocharian's three-day visit, the interior ministers of
both countries are expected to sign accords on organised crime,
judicial cooperation and customs.


On Sunday, Kocharian will meet the Grand Sheikh of Al-Azhar,
Mohammed Sayyed Tantawi, one of the most prominent figures in
Sunni Islam.


Once home to a massive Armenian community, Egypt has close
historical ties with Armenia -- in 1878, Armenian Nubar Pasha
became the country's first prime minister.


In the 1940s some 40,000 Armenians lived in Egypt, mostly in
Cairo and Alexandria, although many left in the 1960s with the
rise of Egyptian nationalism and more socialist laws that hit
Armenian businesses.


Today some 8,000 people of Armenian origin live in Egypt,
according to the community's website.

