

Doctors on Saturday ruled out any brain injury for the governor
of the northeastern US state of New Jersey after a serious car
crash in which he was apparently not wearing a seat belt.


Governor Jon Corzine was in critical but stable condition after
sustaining chest injuries, multiple rib fractures and a leg
fracture when his sports utility vehicle, driven by a New Jersey
state trooper, slammed into a guardrail on Thursday, doctors
said.


Corzine, 60, was heavily sedated and on a breathing ventilator
after surgery but was able to gesture his answers to simple yes
and no questions, said Dr. Steven Ross, head of trauma at Cooper
University Hospital.


A brain scan "was negative for any sign of injury," Ross told a
news conference.


"However he is not really aware of what is going on or aware of
his surroundings. He won't remember much," Ross said.


Corzine broke his thigh bone in two places as well several ribs
and his collar bone and faced more surgery on Monday, Ross said.


"He is doing much better than any of us would have expected,"
Ross said.


Dr. Robert Ostrum said Corzine's six-inch (15-centimeter) leg
wound was the doctor's primary concern.


"With a wound the size that it is, and the amount of
contamination, he still has a risk of infection," Ostrum said.


State police said Corzine's vehicle swerved to avoid another
driver and hit the guardrail. The driver and an aide to Corzine
who was riding in the car were also injured.


Corzine's spokesman admitted on Friday that the governor was
probably not obeying state law -- that drivers and passengers
must buckle their seats belts while riding in cars -- when the
crash occurred.


The violation carries a 46 dollar fine, officials said.


New Jersey state senate president Richard Codey is serving as
acting governor in Corzine's absence.

