

The bodies of three sailors who died when a Norwegian oil rig
support vessel capsized off northern Scotland are to be
repatriated on Sunday, a spokesman for the boat's operator said.


"The responsibility now for the three deaths has moved to the
Norwegian authorities and the Norwegian police," Bourbon Offshore
Norway's marketing director Trond Myklebust told a news
conference late Saturday on the remote Shetland Isles.


"It means that now, as we speak, during the night, the bodies
will be transferred to Shetland and further to Norway for
identification tomorrow (Sunday)."


The Bourbon Dolphin overturned about 75 nautical miles (140
kilometres) west of the remote north Shetlands near the
Transocean Rather oil platform at about 5:00 pm (1600 GMT)
Thursday.


Ten of the 15 people on board were initially rescued but three
were pronounced dead. The search for the missing five was called
off on Friday.


Fourteen of the 15 were Norwegian nationals and one was Danish.
It is thought that a man and his 15-year-old son, who was on work
experience from a school in Heroy, west Norway, are among the
missing.


Myklebust told a news conference in Lerwick that salvage of the
ship would begin on Sunday and it would be towed to Shetland. The
operation would take "days", he added.


"The most important thing is that we keep the boat afloat so that
we are able to find the people inside. It's very important for
the relatives later on," he added.


Family of the crew were to hold a memorial service on Shetland
Sunday and then fly to the spot where the boat overturned.


Myklebust said Bourbon operated "hundreds" of similar vessels
around the world and there were no plans to withdraw them from
service.


But they would review the situation once the results of the
investigation into why the boat, which was only about one year
old, capsized, he added.

