

Stephen Hunt scored the winner in Reading's 1-0 victory over
Fulham here on Saturday giving Northern Ireland manager Lawrie
Sanchez a losing debut.


Fulham manager Chris Coleman was sacked in midweek and now
Sanchez, at the helm till the end of the season, has the task of
making sure the London club avoids relegation.


As Northern Ireland manager, Sanchez had good results against
Sven-Goran Eriksson's England and Spain however Reading, still on
course for a place in Europe, proved too much for his new side.


Sanchez is a Reading old boy and then went on to play for
Wimbledon, scoring the winning goal in the 1988 FA Cup final in a
1-0 victory against overwhelming favourites Liverpool.


His tenure at Craven Cottage is for only five Premiership games
and it will have been noted that chances not taken and poor
organisation at the back were reasons for being on the losing
side.


Hunt scored the winner on 15 minutes from close in after an
accurate cross from Kevin Doyle on the right.


Reading were trying hard to make the most of Fulham's weakness on
their left- hand side. Franck Queudrue lost possession to
Reading's Seol Ki-Hyeon who fed Brynjar Gunnarsson and his shot
was tipped over the bar by Fulham keeper Antti Niemi.


Hunt, having a great first half, kept Niemi on his toes with two
more volleyed attempts which went wide on each occasion. Reading
even had a minor penalty appeal when Michael Brown looked as
though he might have handled in the area.


Seol fired the ball over the bar shortly after the break and
Fulham had another penalty appeal when Wayne Routledge hit the
deck in the area but the visitors were generally having a hard
time breaking down the hosts.


Late on Doyle found the net but the score was ruled out for
offside and Fulham's Brown hit the bar in injury time.

