

An act of comradship by America's Cup defender Alinghi has saved
one of the challenger's to the Swiss team's crown from having to
quit the Louis Vuitton Cup.


Italy's +39 looked to be heading home prematurely after a clash
with the German boat United Internet Team in last week's regatta
left them with a broken mast.


But their bid for yachting's most cherished prize was saved when
Alinghi offered them a spare mast enabling them to continue vital
training in the run up to the start of the Louis Vuitton Cup here
on Monday.


+39's British skipper Iain Percy recounted on Saturday: "If it
hadn't been for Alinghi lending us a mast we wouldn't be in the
water."


Percy said the drama, far from dispiriting his crew, had only
deepened their resolve.


"This problem seemed like an impossible one to solve but here we
are a week later in a position to give it our best shot.


"Every time we've had something go wrong the team's bounced back
stronger, there's such a great feeling amongst the crew."


But he said the effort of 14 people working round the clock to
repair it had taken its toll.


"Most of our guys haven't slept in their beds for the past week.
Everyone's been lying on concrete and I've been greeted by a
bunch of bleary eyes in the mornings."


He added: "The broken mast was in three pieces, it's now in only
two so I guess that's progress - I just don't want strong winds
the first time we sail with it!"


The team opens the Round Robin stage of the Louis Vuitton Cup
fought out by the 11 challengers hoping to get a shot at taking
on Alinghi in the America's Cup itself in June against France's
Areva Challenge and Spain's Desafio Espanol on Monday.

