

Under-fire World Bank president Paul Wolfowitz on Tuesday hailed
unanimous support from the bank's board for his campaign against
corruption, and played down tensions over the policy.


Speaking to reporters, he said a watered-down strategy paper to
fight graft in the bank's lending to poorer countries had been
given full backing by national directors on the board.


"We've had several engagements of the board on this paper. We had
clear unanimity, there's no question about it," said Wolfowitz,
who has been attacked for focusing more on corruption than on
global development.


The former deputy Pentagon chief stressed: "We now have a
framework to help the bank ... to help the poor escape poverty."


Leaked minutes from a January board meeting showed the national
representatives in open revolt against Wolfowitz, who was
controversially nominated two years ago by the US government to
succeed James Wolfensohn.


Wolfowitz already had to alter his contentious anti-corruption
drive after a chorus of criticism from both rich and poor nations
at the bank's annual meeting, in Singapore, in September.


Details of the new campaign are yet to be fleshed out, but the
strategy emphasizes the need to engage more with civil society,
the private sector and the media in the World Bank's client
countries.


However, Wolfowitz has been forced to backtrack from initial
plans to bypass national governments more, in a bid to ensure
that aid gets to the deserving.


"We have to get involved. But in getting involved, we bring
money, but we also need to work with governments to improve
governance," he said.


And he insisted that some of the most vocal critics of the
strategy, such as Britain, did not disagree with its general aim
to quell corruption.


"We've had frankly consistent support from the UK on the matter
of governance," he said.

