

Russian homosexual activists said on Tuesday they remained intent
on organising a Gay Pride march in Moscow in May despite harsh
opposition from the city and religious groups.


"No protest nor threat will stop us. We will organise our
demonstration at any cost," one of the parade organisers, Nikolai
Alexeev, told AFP.


"If it is banned as it was last year we will again appeal to the
European court about this violation of our constitutional
rights," he added.


The Gay Pride organisers filed a suit with the European Court of
Human Rights at the end of January, claiming Moscow's ban on
their parade was a violation of their right to peaceful assembly.


Tuesday's announcement sparked outrage within the Orthodox Church
and other religious groups in Russia, where homosexuality
remained illegal until 1993.


"The public propaganda around the homosexual way of life has been
rejected by our society and provokes repulsion and protests," a
spokesperson for Patriarch Vsevolod Chapline told the Ria-Novosti
news agency.


"The authorities should listen more to public opinion than to a
loud and propagandist group of homosexuals," he added.


Borukh Gorine, the spokesman for Russia's Jewish federation,
FEOR, meanwhile insisted that "such a demonstration was
unsuitable not only in Moscow but in any other place in the
world."


The Russian Buddhists were also "against this demonstration," a
spokesperson told Ria-Novosti, while the vice president of the
Muslim Mufti council, Damir Guizatuline, called on Moscow's mayor
to "take all the measures needed to stop" the demonstration.


Mayor Yuri Lujkov meanwhile vowed to repeat a 2006 ban on the
march in the Russian capital, calling Gay Pride "the work of
Satan."


At last year's parade, which went ahead in defiance of the ban,
more than 100 people were arrested and dozens of gay rights
campaigners were attacked by skinheads shouting "Moscow is not
Sodom."

