

The makers of Ribena have admitted advertising claims about the
popular blackcurrant drink's vitamin content "may have misled
customers", Australia's consumer watchdog said Wednesday.


The Australian Consumer and Competition Commission (ACCC) said
GlaxoSmithKline Australia had "self-reported" discrepancies in
claims about vitamin C levels in its Ribena Ready to Drink fruit
beverage.


It said the the drink contained significantly less vitamin C than
claimed on the nutritional information on its packaging and the
implication it had four times the vitamin C of comparable orange
juice products was incorrect.


The ACCC said GlaxoSmithKline Australia had agreed to stop making
claims about the vitamin C content of the product that could not
be backed by validated testing methods.


It also agreed to publish notices in retail outlets and on
websites advising customers of the allegedly misleading claims,
as well as publishing an article in an industry journal on the
importance of accuracy when making claims to consumers.


"It is extremely important that companies use appropriate
calculation methods when making claims about the contents of food
or beverage products, especially when they relate to nutrition,"
ACCC chairman Graeme Samuel said.


New Zealand's Commerce Commission launched court action against
GlaxoSmithKline late last year over similar claims about Ribena's
vitamin content.


The company withdrew a drink called Ribena ToothKind in Britain
in 2000 after claims that it did not encourage tooth decay were
proved false.

