

The skeleton of a Siberian mammoth dating back some 15,000 years
and a meteorite from Russia go on auction in Paris next month in
the first such sale of curiosities from paleontogy, Christie's
auction house said Tuesday.


The skeletons of a woolly rhinoceros and of a cave bear along
with rare bird and fish fossils are also to go under the hammer
during the April 16 auction in Paris.


The complete skeleton of the mammoth, with its impressive tusks,
stands at 3.8 metres (12.5 feet) and measures over 4.8 metres in
length. Its estimated value is between 150,000 euros (199,400
dollars) and 180,000 euros.


The skeleton of the woolly rhinoceros, from 10,000 years ago, is
expected to fetch up to 65,000 euros while the bear is valued at
between 20,000 and 25,000 euros.


A 150-kilogramme (331-pound) meteorite from Russia containing
semi-precious stones and showing rare marks of its entry into the
atmosphere is up for grabs, valued at between 90,000 and 120,000
euros.


Also from Russia at the Christie's auction will be a private
collection of trilobites, or fossils of arthropods, dating from
400 million years ago.


The fossil of an angel fish dating back 50 million years and one
of only five known examples of the species in the world will be
offered for sale for some 50,000 to 80,000 euros.


It is the last such fossil in private hands, from the collection
of veterinarian Jean Bouhanna.


A rare bezoar, a pearl that forms in the stomach of certain
herbivores, valued at up to 25,000 euros also goes under the
hammer.

