

Tourism is both villain and victim when it comes to climate
change the head of the World Tourist Organisation (WTO) said on
Tuesday.


Major growth in air traffic "is a vector of (climactic) change
under way," WTO director general Francesco Frangialli told an
international conference on meteorology in Madrid.


Latest WTO figures show that a record 842 million people
travelled abroad in 2006 and 40 percent of them travelled by air,
contributing to the greenhouse effect.


But tourism also suffered from the effects of climate change,
Frangialli said.


The economies of coastal regions and small tropical islands, such
as the Maldives, heavily dependent on tourist receipts are now
threatened by rising ocean levels and temperatures, he added.


Creeping desertification in semi-desert zones in Africa amid
increasing prevalence of drought will also hit the poorest regons
who also see tourism as a major earner, the head of the UN's
tourism agency said.


In western countries, winter sports tourism is suffering as
temperatures rise, with many medium altitude resorts short of
snow, Frangialli noted.


"Inaction" as the developed world seeks to cut emissions "would
have a tragic effect on tourism," Frangialli warned.


The WTO has backed an EU proposal to include air travel by 2011
or 2012 in forcing through limitations on emissions and creating
transferable carbon accounts in a bid to limit the greenhouse
effect.


Such measures would encourage airlines to put pressure on
manufacturers to produce aircraft which are more fuel-efficient,
Frangialli said.

