

The dollar failed to take advantage of a report showing a better-
than-expected US housing market as traders geared up for the
outcome of a two-day Federal Reserve meeting.


The euro drifted up to 1.3307 dollars at 2000 GMT after 1.3300
late Monday in New York.


The dollar meanwhile fell to 117.22 yen, down from 117.41.


Analysts said trading was cautious on Tuesday ahead of a US
interest rate decision Wednesday, with the positive data on
housing starts largely ignored.


Federal Reserve policymakers met in Washington for a two-day
meeting which started Tuesday. Most economists expect the central
bank to keep its short-term interest rate pegged at 5.25 percent.


John Kicklighter at Forex Capital Markets said the Fed statement
could tip its hand on the next move on monetary policy -- cutting
rates to stimulate a lagging economy or raising rates to keep a
lid on inflation.


"As consumers and economists worry about the pervasiveness of
rising default rates among distressed mortgages, they will look
for some kind of reassurance from the monetary policy board,"
Kicklighter said.


"Perhaps an acknowledgement of the volatility in the sub-prime
sector and a shift to more neutral rhetoric will satisfy
worriers. On the other hand, considering the acceleration in the
consumer inflation gauges last week, it may be asking for too
much."


The Commerce Department data showed that US housing starts
rebounded with a surprisingly strong 9.0 percent jump in February
after a big slump in the prior month.


The report showed housing starts at an annualized pace of 1.525
million, well ahead of Wall Street forecasts of 1.445 million and
defying expectations of a further slide in the troubled real
estate market.


In late New York trade, the dollar stood at 1.2122 Swiss francs
from 1.2118 Monday.


The pound was being traded at 1.9605 dollars after 1.9446.

