

Zambian President Levy Mwanawasa began a five-day state visit to
neighbouring Namibia on Tuesday, his first to the southwest
African country since he was elected head of state in 2001.


Mwanawasa, who will be guest of honour at independence day
celebrations Wednesday, held talks in the capital Windhoek with
his counterpart Hifikepunye Pohamba which covered transport,
energy and customs.


"We should place emphasis on our joint efforts to promote
economic growth and sustainable development and... implement
agreements between our countries," Pohamba said after their
bilateral talks.


Joint infrastructure projects including the Katima Mulilo-Sesheke
bridge across the Zambezi river had helped bring about a sharp
rise in exchanges of goods and people between the two countries
since 2004, Pohamba added.


Mwanawasa said he wanted to see a speed-up of construction work
of a transport corrider leading from the Namibian port of Walvis
Bay to Lubumbashi in the Democratic Republic of Congo, via the
town of Ndola in Zambia's Copperbelt region.


"I propose a high-level tripartite meeting including the DRC to
speed matters up," Mwanawasa said.


"My government has started to construct a one-stop border post at
Sesheke on our side of the bridge and we hope that Namibia will
also do so in order to reach completion at year-end," the Zambian
president added.


Two bilateral agreements were signed at the end of the talks, one
for a dry port facility for Zambia at Namibia's Walvis Bay
harbour and one for political consultations.


On Wednesday, Mwanawasa will fly to the coastal town of
Swakopmund, where he will join with Pohamba for the main
celebrations to mark the 17th anniversary of Namibia's
independence as well as visit a fishing factory.

