

US authorities Tuesday gave tentative approval for a new airline
called Virgin America to get off the ground, saying the carrier
appears to meet the test for US ownership.


The announcement by the Department of Transportation marked a
reversal from a decision in December, when the agency said the
airline was not under the control of US citizens.


In a statement, the DOT said Virgin America's plan to reconfigure
its ownership and management structure "puts it back on track to
meet strict US citizenship tests under federal law."


The upstart low-cost airline, which has licensed the "Virgin"
brand from Britain's Virgin Group, has long argued that it is
independent from the companies headed by Richard Branson who
founded Virgin Atlantic, and a host of other Virgin-branded
firms.


The department gave tentative approval to Virgin America's plans
to begin US operations but said the carrier would have to
complete its organizational changes, amend various agreements,
and notify the agency if it gets additional loans from non-US
investors.


The agency said Virgin America had offered to replace its current
chief executive officer, "whose longstanding association with
foreign investors had raised concerns about who would control the
new carrier."


The CEO named by the group last year was former airline executive
Fred Reid, a US citizen.


Other proposed reforms called for removing the Virgin Group's
veto power over certain contracts and expenditures, amending loan
agreements with the Virgin Group, and restructuring its board of
directors.


US officials had rejected the first application claiming Virgin
America failed to meet the test of showing it was controlled by
US citizens, with at least 75 percent of the voting interest in
American hands.

