

French-speaking Quebec is the largest of Canada's 10 provinces,
geographically. On Monday (March 26), its residents will vote to
elect a new government.


CAPITAL: Quebec City, the oldest permanent francophone, or
French-speaking, settlement in North America, is poised to
celebrate its 400th anniversary next year. The city was founded
by French explorer Samuel de Champlain in 1608.


GEOGRAPHY: 1,667,441 square kilometers (643,803 square miles),
almost three times bigger than France. The eastern province is
bordered by the United States, the Atlantic Ocean and the Arctic
Ocean.


POPULATION: 7.5 million inhabitants; more than half live in
Montreal, Canada's second-biggest metropolis.


OFFICIAL LANGUAGE: French is spoken by 81 percent of the
population. Eight percent of Quebecers speak primarily English,
and 11 percent speak another language, according to the last
census in 2001.


CURRENCY: Canadian dollar.


ECONOMY: The province's gross domestic product was 284 billion
dollars (245 billion US) in 2006. Unemployment was 7.8 percent in
February, slightly more than the Canadian average (6.1 percent).
The provincial debt is 122.4 billion dollars (105.5 billion US).


POLITICAL SYSTEM: Rooted in British parliamentary tradition,
Quebec's National Assembly has 125 seats. Before the election
writ was dropped, the federalist Liberal Party had 72 seats, the
separatist Parti Quebecois held 45 seats while the Action
Democratique du Quebec (ADQ), a rightist party, counted five
seats. Two other seats were vacant and one lawmaker was
independent.


HISTORY: Home to aboriginals for thousands of years before
explorer Jacques Cartier claimed the land for France in 1534.
England won definitive control of Canada, including Quebec, in
1763, and the Canadian confederation was created in 1867. In
1970, Quebec militants kidnapped a Quebec minister and a British
envoy, leading to a crackdown by federal authorities. The British
trade official was released, but Quebec Labor Minister Pierre
Laporte was killed by his captors. In 1976, the separatist Parti
Quebecois won its first general election. In 1982, Canada's
constitution was repatriated from London to Ottawa, but Quebec
lawmakers refused to endorse the new charter. Quebecers have
twice voted against separation from Canada, in 1980 and 1995.
Federalists narrowly won the second vote.

