

South Africa are eyeing their World Cup Group A showdown against
reigning champions Australia after cruising to a seven-wicket
thumping of Scotland at Warner Park here on Tuesday.


Opening batsman AB de Villiers, who fired his way to a fluid
45-ball 62 in an opening stand of 134 in 15.5 overs with captain
Graeme Smith, said the team was happy to have notched up a
"clinical" win over the Scots.


"That was a clinical win and that's exactly what the coach asked
for," said the 23-year-old who struck two sixes and nine fours in
his knock.


"We've had a couple of dodgy warm-up games, it was better against
the Netherlands (a 221-run win) and it was clinical today.


"We've had a couple of good nets, we're taking it ball by ball
and I'm enjoying myself."


De Villiers, who pounced deftly in one sweeping movement at cover
to run out stand-in Scotland captain Ryan Watson with a direct
hit, said former South African cricketer Jonty Rhodes, hailed as
the world's greatest fielder in his playing days, had kept
fielding standards high.


"For sure, we've got a couple of good fielders in the ring. All
the fielders go through Jonty Rhodes who's been working very hard
and putting in the hours."


De Villiers was brimming with confidence ahead of the game
against Australia on Saturday.


With both heavyweights having qualified for the Super Eights with
two wins from two, there remains an extra two points on offer for
a win on Saturday which could be crucial in the second phase of
the tournament.


The South African team, de Villiers said, "were all playing
well".


"The bowlers are coming through nicely and we're putting runs on
the board. So we're just enjoying ourselves and looking forward
to the big game against Oz."

