

The security situation in Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) is
worrying and reform of the country's army is needed, a high-level
European Union official said here Tuesday.


"The European Union's priority is to support the consolidation of
peace and democracy in DRC. And to that end the priority is the
reform of the security sector, of the police, of the army," said
Roeland Van de Geer, the EU's special representative for the
African Great Lakes region.


After five years of civil war (1998-2003) and an ensuing rocky
political transition that ended with general elections last year,
the situation in DRC remains "extremely difficult and worrying,"
Van de Geer told a press conference at the end of a three-day
visit to Kinshasa.


Asked about renewed tensions in Kinshasa, where soldiers have
been deployed outside the home of former vice president Jean-
Pierre Bemba, prompting fears that they will clash with his
security guards, Van de Geer said "dialogue" was needed to avoid
violence.


"One has the impression that on the side of the government and on
the side of the opposition there is a will to pursue dialogue,
even though there at the moment is no direct dialogue," he said.


The situation has been tense since last Thursday when all
soldiers still serving two former rebel leaders, both of whom
have served as transitional regime vice presidents, were ordered
back to barracks.


Bemba and Azarias Ruberwa, whose rebel movements battled Kinshasa
until 2003, opposed the move, arguing that a guard of 12 police
officers assigned to them by a presidential decree was
insufficient.

