

World oil prices held in a narrow range Tuesday ahead of the
publication of weekly data on US fuel reserves, traders said.


The Department of Energy publishes its closely watched weekly
energy report on Wednesday, which is expected to show a fall in
US gasoline inventories because of strong demand in the run-up to
the summer driving season.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in April, rose 14 cents to close at 56.73 dollars a
barrel. The contract expired at the close of trade.


But in London, the price of Brent North Sea crude for May
delivery fell 32 cents to settle at 60.20 dollars a barrel.


"The strength in US gasoline (demand) has helped to counter
recent (crude) weakness driven by concerns about slower growth in
the US and China, combined with OPEC's decision to leave oil
output unchanged," Sucden analyst Michael Davies said in London.


Barclays Capital analyst Kevin Norrish added: "Wider concerns
over supply availability ahead of the summer driving season are
maintaining upwards pressure on prices.


"Fast-falling US gasoline inventories, lower imports availability
and very strong US gasoline demand levels are all lending
support."


Dealers added that recovering world stock markets, following a
rout last week, had also supported investor sentiment.


Prices had closed mixed on Monday, falling in New York but
advancing in London, after the Centre for Global Energy Studies
forecast a jump in oil prices in the coming months.


The London-based research group said in a monthly report that
prices were set to jump after the Organization of the Petroleum
Exporting Countries (OPEC) decided against an increase to its
crude output.


The OPEC cartel decided last Thursday to keep its daily output
target at 25.8 million barrels, arguing that global supply levels
were healthy.


OPEC, which supplies more than one-third of the world's oil, cut
production in November and February.

