

The government of the Marshall Islands dispatched a ship to
supply drinking water to outlying islands Wednesday after
declaring a state of emergency amid a prolonged drought.


Many islands in the western Pacific island nation of 60,000
people have had little rain since January and earlier this week
the former US territory declared an emergency for six islands and
appealed for international help.


The government's patrol vessel left the capital Majuro Monday to
provide water tanks and a reverse osmosis water purifier to
provide clean drinking water for three outlying atolls.


The reverse osmosis purifiers will convert brackish well water --
the only available supply since earlier this month -- into clean
drinking water.


Another ship left Majuro for three other remote outer atolls on
Wednesday, carrying water and large tanks to another three
atolls, said Bob Jericho, spokesman for President Kessai Note.


Secretary of Health Justina Langidrik said a further two reverse
osmosis purifiers would be used in Majuro, where about 30,000
people live.


The water supply in Majuro's reservoir has fallen to less than
six million gallons of water -- less than a five-day supply at
current levels of use. The water supply is now turned on just two
days a week.


"If we get to five million gallons, then we'll reduce water hours
to one day a week," said Majuro Water and Sewer Company manager
Terry Mellan.


Fresh water supplies have dwindled since January with the El Nino
weather phenomenon causing an extended drought for a country that
depends on rain for about 95 percent of its fresh water.


Reginald White, director of the Majuro Weather Station, said the
Marshall Islands was going through a transition from the El Nino
weather pattern to La Nina, which could mean little rain until
May.


El Nino warms the ocean in the Western Pacific, causing droughts
as rain clouds evaporate, while La Nina swings the temperature
the other direction, bringing heavy rains.

