

El Hierro, one of the smallest of Spain's Canary Islands, is to
receive 100 percent of its electricity supply from renewable
energy sources, the Madrid government said Tuesday.


As part of a plan through to 2009, El Hierro will soon be able to
rely on a combination of hydroelectricity and wind power to
generate its electricity, the industry ministry said.


"El Hierro will be the first island in the world totally supplied
by renewable energy," the ministry said, without specifying when
the scheme would actually be up and running.


The island will rely on a system involving two reservoirs to
power hydroelectic stations, a wind farm and a pumping system.


"The bulk of the energy injected into the distribution network
will emanate from the hydroelectric plant" with capacity of 10
megawatts, the ministry said.


The wind farm will generate electricity for the pumping station
that will pump water to the two reservoirs that feed the
hydroelectric stations, the ministry explained.


Excess wind energy will be used to power two desalination plants.


An existing diesel-powered plant on the island, population
10,500, will be maintained for emergencies if water and wind
supplies run short.


"Using this system, we can transform a intermittent energy source
into a controlled and constant supply of electricity," the
ministry said of the 54.3 million euro (65 million dollar) scheme
which is designed to cut the island's annual carbon dioxide
emissions by 18,700 tonnes.


Interior Minister Joan Clos Tuesday said the government would be
adopting a range of incentive measures to encourage windfarms.


Spain, where the energy market was deregulated in 1998, is second
only to Germany in Europe in terms of installed wind power
capacity, at 8,155 MW in December 2004, compared with 14,000 MW
for Germany.


The European Union recently targeted a 20 percent share of
overall energy production for the bloc by 2010, compared with a
projected three percent for Japan, for example.

