

US Vice President Dick Cheney, diagnosed earlier this month with
blood clots in his leg, returned to a hospital on Tuesday for a
checkup after feeling discomfort, his office said.


"The vice president experienced discomfort in his left lower leg
this morning. After consultation with his physicians, he was
asked to return to the George Washington University-Medical
Faculty Associates for repeat ultrasound imaging of the deep
venous thrombosis in that leg," Cheney spokeswoman Megan McGinn
said.


She said that he was expected to return to work later Tuesday at
the White House.


"The ultrasound revealed no extension or complication of the
clot. His blood- thinning medication was found to be therapeutic.


"These results are expected and reassuring, and the current
course of treatment will continue. The vice president has
returned to the White House to resume his schedule," she said.


On March 5, Cheney, who has suffered four heart attacks and wears
a defibrillator, sought medical attention for a blood clot in his
left leg and began treatment with blood-thinning medication that
was expected to last months.


Cheney, 66, and the man who would lead the United States if
President George W. Bush is incapacitated, had traveled some
25,000 miles and logged 65 hours on an airplane on a nine-day
trip prior to discovery of the clot.


Once a heavy smoker, he has a history of coronary problems,
experiencing his first heart attack in 1978 when he was only 38
-- the same year he won the first of five two-year terms in
Congress representing Wyoming.


He had his fourth heart attack in 2000, the year he and Bush won
election to the White House. He underwent an angioplasty weeks
after being sworn in as vice president in 2001.


In September 2005 he had an operation for blood clots behind each
of his knees, and in January 2006 he was hospitalized for
shortness of breath.

