

Zambian President Levy Mwanawasa on Tuesday called for a fresh
start in African countries' negotiations with Zimbabwe, likening
the country to a "sinking Titanic" that needed help.


He did not mention Harare by name but said member states of the
Southern African Development Community (SADC) should "rise and
lend a helping hand when one of them should run into serious
difficulties".


But Mwanawasa, speaking during a five-day state visit to Namibia,
said powers outside the 14-member SADC should not get involved.


Harare has accused the West of interfering in its affairs,
following criticism from the European Union, Britain and the
United States of its recent crackdown on politicians from the
opposition Movement for Democratic Change.


"As I am speaking right now, one SADC country has sunk into such
economic difficulties that it may be likened to a sinking Titanic
whose passengers are jumping out in a bid to save their lives,"
Mwanawasa said at a state banquet.


"Zambia has so far been an advocate of quiet diplomacy and
continues to believe in it, but the twist of events in the
troubled country necessitates the adoption of a new approach."


He added: "I wish to state categorically that the Zambian
government excludes the direct or indirect involvement of any
foreign state which is not a SADC member, in its quest to
dialogue with its counterpart in the troubled country."


Earlier on Tuesday, Namibian Information Minister Netumbo Nandi-
Ndaitwah acknowledged the public outcry about the internal
security situation in Zimbabwe and said the government would
never condone violence.


"Namibia is, therefore, of the opinion that peace and stability
in Zimbabwe is important to allow the citizens of that country to
continue with their normal lives," she told a press briefing.

