

Turkey's top negotiatior in accession talks with the European
Union said here Tuesday that his country will pursue reforms to
align itself with EU norms even if recently proposed membership
talks fail to resume.


"It is hard to predict when we will start talks on the four new
negotiation chapters we were recently invited to open.... We are
ready but we still need unanimous agreement by the EU-27,"
Turkey's Minister of State and Chief Negotiator for European
Union affairs Ali Babacan said Tuesday in Sofia.


"The decisions for opening and closing chapters are political...
There may always be unexpected developments. But Turkey will
pursue reforms on these chapters, regardless," Babacan added.


European Enlargement Commissioner Olli Rehn said earlier in March
that membership talks with Turkey might resume this month on the
chapter of industrial policies after the country's accession
process was partly frozen last year.


Three more chapters -- statistics, economic and monetary policy,
and financial control -- were suggested to follow in June.


Ankara has so far completed talks in only one of the 35 mandatory
policy areas that all EU candidates must negotiate to join the
bloc since it officially opened talks with the EU in October
2005.


Its accession bid suffered a serious blow last December when the
EU froze eight chapters in the accession process over Turkey's
failure to extend the same trade privileges to Cyprus enjoyed by
other member countries.


Turkey can open accession talks in policy areas other than those
eight chapters, but cannot formally complete them as long as the
dispute over Cyprus remains unsolved, EU leaders had agreed.

