

An international commission wrapped up its work Tuesday after
more than 300 million dollars was paid on tens of thousands of
claims by Holocaust victims and their families in the past
decade.


According to the International Commission on Holocaust Era
Insurance Claims' final report, "306.24 million was offered or
awarded to more than 48,000 claimants."


The ICHEIC, created in 1998, aimed to make sure insurance
companies were sticking to their commitment to process and pay
World War II-era claims.


"I fully recognize that no amount of compensation can redress the
suffering inflicted during the Holocaust," said the commission's
chairman, former US secretary of state Lawrence Eagleburger.


"Nevertheless, I believe that ICHEIC has achieved its goal of
bringing a small measure of justice to those who have been denied
it for so long," his statement said.


The ICHEIC grouped representatives of several dozen European
insurance companies with US insurance regulators, Israeli
officials and Jewish groups whose goal was to help victims of the
Nazi concentration camps obtain unpaid insurance claims.


More than 90,00 people were able to file free requests for
compensation, with more than half receiving some sort of payout.


Slightly more than 14,000 victims shared an overall sum of 238
million dollars from insurance companies, while 2,900 people from
central and eastern Europe whose insurance companies closed after
World War II received 30 million dollars.


The ICHEIC distributed another 31 million dollars between 31,000
victims whose claims were deemed credible but could not be
substantiated due to "the ravages of war and the passage of
time."

