

The family of murdered US journalist Paul Klebnikov on Tuesday
expressed dismay at Russia's handling of the case, saying full
investigation and an open, prompt trial were now a matter of
"national honour" for Russia.


"Resolution of this tragedy is not just a matter of justice. It
is a matter of Russia's national honour," the family said in a
statement distributed to news organization a week after the
journalist's trial was suspended when a suspect failed to appear
in court.


"The latest news from the Moscow City Court leaves us dismayed by
the inability of these legal proceedings to operate in a logical
and proper manner," the statement said.


Failure by Russian judicial authorities to pursue all leads in
the case and to hold a fair trial as they have promised "would be
to make a mockery of the life's mission and the death of an
honest man who died trying to make Russia a better country," it
added.


Klebnikov, editor of the Russian edition of Forbes magazine, was
gunned down outside his Moscow office in July 2004. The trial of
three suspects was suspended when one of them, Kazbek Dukuzov,
failed to appear in court.


Russian media quoted a lawyer for another suspect as saying
Dukuzov was in a hospital in his native Chechnya. His defence
team had asked that a hearing scheduled for last week be
postponed but the court refused, the lawyer said. The trial was
then suspended.


Dukuzov and another supect, Fail Sadretdinov, have already stood
trial for the murder. They were both acquitted in May 2006, but
the supreme court overturned that verdict in November and ordered
a new trial.


Prosecutors believe the murder was ordered by Khoj-Akhmed
Nukhayev, a Chechen separatist leader and businessman who was the
subject of Klebnikov's 2003 book, "Conversations with a
Barbarian."


Klebnikov was known for his investigative reporting on Russian
business. His murder focused Western attention on the perils
faced by journalists in Russia.

