

Key candidates eliminated in Mauritania's presidential elections
on Tuesday declared their preferences between the two
frontrunners going head-to-head in this weekend's run-off
election.


Ibrahima Moctar Sarr, a black African candidate who took the
fifth position in the first round of voting, said he would throw
his support behind veteran opposition politician Ahmed Ould
Daddah.


The arid northwest African country is set for a second round of
voting on Sunday after neither of the two favourites, Daddah and
Sidi Ould Cheikh Abdallahi, secured the 50 percent of ballots
needed for an outright win in the first round of the first
democratic presidential polls in the Islamic republic.


Sarr told a news conference that after talks with the two
candidates, he decided that Daddah is "the choice of the future"
after he pledged to carry out an audit of abuses by the deposed
regime of Maaouiya Ould Taya.


Black Mauritanians complain of having suffered discrimination and
slavery at the hands of the fair-skinned Moor ruling elite for
decades.


Daddah, who won about 20 percent of the vote cast on March 11, is
also enjoying the support of Saleh Ould Henenna who garnered 7.65
of the votes cast.


His rival, Abdallahi, who had 25 percent of the vote, already has
the backing of the ex-central bank chief Zeine Ould Zeidane who
garnered 15 percent and that of Messaoud Ould Boulkheir who had
garnered about 10 percent in the first round.


Abdallahi already enjoys the backing of a powerful coalition of
18 political groups once loyal to Taya.


About a third of Mauritania's 3.1 million people are eligible to
return to the polls on March 25 to choose a new civilian leader.


The presidential election marks the final stage in Mauritania's
gradual return to civilian rule after a bloodless coup led by a
military junta in August 2005 ended more than two decades of
dictatorship under Taya.

