

European stock markets closed higher on Tuesday amid takeover
speculation and news of merger talks between British bank
Barclays and Dutch peer ABN Amro, dealers said.


Dealers were also eyeing US Federal Reserve policymakers who were
gathering in Washington on Tuesday for a two-day meeting expected
to end with no change to US borrowing costs.


In Europe on Tuesday, in London the FTSE 100 index rose 0.50
percent to close at 6,220.30 points, in Frankfurt the Dax added
0.43 percent to end the day at 6,700.29 and in Paris the CAC 40
index jumped 0.81 percent to 5,503.27.


The DJ Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone blue chip shares gained
0.59 percent to 4,079.52 points.


The euro stood at 1.3316 dollars.


Wall Street got a modest lift Tuesday from a report showing a
surprise rebound in housing starts, but trading was cautious
ahead of the Federal Reserve monetary policy meeting.


The Fed is widely expected to keep its short-term interest rate
anchored at 5.25 percent when it makes a decision on Wednesday.
Investors track higher borrowing costs because they increase loan
repayments and raise companies' costs.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average drifted 0.17 percent to
12,246.84 in midday trading on Tuesday.


The Nasdaq composite added 0.36 percent to 2,402.97 while the
broad-market Standard and Poor's 500 index increased 0.26 percent
to 1,405.64.


Japanese share prices bounced back for a second straight day on
Tuesday as overnight US gains and a softer yen provided a further
boost to recovering investor sentiment, dealers said.


Across Europe, the banking sector was in focus after Barclays and
ABN Amro revealed overnight that they were in "exclusive" talks
over a possible tie-up.


The mega-merger would create the sixth-biggest global bank with a
market capitalisation of more than 160 billion dollars (120
billion euros).


Shares in ABN Amro, which is listed on the Amsterdam stock
exchange, surged percent 3.54 percent at 31 euros on Tuesday,
after a 9.6-percent jump the previous day.


In London deals on Tuesday, Barclays saw its share price leap
3.69 percent to finish at 702 pence.


There was also speculation about a takeover offer for British
leisure group Whitbread from a private equity group.


At the close of trading, Whitbread stood at 1,934 pence, a rise
of 11.09 percent.


One London-based dealer, who spoke of persistent takeover rumours
in the market, was sceptical about the latest speculation about
Whitbread.


"We've only been open two hours and there are already four bid
stories out there," said the dealer early in the day.


"It's just people trying to create a bit of mischief."


In Asia on Tuesday, Tokyo's benchmark Nikkei-225 index of leading
shares gained 0.90 percent to finish at 17,163.20 points. Hong
Kong's key Hang Seng Index closed 0.47 percent higher at
19,356.90.


Elsewhere in Europe, in Milan the BP.Mib index closed up 0.10
percent at 40,519 points, in Madrid the IBEX-35 index closed up
0.51 percent at 14,323.2 points, and in Amsterdam the AEX rose
1.19 percent to 498.29 points.


The Swiss SMI rose 0.46 percent to 8,882.4 points.

