

The United States has urged South Africa to help international
efforts to end a violent crackdown on the political opposition to
Zimbabwe's long-time ruler, Robert Mugabe, a senior official said
Tuesday.


Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice raised the issue during a
phone call with her South African counterpart, Nkosazana Dlamini-
Zuma, on Friday, State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said.


"One thing we are looking for from the South African government
is to lend their voice to efforts to stop the political violence
that is ongoing in Zimbabwe," McCormack said.


He said Washington also hoped South Africa would boost its effort
to help improve "the really increasingly bad economic situation"
in Zimbabwe.


South Africa, the regional powerhouse, has been widely criticized
for not doing more to curb the crackdown on Zimbabwe's political
opposition by Mugabe, who has ruled the country since
independence in 1980.


Mugabe's government came under international condemnation last
week for violently breaking up an opposition rally during which
senior politicians were severely beaten and arrested.


South Africa, which has long pursued a policy of "quiet
diplomacy" towards its northern neighbor, has called for Zimbabwe
to respect the rights of all its citizens but the comments stop
some of the expressions of outrage that have been heard
elsewhere.


The United States said last week it was considering widening a
program of bilateral sanctions which is already in place against
Mugabe and his immediate coterie.


Ogwu, speaking to AFP Monday during a visit to Oslo, countered
that "continued dialogue, continued negotiations" were needed in
dealing with the Zimbabwe crisis.


"Regarding economic sanctions, it is important that states that
are external to Africa do not take actions that are inimical to
the interests of Zimbabwe and Africa," Ogwu said.

