

More French people want socialist Segolene Royal to win the
presidential elections than right-winger Nicolas Sarkozy, a
survey showed on Tuesday -- despite the latter leading voting
intention polls.


When asked which of the three leading candidates they would
"personally like to win", 36 percent named Royal, 33 percent
named centrist candidate Francois Bayrou and only 29 percent
named interior minister and UMP candidate Sarkozy.


About 1,000 people were questioned in the poll, conducted by the
BVA Institute for L'Express and Metro newspapers between March 15
and 17.


However, a survey by the IFOP institute measuring voting
intentions, to be published on Wednesday in Paris-Match magazine,
confirmed Sarkozy's lead.


If the second round of the presidential elections was on Sunday
and involved Sarkozy and Royal, 53 percent (+1.5) said they would
vote for the former against 47 percent (-1.5) for the Socialist
Party candidate.


In the first round of elections, Sarkozy would get 28 percent of
the vote (+2) ahead of Royal's 24 percent (=), Bayrou's 21
percent (-1,5) and 14 percent (=) for right-wing candidate Jean
Marie Le Pen, the poll showed.


In a public meeting on Tuesday, Sarkozy rounded on his
presidential rivals, saying Royal's plans for citizen juries
reminded him of the Russian 'soviets' or governing councils.


He also attacked calls by both the Socialist Party candidate and
Bayrou for a reform of France's institutions, saying that
reducing the power of the president would only lead to
instability.


An IPSOS poll for Le Point also published on Tuesday suggested
Sarkozy would lead in the first round with 29.5 percent, followed
by 25 percent for Royal, 21.5 percent for Bayrou and 12 percent
for Le Pen.

