

South and North Korea on Wednesday resumed work on building a
reunion centre for families separated since the 1950-53 war on
the peninsula, Red Cross officials said.


The two sides began work on the centre at the North's Mount
Kumgang resort in August 2005. But the North suspended
construction in retaliation for the South's cut-off of food and
fertiliser aid following its neighbour's missile tests last July.


Ties were further strained by the North's nuclear test last
October but have warmed following its decision to return to
multinational nuclear disarmament talks.


At a high-level meeting early this month the South agreed in
principle to resume food aid. The two sides decided to resume
reunions and other joint projects and to complete the reunion
centre.


"Some 40 South Korean workers started preparatory work for the
resumption of construction today," a South Korean Red Cross
official told Yonhap news agency on condition of anonymity.


The two nations will hold a new round of face-to-face family
reunions at Mount Kumgang on May 9-14, while family reunions via
video link will be held at the resort on March 27-29.


Under an agreement reached last year, the South will provide the
North with construction materials and 400,000 dollars to be used
to buy video facilities and cover administrative costs.


More than 13,000 Koreans have been allowed brief face-to-face
reunions since an inter-Korean peace summit in 2000. But more
than 90,000 people from South Korea alone remain separated from
loved ones.


There are no mail or phone services across the heavily fortified
frontier.


South Korea is pushing for the expansion of the video reunion
programme because many in the South are now too old to travel to
the North for face-to-face meetings.

