

The head of a US Justice Department probe that found widespread
errors in the FBI's use of its power to acquire personal records
in national security cases said Tuesday the gaffes were
"unacceptable."


"The FBI's failures, in my view, were serious and unacceptable,"
Justice Department inspector general Glenn Fine told a hearing
before the House of Representatives.


"Our review found widespread and serious misuse of the FBI's
national security letter authorities," Fine said.


His March 9 audit report found 22 possible breaches of internal
regulations regarding letters used by the FBI to obtain the
personal records of US residents or visitors between 2003 and
2005.


Glenn's report said that in those cases, FBI agents did not
follow procedure in order to get personal information -- from
banks, Internet providers, phone companies or libraries -- about
people under surveillance in terror threat investigations.


The FBI subsequently acknowledged it had breached US privacy
rules in seeking access to individual telephone, email and
financial records to help investigate people suspected in terror
cases.


Fine acknowledged that the FBI agents had been under intense
pressure to produce results and their mistakes were probably not
intentional.


"I do not believe that any of my observations, however, excuse
the FBI's misuse of national security letters," he said.


FBI director Robert Mueller, who accepted the reports' findings
and said steps were being taken to address "serious deficiencies"
in procedures, is to give testimony before a similar Senate panel
on Wednesday.


The USA Patriot Act passed after the September 11, 2001 attacks
made it easier for the FBI to obtain national security letters by
dropping a requirement to show specific links between the records
sought and terrorism.

