

The euro held its ground against the dollar Tuesday as the US
currency failed to take advantage of better-than-expected US
housing data.


The single European currency in late-day trade was at 1.3303
dollars after 1.3300 late Monday in New York.


The dollar was meanwhile trading at 117.21 yen, down from 117.41.


Analysts said trading was cautious on Tuesday ahead of a US
interest rate decision later this week.


Federal Reserve policymakers were gathering in Washington for a
two-day meeting starting later Tuesday. Most economists expect
the central bank to keep its short-term interest rate pegged at
5.25 percent.


The Commerce Department data showed that US housing starts
rebounded with a surprisingly strong 9.0 percent jump in February
after a big slump in the prior month.


The report showed housing starts at an annualized pace of 1.525
million, well ahead of Wall Street forecasts of 1.445 million and
defying expectations of a further slide in the troubled real
estate market.


Analysts said that despite the solid housing start performance
last month the dollar remained under pressure because of market
jitters over the health of sub- prime mortgage lenders in the
United States.


A number of such lenders, who make loans to borrowers with weak
credit ratings, are in difficulty because of defaults.


The pound gained further after stronger-than-expected British
inflation data suggested that the Bank of England (BoE) was
likely to raise interest rates again soon, possibly as early as
next month.


The annual inflation rate, as measured by the Consumer Price
Index, unexpectedly rose to 2.8 percent in February from 2.7
percent in January, well above the central bank's target rate of
2.0 percent.


Mark Miller at HBOS said a quarter-point interest rate hike to
5.50 percent may come as soon as April although May, when the BoE
will release its next set of projections for growth and
inflation, was more likely.


"Markets will be alert to the possibility of an April hike
although it will be a very close call," he said.


Further details on the bank's thinking will emerge in Wednesday's
release of the minutes to its rate-setting meeting earlier this
month, when rates were left on hold at 5.25 percent.


Elsewhere, the Australian dollar continued to gain, making a
sustained break above the 0.80 level against the US dollar to
reach its highest level in a decade.


A combination of increased expectations that the Reserve Bank of
Australia will raise interest rates soon and gains in base and
precious metals were cited as being behind the move higher.


Rhonda Staskow at Thomson IFR Markets said Australian rate
expectations have gone from forecasting a cut by the end of the
year to forecasting an April rate hike "within the space of a
month."


The euro was changing hands at 1.3303 dollars, against 1.3300
dollars on Monday, 156.03 yen (156.49), 0.6784 pounds (0.6836)
and 1.6137 Swiss francs (1.6121).


The dollar stood at 117.28 yen (117.64) and 1.2134 Swiss francs
(1.2118).


The pound was being traded at 1.9601 dollars (1.9446).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold rose to 659
dollars per ounce from 655 dollars late on Monday.

