

Scotland gave South Africa's attack a surprise workout on Tuesday
when they registered their highest World Cup score of 186-8 in
the Group A match at Warner Park.


The five-pronged pace attack was led by Andrew Hall (3-48) who
was ably supported by Charl Langeveldt (2-48) after Graeme Smith
won the toss and decided to give his bowlers a runout before
their clash against group rivals Australia on March 24.


Dougie Brown, who top-scored with 45 not out, and John Blain (23)
gave the total some respectability with a 50-run stand for the
seventh wicket. Brown hit three boundaries during his 64-ball
knock.


Stand-in Scotland captain Ryan Watson made 31.


Watson, replacing regular captain Craig Wright who had gone home
to attend a family funeral, hit four boundaries during his
50-ball knock.


Openers Fraser Watson (24) and Majid Haq (13) gave Scotland a
confident start of 31 before both were removed in the space of
five overs.


Hall struck twice to remove Haq and Gavin Hamilton (four) to stop
Scotland's progress, while Langeveldt removed Watts.


Watson was run out after he failed to beat a direct hit by AB de
Villiers from point.


Australia and the Netherlands are the other teams in the group
from where the top two teams will qualify for the Super Eight.


Scotland, who had never played South Africa in a one-day
international, batted with resolve against the world top ranked
team and, to their credit, saw out their full quota of overs.


Paceman Makhaya Ntini, who replaced fellow paceman Andre Nel as
the only change from South Africa's 221-run win over the
Netherlands in their first match, failed to get a wicket in his
nine overs before leaving the field with cramps.


Ntini missed the first match after joining the team late due to
the birth of his daughter back home.


The two sides observed a minute's silence in memory of the late
Pakistan coach Bob Woolmer before the start of the match.


They also wore black arm bands to mourn Woolmer's death of
Sunday.

