

US shares closed higher Tuesday as a government report revealed
an unexpected rebound in housing starts and as  Federal Reserve
policymakers met in Washington to debate interest rates.


Most investors are betting the Fed will announce it is keeping
its key fed funds rate firmly anchored at 5.25 percent on
Wednesday following a two day meeting.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed up 61.93 points (0.51
percent) at 12,288.10.


The Nasdaq composite finished 13.80 points (0.58 percent) higher
at 2,408.21 while the broad-market Standard & Poor's 500
gained a strong 8.88 points (0.63 percent) to end at 1,410.94.


A surprise nine percent rebound in February housing starts helped
support the day's stocks gains, analysts said.


"The housing sector is still clearly struggling, but it is a
correction, not a crash," analysts at Briefing.com said in a
briefing note, adding: "This release is good news for the
economy."


The Commerce Department said housing starts rose to an annualized
pace of 1.525 million, well ahead of Wall Street forecasts of
1.445 million and defying expectations of a further slide in the
troubled real estate market.


Housing starts are down 28.5 percent from a year earlier,
however, in a reminder of the slump that has befallen the
country's housing market in the past year.


Nonetheless, analysts said the report provided a jolt of good
news following a string of downbeat indicators on the housing and
mortgage markets.


Home builder stocks closed stronger. Pulte Homes finished up 19
cents at 26.62 dollars while KB Home ended six cents higher at
45.64 dollars.


Fed policymakers opened a two-day meeting meanwhile at which they
are expected to keep US interest rates steady, as the financial
markets wait to see if the Fed tweaks its accompanying policy
statement and drops clues on future rate moves.


In the past few weeks, the Fed has absorbed hotter-than-expected
news on the inflation front, but also signs of economic weakness,
especially in housing and manufacturing.


On the stock front, Affiliated Computer Services ended up 8.66
dollars or  17 percent at 59.95 dollars after founder Darwin
Daeson agreed to sell the technology group to an equity group
headed by Cerberus for 8.2 billion dollars.


Computer memory maker SanDisk surged 1.92 dollars to 41.91
dollars on a positive brokerage note.


In the pharmaceutical sector, Bristol-Myers Squibb added 21 cents
to 27.15 dollars amid fresh reports of possible merger talks.


And BP's US-listed shares closed up 18 cents at 60.28 dollars in
the wake of a government report that said lax safety programs
were to blame for a 2005 Texas refinery blast.


The US Chemical Safety Board blamed a lax safety culture "at all
levels of the BP Corporation" for the March 2005 BP refinery
blast, which killed 15 people, in its final report into the
disaster.


Bond prices increased as the yield on the 10-year US Treasury
bond fell to 4.547 percent from 4.571 percent Monday and that on
the 30-year bond dropped to 4.707 percent from 4.717 percent.


Bond prices and yields move in opposing directions.

