

South Korea will develop high-altitude interceptor missiles to
cope with North Korea's ballistic missiles, the head of a state-
run defence research agency said Tuesday.


Ahn Dong-Mahn, head of the Agency for Defence Development (ADD),
also said South Korea had joined the international race to
develop electromagnetic E-bombs capable of disabling enemy
computers and radio or radar receivers.


In an interview with the Korea Defence Daily, Ahn said the agency
and 16 other defence companies planned to develop a medium-range
ground-to-air missile, known as Iron Hawk-II, by 2011.


"We will add modifications to Iron Hawk-II to produce interceptor
missiles against guided missiles," Ahn was quoted as saying.


North Korea has deployed short-range Scuds and Rodongs with a
range of 1,300 kilometres (780 miles), while actively developing
longer-range Taepodong missiles that theoretically could reach
parts of the United States.


It launched a Taepodong over Japan in 1998, sparking a major
security alert.


Ahn also said the ADD planned to develop electromagnetic pulse
(EMP) and high power microwave (HPM) bombs by 2015.


"We have drawn up a roadmap to develop EMP and HPM technology
into future precision-strike weapons," Ahn said, adding other
advanced countries have been secretly developing this technology.


EMP and HPM technology has matured to the point where practical
E-bombs are becoming technically feasible, experts say.


The EMP effect, first observed during the early testing of high
altitude airburst nuclear weapons, is characterised by the
production of a strong electromagnetic shock wave that inflicts
irreversible damage on electrical and electronic equipment.


HPM bombs fry any electronic equipment within their impact area
such as computers and radar, leaving the enemy defenceless.

