

Serbia's war crimes court on Tuesday sentenced four former
members of a paramilitary unit to prison for involvement in the
1995 Srebrenica massacre.


"The defendants are guilty ... of killing six prisoners of Muslim
origin," said judge Gordana Bozilovic-Petrovic, announcing the
verdict, adding it was a war crime against a civilian population.


The longest sentences of 20 years were given to the former
commander of the "Scorpions" unit, Slobodan Medic, and his main
accomplice, Branislav Medic.


Pera Petrasevic, the only defendant to have confessed to the
crime, was given 13 years. Another accomplice, Aleksandar Medic,
was given five years.


Two other former militiamen were separately tried for the same
charges, while the fifth defendant, Aleksandar Vukov, was
acquitted in Tuesday's ruling.


The five were charged after the release of a video showing six
Muslim men and boys from Srebrenica being shot dead in the
Bosnian village of Trnovo in July 1995.


The trial is the first in Serbia concerning the massacre of about
8,000 Muslims in Bosnia's wartime UN-protected enclave of
Srebrenica, considered the single worst atrocity in Europe since
World War II.


The case emerged after video footage of the shootings was shown
in June 2005 during the war crimes trial of late Yugoslav
president Slobodan Milosevic before the UN tribunal in The Hague.


The images shocked many Serbs who had questioned whether the
Srebrenica massacre had really taken place.


The defendants could appeal the verdict within 30 days, the judge
said.


The prosecution had demanded a maximum 40 years imprisonment for
all defendents, while the defence called for them to be
acquitted.


The trial began in November 2005, and 21 witnesses testified.


Serbia's special war crimes court was established in 2003. It
deals with lesser crimes referred to Serbia by the International
Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia which is based in The
Hague.

