

A Serbian court on Tuesday revoked a war crimes sentence and
ordered the retrial of a former paramilitary convicted of killing
prisoners during the 1991 siege of the Croatian town Vukovar,
media reported.


Citing "serious breaches of criminal trial regulations," the
Supreme Court annulled the 20-year sentence issued against Sasa
Radak by Serbia's war crimes court last September, the Tanjug
news agency reported, quoting a court statement.


"The verdict was based on insufficiently established facts and
that is why legal conclusions cannot be accepted," read the
statement.


The court said it had ordered Radak to remain in detention until
the new proceedings began.


Radak had been found guilty of taking part in the execution of
some 200 prisoners in the hamlet of Ovcara, near Vukovar, after
three months of devastating shelling by the then Yugoslav army
and Serb rebels.


He was arrested, but tried separately, with 14 other Serbs whose
20-year prison sentences over the Ovcara massacre were revoked
for the same reason in December last year.


The retrial of the 14 others began on March 13, with all
defendants pleading not guilty to the charges.


The defendants had all been members of local territorial defence
units as well as volunteer units fighting alongside the soldiers.


Vukovar was captured by the Yugoslav army and Serb rebels in
November 1991 at the end of a three-month siege in some of the
most brutal fighting of Croatia's four-year war of independence.


The town was razed and more than 1,000 people were killed,
including those at Ovcara.


The victims of the massacre were machine-gunned in groups of
about 10 and their bodies were buried in pits at a pig farm,
according to the prosecution.


The massacre started on November 20, 1991 and finished early the
next day.


The Hague-based UN war crimes tribunal has been trying three Serb
officers -- Veselin Sljivancanin, Miroslav Radic and Mile Mrksic
-- for Vukovar atrocities.

