

A village council in southern India had no right to cancel the
operating licence of a local PepsiCo plant, a court ruled on
Tuesday.


The council of Puthussery village in Kerala state decided in 2004
to cancel the operating licence it gave the US cola giant's
plant.


The council took the decision after a study by a New Delhi-based
environmental group charged the company was using too much ground
water.


"There is a government-appointed official who oversees such
issues and takes the appropriate decision," the Kerala High Court
ruled.


Environmentalists said they would challenge the decision in
India's Supreme Court.


There was no immediate comment from PepsiCo, but it had earlier
rejected claims it used too much water. The plant continued to
operate while the case moved through the courts.


"The court has favoured the US cola giant without considering the
hardships of the poor," said R. Ajayan, head of the Plachimada
People's Struggle Coordination Committee.


"The village is facing an acute water shortage as PepsiCo is
drawing excessive ground water," he said.


"We will fight it and mobilise mass opinion," said Ajayan.


His group had earlier challenged a Coca-Cola bottling plant in
Plachimada village in the same district, 70 kilometres (43 miles)
away, forcing it to close down in 2003.


Environmentalists had claimed that plant also used too much
drinking water.


Communist-ruled Kerala has proved difficult territory for the big
cola multinationals.


Last year, the state banned the sale and manufacture of the cola
drinks after the New Delhi-based Centre for Science and
Environment claimed the products contained high levels of
pesticides.


The two big cola companies insisted their locally bottled drinks
met international safety standards and challenged the ban, which
was lifted in September by the Kerala High Court.


Coke and Pepsi account for 99 percent of India's soft drinks
market.

