

The euro struck 159.90 yen on Tuesday, a record high for the
European single currency against its Japanese counterpart, after
the Bank of Japan left its benchmark interest rate at 0.50
percent.


The euro later stood at 159.67 yen in early European trade, from
159.33 yen in New York late on Monday.


Elsewhere, the euro rose to 1.3409 dollars, from 1.3354 dollars
on Monday.


The dollar stood at 119.17 yen, compared with 119.29.


"The yen remains impaired against the dollar and the euro by the
prospect that the Bank of Japan will maintain an unchanged
monetary stance at least until after the (Japanese) Upper House
elections in July," said Paul Chertkow, head of global currency
research at The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi in London.


The yen is being weighed down by widening interest rate
differentials. Eurozone borrowing costs are set to reach 4.0
percent by the end of the second quarter, according to
economists.


Dealers were meanwhile looking ahead to a meeting in Washington
of finance ministers and central bankers from the Group of Seven
(G7) nations on Friday.


"The Europeans are still concerned about the strength of the euro
against the yen and we cannot rule out the possibility that the
EU members may speak out about it ahead of the G7 meeting," said
Hidenori Kato, head of foreign exchange sales and trading at
Societe Generale.


The G7 ministers opted for a relatively soft line on the sliding
Japanese yen at their February meeting in Germany despite
European concerns about the currency's weakness, which is hurting
eurozone exporters.


Japanese Finance Minister Koji Omi said Tuesday that the agenda
for this Friday's meeting in Washington had not yet been decided.


Omi said last week that the G7 ministers would discuss currencies
in general but would not focus in particular on the weakness of
the yen.


Investors will also be on the lookout for the minutes from the
March meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee on Wednesday
for clues on the direction of US monetary policy, dealers said.


Early on Tuesday the euro was changing hands at 1.3409 dollars,
against 1.3354 dollars late Monday, 159.67 yen (159.33), 0.6808
pounds (0.6806) and 1.6361 Swiss francs (1.6380).


The dollar stood at 119.17 yen (119.29) and 1.2201 Swiss francs
(1.2264).


The pound was being traded at 1.9700 dollars (1.9619).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold advanced to
676.60 dollars per ounce, from 673.50 dollars late on Monday.

