

Hertha Berlin's new coach Karsten Heine insisted on Tuesday his
side have the ability to halt their slide down the Bundesliga
which has seen them pick up just one win in their last ten games.


Previous Hertha coach Falko Goetz became the tenth Bundesliga
manager to be sacked this season after he was shown the door on
Tuesday following Berlin's 1-1 draw with relegation-threatened
Arminia Bielefeld last weekend.


The club's board finally lost patience after watching Hertha slid
from league leaders last October to ninth position - just five
points off the relegation zone - and Heine has been promoted from
the club's Under-23 side.


"I am looking forward to the task ahead," said Heine, "our main
purpose now is to get back to the form we showed last autumn and
to start playing some attractive football to avoid relegation,
which I am sure we can do."


Hertha general manager Dieter Hoeness explained the move to
promote Heine, whose first game in charge will be at Bochum on
Saturday, is designed to minimise any disruptions behind the
scenes.


"He can begin immediately with the work only without having to
get to know the team," said Hoeness, "in this situation, the team
needs an experienced man who can lead the team.


"Karsten is the ideal man for many reasons. He is an excellent
coach and a football expert. Plus, he has already worked with
most of the squad in the Under-23 side."


Goetz's sacking is the tenth in the Bundesliga this season with
Thomas van Heesen and Frank Geideck (both Arminia Bielefeld),
Thomas Doll (Hamburg), Felix Magath (Bayern Munich), Jupp
Heynckes (Borussia Moenchengladbach), Peter Neururer (Hanover
96), Dieter Hecking (Alemannia Aachen) as well as Juergen Roeber
and Bert van Marwijk (both Borussia Dortmund) parting ways.

