

Paul Stookey, famous for songs of social protest with the US folk
trio Peter, Paul and Mary, will stage concerts here for the
families of Japanese kidnapped by North Korea, his agent said
Tuesday.


The benefit concerts will be held on May 18 and 19 at a civic
hall, joined by Japanese singers, with proceeds going to fund a
campaign to help kidnap victims, Yasu Nagai told a news
conference.


Stookey has recorded a song about Megumi Yokota, who was
kidnapped by North Korea in 1977 at age 13, and the agony of her
ageing parents who believe she is still alive in the communist
state.


"The concert was put together out of the strong desire to resolve
the abduction issue with the power of song," Shigeru Yokota,
Megumi's 74-year-old father, told the news conference.


A four-song CD, including "Song for Megumi," was released in
Japan in February and Stookey, a 69-year-old born-again
Christian, plans to produce a full CD including the song in May
for worldwide sales.


In September 2002, North Korean leader Kim Jong-Il admitted to
kidnapping 13 Japanese in the 1970s and 1980s, mostly by sea, to
train spies in Japanese language and culture.


Pyongyang insisted that eight of them were dead, with Megumi
having killed herself due to depression after marrying a Korean
and bearing a child. But her parents believe their daughter is
alive and kept under wraps, probably because she knows too much
about the secretive nation.


Stookey said here earlier: "If people say, 'Who's Megumi?', then
'What has happened to her, could that happen to someone I love?'
-- If I've done that, I've done an amazing service."


Japan, annoying China and South Korea, has refused to fund a
breakthrough six- nation nuclear deal with North Korea due to the
abduction row.


Under the deal, North Korea is supposed to shut key nuclear
facilities by Saturday, in exchange for energy aid.

