

Chelsea, conscious of the recent trouble involving English fans
travelling in Europe, on Tuesday assured their supporters that
fan safety was their priority.


Chelsea are the underdogs to progress to the Champions League
semi-finals from Tuesday night's match after they were held to a
1-1 draw by Valencia at Stamford Bridge in the first leg.


Supporters of Manchester United and Tottenham were involved in
ugly clashes last week when their clubs visited Roma and Sevilla
respectively but a statement issued on Chelsea's official
website, www.chelseafc.com, insisted that they were doing
everything in their power to avoid any repeat at the Estadio
Mestalla.


The statement read: "In light of recent events involving
travelling English fans with their clubs, Chelsea Football Club
would like to reassure our supporters that every step is being
taken to ensure their safety for the second leg against Valencia.
The safety of our supporters is paramount."


The club went on to point out that the first leg of their match
passed off in cordial circumstances and expected a similarly
incident-free match tonight.


"The two clubs, both sets of supporters and the various English
and Spanish authorities enjoyed excellent dialogue and relations
in the organisation and staging of a trouble-free first leg and
that tone has continued in the run-up to the second leg," said
the statement.


The Valencia police, meanwhile, echoed those thoughts.


"We are not expecting any problems, we have many big clubs here
and have had English clubs before and there have never been
problems," said a police spokesman.

