

President Gloria Arroyo on Tuesday welcomed a European Union plan
to send observers to monitor next month's mid-term elections in
the Philippines.


A presidential spokesman said the move would dispel fears of
widespread cheating in a nation many observers consider as among
the world's most corrupt.


"The Philippines is an open book as far as the conduct of our
democratic processes is concerned, and welcome all well-meaning
and properly accredited observers in all stages of the electoral
proceedings," spokesman Ignacio Bunye said.


While acknowledging "isolated incidents of fraud" in previous
polls, Bunye said the presence of foreign observers would ensure
no cheating takes place this time around.


"The spectre of widespread fraud in this area of close media and
global vigilance (and the) communications revolution does not
hold water," he said in a statement.


The Philippines goes to the polls on May 14 to choose senators,
congressmen and thousands of local officials in what analysts say
could be a referendum on the government of President Arroyo, who
has been accused of rigging the hotly contested 2004 vote.


Recent independent surveys have predicted that Arroyo's
candidates for senators will not win a majority in the senate.


Arroyo's popularity has floundered after surviving two
impeachment bids in Congress and a coup attempt last year.


She has consistently denied charges of vote fraud following
revelations that she telephoned a poll commissioner before
counting in the 2004 election had finished. She has since
described the call as a "lapse in judgement".


Bunye insisted that Arroyo's government is fighting corruption
"tooth and nail" to ensure political stability.

