

Hungarian Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsany said on Tuesday that
his country's public deficit, the highest in the European Union
last year, would be "significantly" lower than forecast for 2007.


"According to all the analysis available ... the Hungarian
budget's position for this year will be significantly, tangibly
better than forecast," Gyurcsany told a business forum organised
by British weekly The Economist in Budapest.


"The numbers we see show that expenditures are in line with
expectations while revenues are somewhat better than expected. It
is extremely important to add that we do not plan on spending the
extra revenue," Gyurcsany said.


Gyurcsany did not say what deficit he expected for 2007 based on
the government's improving economic outlook.


This year's deficit estimate has been revised down to 6.7 percent
of gross domestic product after lower than expected deficits in
the first two months of the year.


The deficit in 2006 was expected to reach about 9.5 percent of
gross domestic product, the result of many years of government
overspending and loose fiscal policies.


Gyurcsany's deficit busting programme includes tax rises, cuts in
household energy price subsidies, as well as the introduction of
co-payments for doctor's visits and an end to free public
university education.


The measures are a crucial part of the country's ambitions to
meet economic criteria to adopt the euro.


The government has no target date for euro adoption, but analysts
expect this to happen between 2011 and 2014.


Gyurcsany's Socialist-Liberal coalition, which was re-elected
last year, has seen its popularity plummet in the past year as
the a result of the austerity measures.


But Gyurcsany said "this year was the hardest in terms of both
social and economic effects" and predicted a brighter outlook and
higher growth rates in the coming years.

