

Europe's main stock markets climbed on Tuesday, lifted by merger
news and solid gains for miners, as traders returned to their
desks after the Easter break, dealers said.


Markets across Europe were shut on Friday and Monday for Easter
public holidays.


In late morning trade on Tuesday, London's FTSE 100 index of
leading shares rose 0.16 percent to 6,407.60 points, Frankfurt's
DAX 30 gained 0.45 percent to 7,131.95, and in Paris the CAC 40
added 0.07 percent to 5,745.48 points.


The DJ Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone blue chip shares won 0.22
percent to 4,280.88.


The euro stood at 1.3417 dollars.


Wall Street shares had closed mixed on Monday, with blue-chip
issues buoyed by an upbeat survey of the US jobs market late last
week and by lower crude oil prices, traders said.


Japanese share prices closed down on Tuesday as investors locked
in gains a day after the market hit the highest level for almost
six weeks.


In Paris early on Tuesday, PPR shares soared 2.48 percent to
132.14 euros after the French luxury goods group said it has
agreed to buy a 27.1-percent stake in German sportswear
specialist Puma and launch a full takeover offer.


The bid from PPR, which owns a range of top-end fashion brands
including Yves Saint Laurent and Gucci, values the German company
at about 5.7 billion euros (7.6 billion dollars).


Shares in Puma surged 9.24 percent to 343.28 euros, making them
the biggest gainers on the mid-cap MDAX index on the Frankfurt
stock exchange.


On Frankfurt's DAX 30 index, global sportswear giant Adidas won
2.83 percent to 42.60 euros.


Shares in German automaker DaimlerChrysler, meanwhile, leapt 2.86
percent to 61.91 euros.


Billionaire investor Kirk Kerkorian's investment group had last
Thursday offered DaimlerChrysler 4.5 billion dollars (3.3 billion
euros) in cash to buy its struggling Chrysler unit.


London's mining sector posted solid gains thanks to firm metals
prices, dealers said.


Shares in Kazakhmys, the biggest copper miner in Kazakhstan,
jumped 2.50 percent to 1,230 pence. Anglo-Australian miner Rio
Tinto added 1.28 percent to 3,084 pence and platinum producer
Lonmin rose 1.24 percent to 3,519 pence.


On the downside, J Sainsbury shares shed 0.71 percent to 557
pence amid reports that the British supermarket group was holding
out for a takeover offer of 600 pence per share.


According to newspaper reports, an investment funds consortium
had increased its takeover bid for Sainsbury to 582 pence per
share late on Monday.


The improved offer from the consortium -- which comprises private
equity groups Blackstone, CVC and Texas Pacific -- valued J
Sainsbury at about 10 billion pounds (14.7 billion euros, 19.7
billion dollars).


In US deals on Monday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average closed up
a slight 0.07 percent at 12,569.14, while the Nasdaq composite
finished down 0.09 percent at 2,469.18.


The Standard and Poor's 500 broad-market index ended up a scant
0.06 percent at 1,444.61 points.


In Asia on Tuesday, Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of
leading shares fell 0.45 percent to finish at 17,664.69 points.


Dealers there said that a decision by the Bank of Japan to leave
its key interest rate unchanged at 0.5 percent had been widely
expected.


Hong Kong's key Hang Seng Index closed 0.68 percent higher at
20,347.87 points.

