

Five of the 18 judges on Ukraine's constitutional court, which is
set to rule in a power struggle between the president and
parliament, complained Tuesday of "gross pressure" and asked for
protection.


"Gross pressure has been applied," judge Volodymyr Kampo told
journalists, reading from a joint statement. "To guarantee our
security we ask to be given state protection."


Another judge, Viktor Shishkin, blamed parliament, which is
dominated by allies of Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych, the
Moscow-backed leader of a rebellion against pro-Western President
Viktor Yushchenko.


"The fact parliament is raising tensions is an element in the
pressure," Shishkin, said.


The accusation came a day before the court begins considering the
legality of Yushchenko's order earlier this month for the
dissolution of parliament and holding of fresh elections.


A majority in parliament has refused to comply and the stand-off
has plunged the ex-Soviet republic into a constitutional and
political crisis, with large numbers of anti-Yushchenko
protestors camping out in central Kiev.


The constitutional court, which has agreed to rule on the dispute
at the request of Yanukovych supporters in parliament, is
composed of six judges chosen by the president, six chosen by
parliament and six by the legal community.


Those speaking out on Tuesday included three Yushchenko
appointees, one judge appointed by parliament and one from the
legal community.


The deepening power struggle here dates to 2004-2005 when
Yanukovych's defeat of Yushchenko in a presidential race was
overturned amid huge demonstrations dubbed the Orange Revolution.
Yushchenko then won the re-run.


The European Union, Russia and the United States have all voiced
concern over the latest tensions in Ukraine.

