

Taiwanese authorities believe a fire that gutted the villa of a
former Nationalist leader was caused deliberately, Taipei's mayor
said Tuesday.


There had been speculation that blaze was part of a campaign to
wipe out the legacy of Chiang Kai-shek, who died in 1975 after
ruling the island for 26 years.


"The fire department and experts involved in the
investigation...reached a preliminary decision that the incident
was caused by arson. This is a criminal offence endangering
public safety," Hau Lung-bin told reporters.


The blaze destroyed the wooden villa built on the scenic Yangming
Mountain in 1920. It was Chiang's first official residence in
Taiwan after he fled the mainland at the end of a civil war to
relocate the Kuomintang (Nationalist Party) on the island in
1949.


The incident comes at a sensitive time, with opposition claims
that the independence-leaning Democratic Progressive Party (DPP)
government is attempting to eliminate Chiang's legacy ahead of
next year's presidential elections.


The leading opposition Kuomintang (KMT) party favours friendly
ties with China, which still considers Taiwan part of its
territory awaiting reunification.


Hau, from the KMT, has ordered increased surveillance of Chiang's
memorial hall and another residence in the wake of the fire.


The KMT's 51-year grip on power ended when the DPP's Chen Shui-
bian was elected president in 2000. He was re-elected in 2004.


Hundreds of statues of the former leader were removed from
Taiwan's military bases early this year and a statue of Chiang
was recently dismantled in southern Kaohsiung.


Despite an outcry from the KMT, the DPP has insisted that a
democratic country like Taiwan has no need for monuments of the
former "dictator."


As part of the alleged campaign to discredit Chiang, the
government has announced plans to rename his memorial hall.

