

French property group Unibail announced Tuesday it had agreed to
buy Dutch rival Rodamco Europe in a bid to create what they said
would be the biggest pan- European commercial real estate
operation.


Unibail said it had offered 0.53 of its own common shares for
each Rodamco common share, a 15 percent premium over Rodamco
Europe's closing share price on April 5, which valued the group
at 11.2 billion euros (15.04 billion dollars).


"Rodamco Europe and Unibail Holding announce they intend to
combine both companies to create the leading pan-European
commercial property company," the companies said in a joint
statement.


A merger of the companies would create a property giant with
assets worth 21.7 billion euros and annual net rental income of
974 million euros based on 2006 figures.


The combination would lead to the creation of "the largest pan-
European portfolio of class-A shopping centres with over 700
million visits per year," the groups said.


Unibail proposed an alternative takeover offer to Rodamco
shareholders, covering a maximum 20 percent of the offer,
involving redeemable bonds in exchange for Rodamco common shares.


The companies said they would have a combined market
capitalisation of about 21 billion euros, with their registered
office in Paris and international operations headquartered in the
Netherlands.


The new combination is expected to introduce a new company name
at a later stage.


Unibail chief executive officer Guillaume Poitrinal will become
management board chairman and CEO of the combined group.

