

A Taiwanese army investigation concluded Tuesday that human error
was responsible for a military helicopter crash that claimed the
lives of eight army officers last week.


Abrupt changes of weather in the mountainous area of southern
Kaohsiung county might have affected the flight of the ill-fated
helicopter, the report conceded.


But "had the pilots adopted other options like taking the proper
alternative flight routes, flying back to base or asking the
control tower for flight guidance, the tragedy could have been
avoided," the report said.


It blamed the crew for a lack of ability in responding to the
emergency.


The UH-1H chopper lost contact with the control tower at 4:28 pm
(0928 GMT) on Tuesday last week, 36 minutes after it took off
from the southern Kuijen airbase for a training drill, the
ministry said in a statement. It crashed into a radio tower in
Kaohsiung.


The crash dealt a heavy blow to the army, as the eight casualties
belonged to the same elite brigade. Among the deaths were two
army colonels -- the head and deputy of the army's 601 Airborne
Special Force Brigade -- as well as two lieutenant-colonels, two
army majors, an army captain and a master sergeant.


The army did not say when a flight ban on the UH-1H fleet,
grounded for safety checks after the crash, would be lifted.


The defence ministry reprimanded the army's commanding General
Chao Shih-chang and Lieutenant General Wang Kuo-chiang, commander
of the army's airborne special force command, in the wake of the
tragedy.

