

Guinea-Bissau's leader has appointed a new consensus prime
minister, bowing to opposition pressure following a no confidence
vote against the former government, state media said Tuesday.


President Joao Bernardo Vieira named by decree Martinho Ndafa
Kabi, of the opposition African Party for the Independence of
Guinea-Bissau and Cape Verde (PAIGC), as prime minister, state
radio said.


Former prime minister Aristide Gomes tendered his resignation and
that of his government last month following the loss of a
confidence vote on March 19, amid criticism over its state
spending and failure to clear several months of pay arrears owed
to civil servants.


The no confidence vote in Gomes dealt a blow to Viera, who has
struggled to govern the poverty-stricken west African country
since returning to power in 2005.


Vieira was overthrown from power in 1999 after 19 years of iron-
fisted rule, but returned from exile in former colonial power
Portugal to run for the presidency as an independent.


Since then however, he has had problems securing support in
parliament amid a power struggle that has weakened the already
impoverished country.


Kabi, 48, who was proposed for the prime minister seat by the
country's main political parties, held the posts of minister of
energy and defence between 2004 and 2005.


On Tuesday there was still no indication of when Kabi would
appoint his government, which is set to comprise 29 ministers,
according to a deal struck by the country's main political
parties.


Opposition parties said Monday they had rejected a plan by Vieira
to hand the prime minister position back to Gomes.


Gomes was appointed prime minister in November 2005 despite
objections from the PAIGC, which held the parliamentary majority.
He replaced Carlos Gomes Junior, who was sacked only a few months
into office following a series of disputes with Vieira.

