

Hong Kong share prices closed 0.68 percent higher Tuesday as a
fresh inflow of funds, following a five-day holiday, supported
blue chips and China stocks, dealers said.


They said sentiment was bolstered by another record finish on the
mainland's A-share markets and strong housing sales in Hong Kong
over the holiday weekend.


The market was closed from Thursday until Tuesday for the Easter
holiday and Chinese Ching Ming festival.


The Hang Seng Index closed up 138.16 points at 20,347.87, off a
low of 20,248.04 and a high of 20,416.54. Turnover was 55.50
billion Hong Kong dollars (7.1 billion US).


"Some of the excess liquidity which drove the China stock markets
to new highs apparently spilled over and provided much of the
support to the local market today," said Y.K. Chan, a strategist
at Phillip Asset Management.


He said it is not surprising that the mainland markets are
sustaining gains despite the Chinese central bank's decision to
raise the reserve requirements for commercial banks further.


"There are not enough channels in the mainland to absorb excess
liquidity; that's why excess monies have been finding their way
into the stock markets," he said.


Kitty Chan, director at Celestial Asia Securities Holdings
(CASH), echoed Chan's view.


"So-called 'hot money' was the principal driver of trade today.
Just look at today's heavy volume and the fact that the index
continued to trend higher even if it was already above the 20,000
points level," she said.


She said that oversubscription levels in some recent initial
public offerings is "another clear indication of inflows of
institutional monies into the local market".


Analysts noted that blue chips were the principal targets of
buying interest.


Among notable gainers, HSBC was up 1.60 at 138.70, China Mobile
was up 0.35 at 71.70 and Hutchison Whampoa rose 0.75 to 77.10.


Sun Hung Kai Properties added 1.30 to 93.30 and Henderson Land
was up 0.25 at 47.60.


"HSBC gained significantly mainly because worries about problems
in the US housing sub-prime lenders market have eased. There are
some hopes that HSBC's unit may not be hit as hard as people had
feared" earlier," said Kitty Chan.


Elsewhere in the banking sector, Hang Seng Bank was up 0.50 at
113.40, Bank of East Asia was up 0.95 at 48.75 and BOC Hong Kong
was up 0.08 at 19.34.


China plays were mostly higher, with Ping An up 0.50 at 39.70,
China Life up 0.40 at 23.20 and ICBC up 0.01 at 4.32.


Airline stocks were mostly higher after crude prices fell sharply
overnight.


Cathay Pacific was up 0.50 at 20.95 and Air China was up 0.11 at
5.60, while China Southern Airline was down 0.07 at 3.62.


Oil counters were mostly lower, with PetroChina down 0.07 hkd or
at 9.16 and CNOOC down 0.03 at 6.87.


Sinopec was up 0.24 at 7.14 after reporting a net profit of 53.91
billion yuan (6.65 billion US dollars) for 2006 against 43.84
billion yuan a year earlier, under international accounting
standards.

