

An Algerian extremist accused of financing the deadly 1995
bombings in the Paris metro that left eight dead is to stand
trial before a Paris criminal court in October, a judicial source
said Tuesday.


Rachid Ramda, who was extradited from Britain in December 2005
after a 10-year legal battle, faces a possible life sentence if
he is convicted. The case will open on October 1 and is expected
to last one month.


In March last year he was sentenced to 10 years in prison by a
separate French tribunal on terrorism charges.


Ramda allegedly helped fund the attacks on three Paris metro
stations that left eight dead and 200 injured in 1995, acting for
the militant Armed Islamic Group (GIA) which has been fighting
the Algerian government since 1992.


He has refused during questioning by anti-terrorism judge Jean-
Louis Bruguiere to answer the charges, said Ramda's lawyer
Guillaume Barbe, who said his client would await his day in court
to explain his actions.


In 1993, Ramda was sentenced to death in absentia in Algeria over
an attack on Algiers airport that left nine dead and 123 wounded.


He had fought a protracted battle in Britain against extradition
to France on the grounds that he may be unlawfully sent back to
Algeria to face the death penalty, which the French authorities
denied.


British authorities suspected Ramda of being "one of the leaders
of GIA in Europe" and editor of the Al Ansar newsletter for GIA,
according to a source close to the prosecution.


Records of phone calls and documents discovered in London show
that Ramda served as a go-between for extremists in France and
GIA leader Djamel Zitouni.

