

The board of European aerospace group EADS has decided against
proposing a capital increase to shareholders at the company's
annual general meeting on May 4, the agenda for the meeting,
obtained by AFP, showed on Tuesday.


The group has said that it will require external finance at some
point, either through a share capital increase or via a bond
issue, because of production problems at its aircraft unit Airbus
and the cost of new projects.


A capital increase would be a delicate operation in EADS, a
highly politicised company with a fine balance of power between
French and German shareholders.


Any capital increase would have to be financed by all
shareholders equally if the balance were to be maintained and
they have been unable to agree on the operation, according to
sources.


EADS co-chief executive Louis Gallois, who is also chief
executive of Airbus, said last month that there was "no urgency
for a capital increase" by EADS.


The agenda, sent to shareholders ahead of the AGM, also showed
that the EADS board had not decided whether to pay a dividend
from 2006 earnings and would leave shareholders to decide the
issue.


"The members of the board were not able to come to an agreement
on a dividend proposition," the document said.


The European Aeronautic Defence and Space company, which has
helicopter, space and defence assets as well as Airbus, reported
net profit of 99 million euros in 2006 compared to 1.676 billion
euros in 2005.


Operating profit fell 86 percent to 399 million euros.


Distribution of all of the 2006 net profit would represent a
dividend of 0.12 euros per share.


EADS is to confirm at the AGM that operating profit will be
stable in 2007 compared to the 2006 level and that Airbus will
report another "substantial loss" this year.


Airbus has run into problems with its giant A380 superjumbo
project which is running two years behind schedule.

