

Seven French doctors were ordered Tuesday to stand trial over the
deaths of 110 youths who developed Creutzfelt-Jakob Disease (CJD)
after taking growth hormones in the 1980s, court officials said.


In one of France's most serious health scandals the victims, most
of them children suffering from stunted growth, are thought to
have developed the brain- wasting disease after being given
contaminated hormones.


In the 1980s, human growth hormones -- which are now produced
synthetically -- were extracted from the pituitary gland of human
corpses.


The investigation launched by judge Marie-Odile Bertella-Geffroy
in 1991 found that at least two hormone batches, from 1983 and
1985, were contaminated with CJD. It also detected irregularities
in the way the glands were collected.


Those facing trial include senior doctors from the France-
Hypophyse association, which collected the glands, the Paris'
Pasteur Institute, which used them to produce hormones, and the
central Paris hospital pharmacy.


They are charged with manslaughter and aggravated fraud. The
trial is scheduled to start late this year.


Jeanne Goerrian, whose 24-year-old son Eric died of CJD in 1994
after taking growth hormones and who has been campaigning for
justice ever since, welcomed the decision to bring the case to
trial.


"I hope the trial will help us to understand what happened, to
prevent such a tragedy from happening again. Now is the hour of
truth," she said.


CJD is one of a family of so-called prion diseases in which a
rogue protein proliferates in the brain, sparking symptoms such
as poor coordination and slow speech, eventually leading to
forgetfulness, dementia and death.


A total of 110 people are believed to have died of the disease in
France between 1990 and 2007 after taking growth hormones.

