

The battle for German wind turbine maker REpower hotted up
Tuesday with the announcement that India's Suzlon Energy, the
fifth-largest wind energy firm in the world, had raised its offer
for the company to 1.22 billion euros (1.6 billion dollars).


Suzlon Wind Energie, the German unit of Suzlon, said in a
statement that the Indian wind turbine manufacturer had increased
its bid to 150 euros per REpower share from 126 euros previously.


The improved offer topped a rival bid of 140 euros per share from
French company Areva, Suzlon said.


In a preliminary reaction to the announcement, Areva said it
would reconsider its own bid.


"We will reconsider the matter," a spokesman for Areva told AFP.


"Since Suzlon has bought a block of shares at 150 euros, it's a
modification of their existing offer and not a completely new
offer, so the offer period will remain unchanged," the spokesman
said.


The French group therefore had a period of 10 days to decide
whether to raise its own offer, he added.


Suzlon's chairman and managing director, Tulsi Tanti, said that
"the decision to increase our offer was taken after careful
analysis and review of potential synergies,"


Suzlon chief executive Andre Horbach said that the two firms "can
strive for a top three position in all key wind markets."


Areva, whose offer for REpower is friendly, owns more than 30
percent of the German company.


Suzlon said it holds a stake of 7.7 percent in REpower, prior to
a planned capital hike by the group.


REpower did not immediately respond to the improved offer, which
runs until April 20.


But investors appeared to be speculating on a continuation of the
bidding war, with REpower shares changing hands at 155.63 euros
on the Frankfurt stock exchange on Tuesday, up 1.72 percent on
the day.

