

Russia sees no sign that Iran has made any breakthrough in its
nuclear fuel enrichment programme, as claimed by Tehran, the
Russian foreign ministry said Tuesday.


"We do not know of any recent technological breakthroughs in the
Iranian nuclear programme that would change the character of the
work in the field of enrichment," ministry spokesman Mikhail
Kamynin said in a statement.


Iran announced this week that it is now able to enrich uranium on
an "industrial scale" and that there are plans to ramp up the
country's controversial atomic drive significantly further.


The United States and Britain have expressed alarm, while the
European Union reiterated calls for Iran to suspend uranium
enrichment. Russia's reaction was markedly lower key.


The foreign ministry statement warned against reactions based on
an "overflow of emotions and sensationalism which is not
necessarily based on fact."


Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said it was too early to draw
conclusions on Iran's claims.


"We will follow the situation carefully on the basis of concrete
facts and not on declarations that only worsen the situation,"
Lavrov told reporters.


Enrichment of uranium is the key sticking point in the standoff
between Iran and the West as the process can produce nuclear fuel
but in highly extended form can also make the fissile core for an
atomic bomb.


Iran insists its nuclear drive is solely aimed at generating
energy and that it does not plan to build a military capacity.


Russia is building Iran's first nuclear power station at Bushehr
and has supplied the Islamic republic with sophisticated military
equipment, angering the United States.


However, Moscow has also supported two sets of UN sanctions aimed
at persuading Iran to comply with demands to suspend enrichment.

