

At least 1,086 people were killed in four days of recent heavy
clashes between Ethiopian forces and Islamist fighters backed by
clan militia in Mogadishu, elders from the Hawiye clan said
Tuesday.


The fighting, which erupted late last month when Ethiopian forces
launched a bloody crackdown on suspected insurgents in the Somali
capital, also left 4,334 people wounded, Hussein Aden Korgab, the
Hawiye clan spokesman, told AFP.


"Our assessment team counted 1,086 people killed ... (and) 4,334
wounded," he said.


Kograb said the death toll was collected by a clan panel that was
formed to hold talks with the Ethiopian forces after active
fighting subsided.


"We assessed battle fields, spoke to civilians, visited hospitals
and areas that were affected by the clashes," he said when asked
how the figure was reached.


Without giving specifics he added that damage to property by the
heavy fighting was an estimated "1.5 billion dollars".


Humanitarian groups have described the clashes, most of which
occured in around the stadium area and Al Kamin neighbourhood in
southern Mogadishu, as the worst in 15 years.


A local rights group, which compiled initial figures from
hospitals and witnesses, said 381 civilians had died and 565 were
wounded in the four days of clashes between March 29 and April 1.


Most of the dead have buried.


The UN refugee agency (UNHCR) said around 124,000 people, mostly
civilians, have fled the blood-soaked capital in the past two
months as a result of the violence.


Last week, the European Union envoy to Nairobi, Eric van der
Linden, said he had asked Brussels to investigate whether
Ethiopian-Somali forces committed war crimes in the bloody
crackdown.


Somalia has lacked an effective central government since the
ousting of former dictator Mohamed Siad Barre in 1991 touched off
a bloody power struggle that exploded into inter-clan warfare.


More than 14 attempts to restore a functional government in
Somalia have since failed.

