

The Basque separatist group ETA has two active cells in Spain
that are ready to launch terrorist attacks if its banned
political wing Batasuna is prevented from participating in local
elections in May, a newspaper reported Tuesday.


ETA also has a group in Madrid that is tasked with gathering
information on potential targets, conservative daily newspaper
ABC reported citing unnamed anti-terrorism sources.


The armed group said Sunday it could not imagine the May 27 polls
in the northern Basque and Navarre regions taking part without
the participation of Basque leftist nationals like Batasuna.


"Holding non-democratic elections would extend the conflict," two
unnamed ETA fighters said in an interview published Sunday in
Basque newspaper Gara, the group's usual mouthpiece.


The two also stood by ETA's March 2006 ceasefire declaration
despite a December car bombing at Madrid's airport that killed
two people and threw the Socialist government's peace initiatives
into disarray.


The airport bombing was ETA's first fatal attack since May 2003.


The Spanish government has said Batasuna could only take part in
the local elections if it gave an unequivocal statement disowning
ETA, whose 38-year-old campaign for Basque independence has
claimed over 800 lives.


Batasuna has set up a new party called Abertzale Sozialisten
Batasuna, which hopes to participate in the elections but Spanish
prosecutors have asked the Supreme Court to ban it.


The European Union and the United States consider Batasuna --
which won about 10 percent of the vote in the 2001 municipal
elections in the Basque region -- and ETA to be terrorist
organisations.

