

A breakfast of porridge laced with rat poison killed a 77-year-
old patient and left more than 200 other people ill at a major
Chinese hospital, state media reported Tuesday.


The elderly woman who died had been admitted to the hospital in
northeast China's Heilongjiang province on Friday suffering from
heart problems but was instead killed by her toxic breakfast on
Monday, the Xinhua news agency said.


The 202 other victims, who included patients, doctors and nurses,
were in stable condition suffering nausea and diarrhoea after
eating the porridge at the hospital canteen, Xinhua said, citing
local health authorities.


Investigators confirmed the toxic substance was a rat poison,
which was believed to have infected the water used in the
porridge, Xinhua said.


No details were given as to how the rat poison have have
contaminated the water.


The Hospital of Traditional Chinese Medicine, where the incident
occurred, is among the largest and best-equipped medical
institutions in the provincial capital of Harbin, according to
the report.


Reports of food poisoning outbreaks emerge frequently in China,
where hygiene and safety standards remain low for many of the
nation's 1.3 billion people.


In September last year, nearly 100 children in southwest China's
Sichuan province fell ill after eating porridge and steamed bread
at a primary school.


The same month 336 people fell sick in Shanghai after eating pork
contaminated with anabolic steroids.


Sales of turbot, a popular flatfish, were banned in parts of
eastern China last year after they were found to contain
carcinogens from antibiotics.

