

The euro struck 160.04 yen on Tuesday, a record high for the
European single currency against its Japanese counterpart, after
the Bank of Japan left its benchmark interest rate at 0.50
percent.


The euro later stood at 159.97 yen in afternoon European trade,
from 159.33 yen in New York late on Monday.


Elsewhere, the euro rose to 1.3428 dollars, from 1.3354 dollars
on Monday.


The dollar stood at 119.14 yen, compared with 119.29.


"The yen remains impaired against the dollar and the euro by the
prospect that the Bank of Japan will maintain an unchanged
monetary stance at least until after the (Japanese) Upper House
elections in July," said Paul Chertkow, head of global currency
research at The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi in London.


The yen is being weighed down by widening rate differentials as
dealers continue to take advantage of Japan's low borrowing costs
to raise funds to invest overseas, analysts said.


"With BoJ expectations stable, currency market volatility
subsiding and risk aversion abating, carry trades are recovering,
keeping the yen under pressure," said analyst Daniel Katzive at
UBS.


In so-called carry trades, investors borrow currencies from
countries with low interest rates, such as the yen, in order to
invest in assets in countries with higher interest rates, such as
Britain or Australia.


In contrast with static Japanese rates, eurozone borrowing costs
are set to reach 4.0 percent by the end of the second quarter,
according to economists.


Dealers were meanwhile looking ahead to a meeting in Washington
of finance ministers and central bankers from the Group of Seven
(G7) nations on Friday.


"The Europeans are still concerned about the strength of the euro
against the yen and we cannot rule out the possibility that the
EU members may speak out about it ahead of the G7 meeting," said
Hidenori Kato, head of foreign exchange sales and trading at
Societe Generale.


The G7 ministers opted for a relatively soft line on the sliding
Japanese yen at their February meeting in Germany despite
European concerns about the currency's weakness, which is hurting
eurozone exporters.


Japanese Finance Minister Koji Omi said Tuesday that the agenda
for this Friday's meeting in Washington had not yet been decided.


Omi said last week that the G7 ministers would discuss currencies
in general but would not focus in particular on the weakness of
the yen.


Investors will also be on the lookout for the minutes from the
March meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee on Wednesday
for clues on the direction of US monetary policy, dealers said.


In late afternoon European trade on Tuesday the euro was changing
hands at 1.3428 dollars, against 1.3354 dollars late Monday,
159.97 yen (159.33), 0.6802 pounds (0.6806) and 1.6360 Swiss
francs (1.6380).


The dollar stood at 119.14 yen (119.29) and 1.2185 Swiss francs
(1.2264).


The pound was being traded at 1.9738 dollars (1.9619).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold advanced to
676.60 dollars per ounce, from 673.50 dollars late on Monday.

