

Workers at China's largest drink maker Wahaha have said they are
opposed to a series of takeovers by the French Groupe Danone
which would result in the loss of Chinese control of their brand.


Workers' representatives called for legal protection for Chinese
brands against takeover by foreign companies.


"We strongly urge the state to quickly issue laws and regulations
opposing hostile takeovers by foreign capital, and, in an effort
to safeguard the interests of our national brand, to immediately
investigate the clearly hostile takeover action begun by the
Danone Group," they said in a statement issued Monday.


France's Danone, which owns 51 percent of a joint venture with
Wahaha, plans to invest four billion yuan (519 million dollars)
for controlling stakes in Wahaha subsidiaries, Wahaha chairman
Zong Qinghou told Sina.com on Sunday.


The agreement would give the joint venture the exclusive right to
produce, distribute and sell food and beverage products under the
Wahaha brand, Zong said.


"We consider such provisions unfair, prohibiting us from making
goods that are produced by the joint ventures while imposing no
restrictions on Danone itself," Zong said, before launching an
angry diatribe against the French company.


"I told them the Chinese have stood up and the era of invasions
by eight-country armies is long-gone," he said, referring to a
military campaign into China by colonial powers in the 20th
century.


"Chinese people have their own national character, you are always
trying to threaten us, bully us, this is only making us angry."


Danone, one of the world's largest yogurt makers, set up five
joint ventures with Wahaha in 1996 under an agreement that bars
the Chinese company from making products that compete with it.


Officials from Danone were not available for comment when
contacted by AFP.

