

The head of the OSCE, Spanish Foreign Minister Miguel Angel
Moratinos, said Tuesday he hoped to achieve a consensus in
November to hand the body's presidency to Kazakhstan in 2009.


Kazakh "President (Nursultan) Nazarbayev has shown a constructive
attitude and I hope that there will be a consensus at the meeting
in Madrid" of the Organization for Security and Co-operation in
Europe (OSCE) foreign ministers set for the end of November,
Moratinos told a press conference in Astana.


"Kazakhstan continues to work towards its social, economic and
political commitments," he added following a meeting with
Nazarbayev on the first day of tour of the five Central Asian
countries.


Last December, the OSCE foreign ministers were unable to agree on
handing Kazakhstan the organisation's presidency in 2009 due to
criticism of the oil- rich Central Asian state for its record on
human rights, including accusations of rigging elections and not
allowing freedom of expression.


The European Union has however indicated that it would support
the Kazakh initiative if the country implements significant
democratic reforms this year.


Nazarbayev, whose reelection in 2005 with 91 percent of the vote
met harsh criticism from the OSCE, has vowed to launch judiciary
reforms and to change the country's laws concerning elections,
the media and the recognition of political parties.


While Moratinos said he was "impressed" by the reform programme,
he insisted it needed to be implemented "in the near future."


A majority of EU countries support Kazakhstan's aim to host the
rotating OSCE presidency in 2009, but the United States and
Britain have indicated that they remain reluctant to back the bid
this year.


If it does win the presidency, Kazakhstan will be the first
former Soviet republic to lead the OSCE, a trans-Atlantic
democracy watchdog comprising 56 states from Europe, Central Asia
and America.

