

Taliban militants ambushed an Afghan army convoy with rockets and
heavy machineguns in southern Afghanistan Tuesday, killing four
soldiers and injuring 19 others, the defence ministry said.


Two Afghan troops, a policeman and a rebel were killed in
separate clashes on Monday between the fundamentalist Islamic
movement and security forces loyal to US-backed President Hamid
Karzai, officials said.


The convoy was returning to its base in the Tirin Kot district of
southern Zabul province from an operation in a nearby village
when dozens of Taliban opened fire, defence ministry spokesman
General Mohammad Zahir Azimi said.


"Unfortunately we lost four soldiers. Nineteen others were
injured in the ambush," Azimi told AFP, adding that the Taliban
also sustained casualties but his ministry had no figures.


Zabul is one of the most violence-hit regions in southern
Afghanistan, where remnants of the Taliban, who were toppled in a
US-led invasion in late 2001, carry almost daily attacks on
foreign and Afghan targets.


On Monday two Afghan soldiers were killed and four seriously
injured when Taliban rebels attacked another convoy near Qalat,
the capital of Zabul province, on a motorway leading from Kabul
to the southern city of Kandahar.


The casualties happened during a three-hour firefight, the army's
southern commander Rahmatullah Raofi told AFP.


Again he had no figures for Taliban casualties.


Also on Monday Taliban fighters opened fire on a police vehicle
in Kandahar, sparking a gunbattle in which a policeman and an
insurgent were killed, Kandahar police chief Esmatullah Alizai
told AFP.


Kandahar was the birthplace of the ultra-Islamic Taliban regime
which ruled Afghanistan from 1996 to 2001.

