

Palestinian prime minister Ismail Haniya said on Tuesday that the
ball was in Israel's camp over a prisoner exchange deal for a
soldier held by Gaza militants.


"We are serious in our will to proceed with an exchange and we
hope that negotiations will lead to the freeing of our detainees
from the prisons of the Israeli occupier," Haniya told reporters
in Gaza City.


"The ball is in Israel's camp and everything now depends on the
answer that Israel will give to the just Palestinian demand to
free our prisoners," he said.


On Sunday, an Israeli official told AFP the Jewish state had
received a list of people the Palestinians want freed in exchange
for Gilad Shalit, a serviceman captured on June 25 by Gaza-based
militants, including the armed wing of Hamas.


Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert on Tuesday examined the list
with Yuval Diskin, the head of the Shin Beth domestic security
service, army radio said.


A source close to the Palestinian government told AFP the list
contained the names of 450 prisoners, including such leading
jailed militants as Marwan Barghuti and Ahmed Saadat, both
members of the Palestinian parliament.


Barghuti, the West Bank leader of president Mahmud Abbas's
secular Fatah movement who is widely revered by Palestinians as
the mastermind of their second uprising or intifada, is serving
five life sentences for planning attacks against Israelis.


Saadat, leader of the leftist Popular Front for the Liberation of
Palestine, is accused by Israel of masterminding the 2001
assassination in occupied east Jerusalem of far-right tourism
minister Rehavam Zeevi.


Olmert is expected to convene his security cabinet later this
week to set Israel's criteria for clearing prisoners for release.


Shalit's capture sparked a deadly Israeli air and ground
offensive against the Gaza Strip that killed several hundred
Palestinians before a November ceasefire came into force.

