

French-Spanish tobacco group Altadis said on Tuesday that its
board had unanimously rejected an improved 47-euro-per-share
takeover off from British rival Imperial Tobacco.


Altadis said its board had studied the informal bid and had
concluded that it "does not reflect the company's strategic
value... nor the diversity of its assets, nor its growth
potential."


Imperial had initially offered 45 euros per share for Altadis on
March 15, valuing the group at 11.5 billion euros (15.2 billion
dollars).


A merger of the companies would bring together the Imperial
cigarette brands of Regal, Embassy and Davidoff with Altadis
best-sellers Gauloises and Fortuna.


Some analysts have suggested that that the board of Altadis is
looking for a bid of at least 50 euros per share.


The board said it had asked its advisors "to continue their
process of analysing the best options for the company, its shares
and its workers".


The Financial Times quoted informed sources as saying the two
companies had had talks over the weekend at which Imperial, the
world's fourth largest tobacco group, had put forward its
improved offer.


It said Altadis has hired Merrill Lynch as its fourth investment
bank to work alongside Credit Suisse, JP Morgan and NM Rothschild
to examine other options for Altadis, which has also attracted
interest from private equity groups CVC Capital, Cinven and PAI.


With anti-tobacco legislation starting to bite, the tobacco
sector is in a process of consolidation as companies seek
economies of scale.

