

Singapore will restrict liquids, aerosols and gels in passengers'
hand luggage at its airports as part of new security measures
against a possible terror attack, officials said Tuesday.


Travellers leaving Changi and Selatar airports will be affected
when the changes take effect on May 8, police and the Civil
Aviation Authority of Singapore (CAAS) said in a joint statement.


The measures are in line with recommendations put forward by the
International Civil Aviation Organization after a reported terror
plot in Britain in August last year.


British authorities at the time said they had foiled a plot to
blow up planes flying from Britain to the United States using
liquid explosives.


"Though there is currently no specific threat against civil
aviation in Singapore, the UK incident underlines how real and
continuing the global terrorist threat is," the joint statement
said.


"Singapore supports the recommendation as this will enhance the
safety and security of the airports and its users."


Under the new measures, liquids, aerosols and gels must be stored
in containers with a maximum capacity of 100ml.


They must then be placed in a transparent, resealable plastic bag
which must be completely closed. Only one such plastic bag is
allowed per passenger, and this must be presented separately for
security screening.


Liquids, aerosols and gels cover a wide range of items from water
and other drinks to perfumes, deodorants, toothpaste, cosmetics,
contact lens solutions and hair and shower gels.


Pressurised foam and sprays, including shaving foam, as well as
soups and sauces, creams, balms, lotions and oils are also
affected.


Exempt items will include medications such as insulin and cough
syrups as well as baby food and special food needed by
passengers, but these will be subjected to additional checks.

