

Moroccan security forces killed a suspected terrorist and another
blew himself up during a raid on a house in Casablanca Tuesday,
police said.


They said the pair died at dawn in the el Fida district of the
port city as part of a raid looking for suspects in a March 11
bomb attack on an Internet cafe. Both were carrying explosives.


"One of the two was hit by bullets and died from his injuries
while the other blew himself up just as police officers were in
the process of arresting him," the statement said.


An officer at the scene said there were three suspects hiding in
a house that was raided.


"At around 5:00 am one of them came into the street with a sword.
The police fired a warning shot, which he failed to obey. They
then fired a second shot before he could activate the explosives
that he was carrying," the officer said.


He said another suspect came onto the balcony after hearing the
shots. Seeing the house surrounded, he blew himself up. Police
are searching for the third suspect who fled, said the officer,
who declined to be identified.


Reports of a fourth suspect were later said to be untrue.


"Police were searching for three men who were preparing attacks
in Casablanca and during the night they surrounded the house
where they were," senior police official Mohamed Mouadab told
reporters.


The area was sealed off as police carried out a door-to-door
search for the man on the run.


Unconfirmed reports by investigators said he is the brother of
Abdelfettah Raydi, the bomber who died in the March 11 attack on
a cybercafe in Casablanca.


The March 11 attack on the Casablanca Internet cafe also injured
an accomplice and three customers in the cafe. Thirty-one people
have been arrested since.

