

China will expand a program that allows domestic institutional
investors to buy foreign securities, following its success since
launching a year ago, a banking regulator said Tuesday.


China Banking Regulatory Commission (CBRC) Chairman Liu Mingkang
said the country is planning to extend the qualified domestic
institutional investor (QDII) scheme although he did not say how
it will be expanded.


However, CBRC said on its website that it is considering
"cautiously adjusting and enlarging" the scope of overseas
investments that can be acquired by commercial banks under the
scheme.


Relevant policies will be announced "soon" after it completes its
study of the issue, it added. The first QDII product was launched
in June 2006.


By allowing qualified banks and fund management companies to
invest overseas, China hopes to ease the pressure on its currency
and to broaden the investment channels for China's wealth
management products.


A recent Standard Chartered research report said that 18.5
billion US dollars worth of quotas under the scheme had been
allocated but only around five percent had been utilised.


This was largely due to product limitations, the appreciation of
the yuan and the booming domestic stock market.


Commenting on the health of the Chinese banking sector, Liu said
it has improved.


"The year 2005 is a very significant year in the Chinese banking
industry because this is the first year we witnessed the non-
performing loan ratio become a single digit," he told reporters.


"By next year I think the non-performing loan ratio will be
around five percent if not lower," he added.


Liu also forecast that the loan reserve shortfall will also slip
below 10 billion dollars by next year.

