

The leading Dow Jones Industrial Average stock index broke the
13,000-point barrier for the first time Wednesday before
retreating, as investors cheered a flurry of upbeat profit
reports.


The leading blue chip index soared as high as 13,036.99 points in
early morning deals before receding as profit-takers decided to
cash in some of their portfolio gains.


At 1451 GMT, the Dow was up 42.82 points, or 0.33 percent, at
12,996.76 points in frenzied trading as bullish traders
celebrated the index striking a new record.


Market observers said the 13,000-point mark was psychologically
important for Wall Street and would likely help underpin robust
trading sentiment despite concerns about US economic growth.


The tech-laden Nasdaq composite had gained 5.07 points (0.20
percent) to 2,529.61 by mid-morning, and the broad-market
Standard and Poor's 500 index had gained 4.63 points (0.31
percent) to 1,485.04.


The US stock market has rocketed higher in the past week as
investors have applauded a flow of strong profit reports from
corporate America and several big mergers and acquisitions.


An acquisition binge by big private equity firms has also fueled
Wall Street's optimism.


Some analysts said the market would likely pull back after its
record spurt, however.


"We believe it will prove to be an excuse for profit-taking and a
normal correction," said Al Goldman, a chief market strategist at
AG Edwards.


The good news for shareholders continued Wednesday as Boeing Co.
said its first-quarter profits soared 28 percent from a year ago
to 877 million dollars as new aircraft orders boomed.


Boeing's shares were down 62 cents at 93.05 dollars.


Strong first quarter earnings from ConocoPhillips, Colgate-
Palmolive, PepsiCo and online retailer Amazon.com also propelled
stocks higher in early activity, traders said.


The stock market has risen despite a less-than-rosy US economic
picture. The world's biggest economy has slowed markedly in the
past year amid a downturn in the housing market.


"The market showed good resilience after the disappointing
existing home sales data yesterday (Tuesday), but our comments
yesterday that the economic trends are worrisome still hold,"
said Dick Green, a president at Briefing.com.


An industry association reported Tuesday that US home sales
plummeted dramatically last month, to an annualized pace of 6.12
million units, as the market endured its biggest monthly fall in
over 18 years dashing hopes of a sales turnaround.


Fresh news on the housing sector Wednesday was somewhat better.


The government said new home sales rebounded 2.6 percent in
April, but the rise fell below most analysts' forecasts and new
homes sales represent less of the market than existing property
sales.


New home sales reached an annualized pace of 858,000 units, the
Commerce Department said, but most analysts had predicted a clip
of 890,000 units.


Bond prices fell slightly. The yield on the 10-year US Treasury
bond rose to 4.626 percent from 4.622 percent Tuesday and that on
the 30-year bond climbed to 4.811 percent against 4.804 percent.
Bond yields and prices move in opposite directions.

