

The United Arab Emirates agreed Wednesday to set up an
independent body to look into compensation claims by Asian and
African children who were used as camel jockeys before a 2005
ban.


The agreement was reached during a three-day conference in Abu
Dhabi attended by delegates from Bangladesh, Mauritania,
Pakistan, Sudan and the United Nations children's fund UNICEF as
well as the UAE, a closing statement said.


"The UAE, in conjunction with the governments of Pakistan,
Bangladesh, Sudan and Mauritania, agreed to establish, with the
consultation and technical advice of UNICEF, an independent
claims facility to hear and adjudicate individual claims for
injury by children formerly involved in camel racing."


An interior ministry official told AFP that the claims authority
would have representation in all four countries where child
jockeys have returned as part of a programme of repatriation and
rehabilitation for which the UAE has earmarked more than eight
million dollars.


The UAE signed an agreement with UNICEF in May 2005 to
rehabilitate child camel jockeys after banning their use in the
region's popular sport, which had drawn sharp criticism from
human rights bodies.


The pact, which has since been extended until May 2009, was inked
less than a month after a UAE ban on jockeys aged under 16 and
weighing less than 45 kilogrammes (100 pounds) came into force.


Under the UAE-UNICEF programme, "more than 1,077 children
received services at community centres and were repatriated to
their home countries," Wednesday's statement said.


In future, the UAE plans to use robots to race camels rather than
children.

