

US billionaire William Gross is planning to auction off his
collection of rare British stamps dating to 1840 and donate the
expected multimillion-dollar proceeds to the group Doctors
Without Borders.


Gross, a legendary Wall Street bond fund manager, intends to put
his valuable portfolio of British stamps dating from 1840 to
1929, including the "world's first adhesive postage stamps," on
the auction block on June 11, according to a statement from Gross
and the organizations.


The 200 stamps up for grabs are conservatively valued at around
four million dollars and include a "Penny Black" and "Two Penny
Blue" stamps depicting a young Queen Victoria, according to
auctioneer Charles Shreve.


Darin Portnoy, president of the US arm of the Doctors Without
Borders, also known as Medecins Sans Frontieres, said the auction
could garner a lucrative donation for the French-based
humanitarian group which provides emergency medical care in
conflict zones and to people affected by natural disasters.


The sale, which will also include a 1904 six pence "I.R.
Official" stamp issued just for British government use, will be
overseen by New York's Shreves Philatelic Galleries, but the
stamps will be displayed in London in May for potential buyers to
peruse.


Gross, an avid stamp collector, has a net worth of 1.2 billion
dollars which he mainly amassed through bond trading, according
to Forbes magazine which ranks him as one of America's richest
individuals.

