

Saying "this mess called election must not stand", a coalition of
Nigeria's civil groups called Wednesday for mass action to cancel
the country's flawed presidential and parliamentary polls.


"We are demanding that the election should be cancelled," Adewale
Balogun, a spokesman for the 16 rights and civil society groups,
told a packed news conference where local journalists nodded
"Amen" in agreement to the coalition's list of concerns over the
poll.


"We will have rallies. We would need to ask for civil
disobedience. We will also engage in peaceful demonstrations.
This is a struggle," he added.


"From May 1, we will need to wear black armbands to indicate we
have rejected the sham election and that we mourn the imminent
death of democracy," Balogun also said.


The activists, including Nobel literature laureate Wole Soyinka,
were currently consulting civil organisations nationwide to
coordinate and plan action in the weeks before President Olusegun
Obasanjo hands over to his protege Umar Yar'Adua, declared
landslide victor of a disputed April 21 poll.


The presidential vote, along with parliamentary ballots held
concurrently and state elections a week earlier, have been
slammed as flawed due to large scale irregularities, fraud and
violence.


"This is the beginning of a long walk," Balogun said.


In an eight-page statement that began, "Shame and sham again,
this evil will not stand," the groups said the polls were the
darkest days in the country's history.


"If this election stands, we gravitate irredeemably towards
Obasanjo's long- coveted project of a one-party state, whether it
please the people or not," the statement said, referring to the
ruling People's Democratic Party (PDP).

