

Industrialised countries must support China's efforts to end its
dependency on coal, which is highly pollutant, environmental
group Greenpeace told an Asia Europe meeting (ASEM) in Copenhagen
on Wednesday.


"Denmark and the European countries must call on the Asian
Development Bank to phase out fossil fuels and shift all its
energy funding to sustainable renewable energies and demand
energy efficiency measures," Tarjei Haaland, head of Greenpeace's
climate campaign, told AFP.


"The bank, which is mainly supported by the rich countries, must
stop financing projects focused on coal," Greenpeace said,
denouncing the "hypocrisy" of European countries which talk about
fighting climate change while allowing the bank to continue
funding polluting projects.


In a report on China's energy future published Wednesday,
Greenpeace estimated that "China can achieve rapid economic
growth without jeopardising the climate, through the use of
renewable energy, combined with energy efficiency."


"The average Chinese consumes one third of the energy of an
average European and one seventh of an American, but that number
is set to increase. Our report shows that China can maintain
economic growth and at the same time stabilise its CO2 (carbon
dioxide) emissions at the current level by 2050," energy expert
Liu Shuang said.


China is the world's second-largest polluter after the United
States and the world's biggest producer and consumer of coal. The
Chinese government has set a target to supply 16 percent of its
energy from renewable sources by 2020.


The third ASEM meeting, taking place through Thursday in
Copenhagen, brought together 38 European Union and Asian
environment ministers and their delegations to discuss themes
such as climate warming, sustainable energy, threats to
biodiversity and deforestation.

