

European Commission chief Jose Manuel Barroso on Wednesday
announced and then swiftly scaled down plans for an EU mini-
summit, "in order to avoid speculations about European
divisions".


Earlier in the day his spokeswoman Pia Ahrenkilde said he had
invited some European leaders for an informal weekend
"brainstorming session" in Sintra, Portugal, on May 12 and 13.


The stalled European constitution was among the issues to be
discussed.


She declined to name which EU leaders had been invited but said
that "the participation will be balanced and representative" and
that "it's good not to be too numerous".


A German spokesman said Chancellor Angela Merkel, whose country
currently holds the EU's rotating presidency, is among those
invited to the mini-summit.


There were also swift confirmations from national governments
that Dutch Prime Minister Jan Peter Balkenende and Luxembourg
Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker were on the list and that
Italian Prime Minister Romano Prodi "has been invited and will
go".


Belgium's Prime Minister Guy Verhofstadt has not been invited,
sources said, highlighting the problems of organising such a
meeting which leaves some EU leaders out of the picture.


Later in the day the commission issued a statement saying that
"in the light of recent contacts and in order to avoid
speculations about European divisions", Barroso had decided to
scale down and formalise the guest list.


Only "the current president of the European Council (Germany),
the future Portuguese and Slovenian presidencies and the
President of the European Parliament (Hans-Gert Poettering)" were
invited.


"He was dissatisfied with the reactions" to his original plan,
another Barroso spokeswoman, Leonor Ribeiro da Silva, told AFP.


The constitution, which has to be ratified by all 27 members, was
supposed to give a major overhaul to the EU's institutions. But
its fate was thrown into uncertainty when French and Dutch voters
rejected it in referenda in 2005.

