

The WTO's chief agriculture negotiator said Wednesday that he
would try to stimulate deadlocked trade talks in the coming days,
while warning that the 150 members were "a million miles from
anywhere" on some issues.


The chairman of World Trade Organisation's farm negotiating
committee, New Zealand ambassador Crawford Falconer, said that he
would present a discussion paper to his fellow negotiators on
Friday or Monday.


"I hope to provoke discussions, it's time to get real," the New
Zealand ambassador told journalists.


Falconer said he could see two or three topics within the crucial
farm trade negotiations where a "centre of gravity" could be
found, provided countries were prepared to split their
differences.


However, he said that in other areas he would tell negotiators
"aren't you all a million miles from anywhere, and I haven't the
faintest idea of how I'm supposed to invent a solution to this
because you're too damned far apart."


Repeated attempts in recent months to kickstart the deadlocked
trade liberalisation talks launched in 2001 have floundered
principally on the core issue of reducing agricultural subsidies
and import tariffs.


Last week, WTO Director General Pascal Lamy called on the
organisation's members to intensify talks and not to wait for an
outcome from meetings between leading players in world trade
known as the G4: the United States, the European Union, India and
Brazil.


"The multilateral process can no longer be made to wait for the
contribution of smaller groups," Lamy said.


Ministers from the G4 met in New Delhi earlier this month but
failed to reach a deal on agriculture.


Falconer said he hoped the negotiators would sit down to discuss
his ideas at the end of next week.

