

The euro came within striking distance of its record level
against the dollar on Wednesday, with analysts predicting a
breakthrough of the historic 1.3666-dollar mark in the near
future.


After a high of 1.3665 dollars in early trading Wednesday, the
European single currency fell back slightly later in the day but
was expected to resume its climb against the dollar.


"The dollar corrections are far weaker than we expect and it
seems the euro is on the point of breaking its record," commented
analyst Phil Roberts at Barclays Capital.


In late European trade, the euro was trading at 1.3648 -- not far
off its record peak of 1.3666 dollars that was hit on December
30, 2004.


The euro has gained 3.5 percent against the dollar since the
start of the year and 15 percent since January 2006.


The dollar stood at 118.60 yen, compared with 118.55 on Tuesday.


The strength of the euro is because investors are attracted by
the likely prospect of higher eurozone interest rates, compared
with the increased chances of lower rates in the United States.


The euro was given a fresh boost on Wednesday by a stronger-than-
expected business survey in Germany, the eurozone's biggest
economy, which cemented expectations of further rises in European
interest rates.


"Germany's strong Ifo business confidence readings will be
latched onto by the ECB to justify higher rates ahead," said
analyst David Brown at Bear Stearns, adding that Germany "seems
to be undergoing a white hot change of economic positivism."


The widely watched business climate index, calculated each month
by the Munich- based economic research institute Ifo, rose to
108.6 points in April from 107.7 points in March.


The increase put the index just one-tenth of a point away from
the record score of 108.7 points recorded in December.


"Overall, today's number is another piece of the jigsaw adding up
to a monetary tightening next month," said Daragh Maher, senior
forex strategist at Calyon.


The dollar was also undercut by weak property data that raised
fears about an economic slowdown of the US economy, the world's
biggest.


Government data on Wednesday showed US new home sales rebounded
2.6 percent in April, but the rise was below most forecasts by
private economists.


New home sales reached an annualized pace of 858,000 units, the
Commerce Department said, below the average Wall Street forecast
for a pace of 890,000.


The level of sales remained 23.5 percent below last year's pace,
reflecting the slump in what had been a sizzling property market
for several years.


Elsewhere, the yen was weak, with markets awaiting direction from
inflation data on Friday and the latest Bank of Japan forecasts
on the economy.


The euro changed hands at 1.3648 dollars, against 1.3640 dollars
late Tuesday, 161.88 yen (161.72), 0.6810 pounds (0.6810) and
1.6410 Swiss francs (1.6386).


The dollar stood at 118.60 yen (118.55) and 1.2025 Swiss francs
(1.2013).


The pound was being traded at 2.0043 dollars (2.0023).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold decreased to 684
dollars per ounce, from 688.40 dollars late on Tuesday.

