

Spain's Economy Minister Pedro Solbes said on Wednesday that a
recent slump in Spanish property and construction stocks was a
"major correction" but would not have an adverse impact on the
real estate sector as a whole.


It was a "major correction," he told a news conference at the
Spanish Senate, "but to say from one day to the next that there
was a cyclical change (for the industry) is not coherent."


On Tuesday, the Spanish stock market had slumped nearly three
percent, led by losses in the property and banking sector and
amid concern about a downturn in the overheated Spanish real
estate sector.


"I do not see how the construction sector is affected. It
continues to work the same with a slight deceleration which
allows it to adjust to reality which will logically lead to a
slightly lower demand," Solbes said.


The unease over the housing sector was triggered by a sharp fall
in shares in Spanish real estate company Astroc, which have lost
more than 60 percent in less than a week after an auditor's
report raised concerns over its finances.


The market was also spooked by comments about the Spanish
property market by the president of French construction firm
Eiffage, Jean-Francois Roverato.


Roverato justified rejecting a takeover offer from Spanish
construction group Sacyr on the grounds that the Spanish firm's
real estate assets in its home market "could very soon be revised
down."


The developments follow signs that property prices -- which have
soared over the past decade helping to fuel economic growth rates
and the profits of builders -- are finally levelling out as
household debt reaches record levels.


Housing prices rose 7.2 percent year-on-year during the first
quarter, their lowest increase since 1999, according to
government statistics.

