

Virginia Tech gunman Cho Seung-Hui fired more than 170 bullets in
nine minutes in his murder rampage in the university classroom
building where he killed 30 on April 16, police said Wednesday.


Virginia state police superintendent Steven Flaherty told a press
conference in Blacksburg, Virginia that ballistics reports and
other evidence also tied Cho to two students shot death earlier
that morning at a dormitory, but that police still had not found
any personal ties.


South Korea-born, US-raised English major Cho, 23, killed a total
of 27 students and five faculty members in the deadliest-ever US
school shooting spree last week.


Police said they "don't have any evidence" for Cho's specific
motives for the massacre aside from the rambling, hate-filled
writings, photographs and videotaped statements that he mailed to
NBC television from a Blacksburg post office between the first
shootings around 7:00 am on April 16 and the second shootings,
about two and a half hours later.


However, Flaherty said that police had concluded that Cho
recorded all of the video and made the photographs prior to the
first shootings in the West Ambler Johnston dormitory on the
campus.


Police also said that ballistic tests on a nine-millimeter
handgun, one of two found by Cho's body after he killed himself
at the end of his rampage, showed it was used both in the
dormitory killings and those in the Norris Hall classroom
building later in the morning.


Despite witnesses having seen Cho outside the dormitory just
prior to the shooting of a female student and a dormitory advisor
that morning, police were reticent to declare categorically that
Cho had killed them.


"We are still trying to figure out what he did or did not do"
inside West Ambler Johnston, campus police chief Wendell Flinchum
said at the press conference.

