

An assailant Wednesday fired at security guards after being
stopped from entering Turkey's Higher Education Board (YOK), a
staunchly secularist institution that has received threats in the
past, a board official said.


The YOK chairman, Professor Erdogan Tezic, has often clashed
publicly with the Islamist-rooted government of Prime Minister
Recep Tayyip Erdogan.


He favours rigid enforcement of a ban on the Islamic headscarf in
Turkish universities, which his board oversees.


YOK's deputy chairman Aybar Ertepinar said the institution had
stepped up security at its building in Ankara's Bilkent suburb
after receiving threats, which he did not specify.


The assailant forced his way into the garage of the building,
threatening the doorman with a gun, Ertepinar told NTV
television.


Security guards arrived just as the man was asking for Tezic's
office.


"He ran out and the guards chased him. He fired at them from two
spots in the street before commandeering first a car and then a
taxi to flee," Ertepinar said.


No one was injured, he said, adding that the assailant was filmed
by YOK's security cameras.


A manhunt was launched to seek the assailant, described as a
lean, dark complexioned man in his 30s.


In May last year, a radical Islamist lawyer killed a senior judge
and wounded four others when he raided Turkey's top
administrative court in what he said was in retaliation for the
headscarf ban, which the tribunal helped enforce.


Wednesday's shooting coincided with the rekindling of a debate on
the Islamic headscarf, a highly explosive and divisive issue in
secular Turkey, after Erdogan's party nominated Foreign Minister
Abdullah Gul, whose wife wears the veil, as its candidate to
become the country's next president in May.

