

Chelsea's Ghanaian midfielder Michael Essien was not contrary to
reports arrested on a drink driving charge this week, one of his
entourage told AFP on Wednesday.


On Monday The Sun newspaper, citing a Chelsea insider and
witness, claimed Essien was arrested for drunk driving in the
early hours on Monday after leaving a nightclub.


The tabloid said that the 24-year-old was pulled over by police
in his black Range Rover, and took a breathalyser test. When the
result proved positive, he was arrested.


A spokeswoman for London's Metropolitan Police declined to
confirm whether Essien was arrested, as per police policy not to
name individuals arrested, but told AFP that at approximately
5:10 am (0410 GMT) on Monday, "officers in Southwark (south
London) stopped a vehicle driving in Old Kent Road."


"Officers spoke with the driver and subsequently arrested the 24
-year-old man on suspicion of drink driving. He was taken into
custody and later bailed to return pending further inquiries -
next due on a date in July."


But a member of the player's entourage firmly denied the report,
telling AFP that Essien had been taken to a police station to
provide a blood sample after an inconclusive breathalyser test.


He said after Essien had passed the blood control he was allowed
to leave the police station and drive home in his own car.


Essien misses Wednesday's Champion League semi-final first leg
against Liverpool due to suspension.


Essien, who was named the BBC's African Footballer of the year in
January in a poll in which 12,000 listeners voted, had reportedly
gone clubbing in south London with his friends on Sunday night,
before being arrested Monday morning.


Essien's spokeswoman was quoted as saying: "He is very upset and
does not believe he was over the limit. Michael is a responsible
person who would never drive if he thought he would be impaired
by alcohol."

