

US President George W. Bush hopes that those responsible for
misleading the family of a US football star killed in Afghanistan
will be punished, the White House said Wednesday.


The US military initially claimed that Pat Tillman had fought
valiantly to the death during an ambush in Afghanistan on April
22, 2004. But an investigation found that he was killed by
"friendly fire" from fellow US soldiers.


"I think that he feels deeply sorry for the family and all that
they have gone through," Bush spokeswoman Dana Perino said, one
day after Tillman's brother accused the US military of lying to
avert a public relations disaster.


The president is "pleased that the Department of Defense has
taken it upon themselves to investigate it, and he hopes that
people are held to account," said Perino.


Bush did not learn of the true circumstances of Tillman's death
until "well after the funeral" for the professional athlete
turned US Army Ranger, the spokeswoman said.


Pat Tillman gave up a 3.6 million dollar contract as a defensive
back for the Arizona Cardinals football team to join the US Army
Rangers after the September 11, 2001 attacks on New York and
Washington


His younger brother Kevin also signed up for the Rangers and was
assigned to the same unit, abandoned a promising pro baseball
career.


For more than a month after his death, including at a nationally
televised memorial service, the army persisted in telling the
family that Pat died in an ambush under hostile fire.


"Revealing that Pat's death was a fratricide would have been yet
another political disaster during a month already swollen with
political disasters, and a brutal truth that the American public
would undoubtedly find unacceptable," Kevin told US lawmakers on
Tuesday.

