

Republican Senator John McCain formally launched his bid for the
US presidency on Wednesday, seeking to breathe life into a
faltering campaign that trails in opinion polls and fundraising.


"Today I announce my candidacy for president of the United
States," McCain told a crowd in a televised speech from
Portsmouth, New Hampshire.


He said he would seek to rebuild the US military and strengthen
the United States, saying "no nation complacent in its greatness
can long sustain it."


A former Navy pilot held captive during the Vietnam war, McCain
chose to make his announcement in New Hampshire, the same state
where he scored an upset victory primary victory in the 2000
race.


He was later defeated for the Republican nomination by George W.
Bush, now in his second term as US president.


McCain, an outspoken supporter of the unpopular war in Iraq, said
there were lessons to be learned in the handling of the war.


"In the many mistakes we've made in this war, a few lessons have
become clear," McCain said.


"America should never undertake a war unless we are prepared to
do everything necessary to succeed, unless we have a realistic
and comprehensive plan for success, and unless all relevant
agencies of government are committed to that success."


If elected in 2008, McCain, 70, would be the oldest first-term
president, but the senator argued that he brought the most
experience to the job.


"I'm not the youngest candidate. But I am the most experienced,"
said McCain.


Once considered the favorite for the Republican nomination,
McCain is lagging behind in opinion polls and his rivals have
larger campaign war chests.

