

Finland's new defence minister said Wednesday that Finland, which
shares a long eastern border with Russia, ought to join NATO even
though a majority of Finns remain opposed to the idea.


"A country can never have too many friends when it comes to its
defence policy. That's why I think NATO membership in the long-
term would help Finland's security," Jyri Haekaemies of the
conservatives told Finnish commercial television MTV3.


"During this government's mandate, we are going to assess our
defence policy and draw the necessary conclusions," he said.


Finland, which shares a 1,340-kilometer (830-mile) border with
Russia, has since the end of World War II been neutral in times
of war and militarily non-aligned in peacetime.


But supporters of NATO membership point out that Finland is a
member of NATO's Partnership for Peace programme and has
participated in NATO exercises since 1994.


It has also taken part in various NATO-led operations, such as
the International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) in
Afghanistan.


Finland's new centre-right government that won the March 18
legislative elections has in its policy programme stricken all
references to Finland's "neutrality", retaining only the phrase
"militarily non-aligned".


Prime Minister Matti Vanhanen told parliament on Tuesday that he
planned to "keep (Finland's) options open on NATO membership".


Any step toward joining the alliance would be put before Finns in
a referendum.


But President Tarja Halonen has said she is opposed to such a
plebiscite being held before the end of her second six-year
mandate in 2012.


According to a Gallup poll conducted in November 2006, 59 percent
of Finns are opposed to NATO membership.

