

Bank of America urged Dutch banking group ABN Amro on Wednesday
to honor an agreement on the of LaSalle Bank Corporation to the
US financial giant even if a separate merger is not completed.


ABN Amro had agreed to sell LaSalle bank, its prized US asset, to
Bank of America in deal worth 21 billion dollars. However, the
transaction is dependent on Britain's Barclays bank taking over
ABN Amro in a bigger deal.


Bank of America appeared concerned that its bid to win control of
LaSalle could be placed in jeopardy after three European banks,
led by the Royal Bank of Scotland, launched a 98.4-billion-dollar
counter offer for ABN Amro.


"Bank of America has a legal contract to acquire ABN Amro North
America Holding Company and expects that contract to be fulfilled
under its current terms," Bank of America said in a brief
statement.


The ABN Amro holding firm is LaSalle's parent.


North Carolina-headquartered Bank of America announced its bid
for LaSalle on Monday hoping it would accelerate its expansion,
particularly in the Chicago area.


However, analysts said the RBS-led consortium wants to keep its
hands on the Dutch group's key US asset and would oppose its sale
if it ultimately wins control of ABN Amro.


Under ABN Amro's deal with Barclays, the Dutch firm would sell
LaSalle to Bank of America as a pre-condition for the merger.


ABN Amro said earlier Wednesday that if another bank made a
higher offer for LaSalle, but Bank of America matched it, the US
bank would still win the deal.


"If Bank of America matches, there is no further right to
terminate the contract for a superior proposal," ABN Amro said.


But ABN Amro said it would reconsider its commitment to sell
LaSalle bank to Bank of America if a rival higher offer occurs by
May 6.

