

Kenyan police arrested 11 people suspected of involvement in
terrorism activities in the east African nation, in raids early
Wednesday, police and villagers said.


An anti-terrorism unit of around 60 police arrested the suspects
in their houses in Guraya village and an Islamic school near the
coastal town of Mombasa, said a police official, requesting
anonymity.


A 15-year-old schoolboy, a Muslim preacher and a village elder
who works for the National Museum of Kenya were among those
arrested, the officer said.


Villagers complained that police had used excessive power during
the arrests.


Khadija Swaleh, whose husband was among those detained, said
police broke down her door, grabbed her husband and dragged him
outside.


"He was half-naked because we had been sleeping. They then forced
him onto the ground while it was raining heavily and he lay there
from 2:00 am up to 4:30 am, when they left with him," Swaleh
said.


The arrests came during a visit by National Security Minister
John Michuki to the United States, which has pressed Nairobi to
crack down on supected terrorists.


Kenya has been on alert since January when the government said
suspected Islamist fighters, accused of links to extremist
groups, had fled fighting in Somalia.


East Africa has seen several Al-Qaeda-linked terrorist attacks in
recent years, including the near-simultaneous bombings of the US
embassies in Kenya and Tanzania in August 1998, killing a total
of 224 people and injuring some 5,000.


Al-Qaeda-affiliated attackers bombed an Israeli-owned resort
hotel near Mombasa in November 1992, killing 15 civilians and
three presumed suicide bombers, and unsuccessfully attempted to
shoot down an Israeli airliner there on the same day.


Kenyan Muslims, who account for up to 10 percent of the country's
32 million people, accuse police of singling out their community
for harassment at the behest of US security agencies.

