

Francois Bayrou, the defeated centrist whose 6.8 million voters
are key to France's presidential race, Wednesday refused to
endorse socialist Segolene Royal or right winger Nicolas Sarkozy
in the May 6 run-off.


"I will give no instructions for the vote. I consider that the
French people who voted for me are citizens free to make their
own choice," said Bayrou, whose votes are courted by the
Socialist Royal and right-winger Sarkozy.


Bayrou, whose credibility was boosted by his performance in
Sunday's first round, announced the creation of a new political
party, the Democrat Party, to contest legislative elections in
June.


The centrist launched a scathing attack on both candidates,
saying they were unable to heal France's ailing democratic
institutions, ease social tensions or spur economic growth.


"Nicolas Sarkozy, by his close links to the business world and
media powers, his taste for intimidation and threat, will
concentrate powers as they have never been," Bayrou charged.


"By his character and the themes he has chosen, risks worsening
the social rift through a policy that benefits the richest.


"Segolene Royal appears to have better intentions in terms of
democracy. She seems more attentive to the fabric of our society.


"But her programme is full of state intervention, perpetuating
the illusion that it is up to the state to do everything, that it
can do everything.


"This programme goes exactly against the steps needed to give our
country back its creativity and balance."


Sarkozy and Royal topped the first round of the election last
Sunday to go through to the deciding vote on May 6. The winner
will replace President Jacques Chirac as head of state.

