

Boeing Co. said Wednesday its first-quarter profits lifted 28
percent from a year ago to 877 million dollars and that future
results will be helped by strong demand for its "Dreamliner"
airplane.


The US aviation giant reaffirmed plans to launch its latest
passenger plane, the 787 Dreamliner, in just over a year despite
some "risks" attached to the schedule for top-selling project.


The profit for the January-March quarter amounted to 1.13 dollars
per share, well ahead of the average Wall Street forecast of 1.02
dollars.


Revenues meanwhile grew eight percent from the comparable period
a year before to 15.4 billion dollars.


The company reaffirmed its financial outlook for 2007 and 2008,
citing strength in its core businesses and a record backlog for
new orders.


"These results are in line with our expectations for the quarter
and represent solid progress toward the high goals we have for
ourselves in 2007 and beyond," said Boeing chairman and chief
executive Jim McNerney.


"Our record backlog, increasing productivity, and the progress of
our development programs have us on track to achieve our growth
and profitability objectives."


Boeing said its backlog at quarter-end reached a record 262
billion dollars, up 23 percent in the past 12 months on strength
of the 787 and additional defense orders.


Boeing said its Commercial Airplanes division accounted for an
operating profit of 706 million dollars as revenues rose seven
percent to 7.6 billion dollars.


The company booked 189 aircraft orders during the quarter,
leaving its order book with a backlog of 188 billion dollars.


The 787 program now has 544 firm orders to date from 44
customers, "the most ever achieved by a commercial jet program
within three years of program launch," according to Boeing.


Boeing said final assembly of the first aircraft will start in
this quarter and the program is on schedule for a rollout in July
and test flight in August. The first entry into service remains
set for May 2008.


"While risks inherent in the latter stages of major airplane
development programs remain for the 787, Boeing continues to
expect the 787 will be delivered on time and in accord with its
contractual obligations," the company said.


Boeing's Integrated Defense Systems generated an operating profit
of 784 million dollars on 7.7 billion dollars in sales, helped by
increased deliveries of its F/A-18 warplanes and Chinook
helicopters.


Boeing said profit margins improved after it abandoned its
Connexion service for Internet service in aircraft, and other
expense reductions.


Boeing reaffirmed its target for a profit of between 4.55 and
4.75 dollars per share in 2007 on revenues of 64.5 billion to 65
billion dollars.


For 2008, the company sees a profit in a range of 5.55 to 5.75
dollars per share and revenues of 71 billion to 72 billion
dollars.


Boeing shares fell 0.66 percent to 93.05 dollars in late morning
trade but analysts remained upbeat on the company.


The company "continues to deliver healthy results quarter after
quarter," said Kimberly DuBord at Briefing.com.


"Boeing's execution over the past few years has been exemplary.
The 787 Dreamliner is game-changing and will likely produce
material margin expansion and market share gains over the next
few years."

