

Bangladesh's emergency government on Wednesday said it had lifted
restrictions on two former prime ministers whom it had been
trying to exile.


In a U-turn, the government said it would drop a ban on Sheikh
Hasina Wajed returning to the country and stated there would be
no restriction on the movements of Khaleda Zia.


"The government says clearly that there is no pressure on Khaleda
Zia to go abroad and there have been no restrictions on her
movements," the government said in a statement, read out by
information officer Makhan Lal Hira. Zia has been under virtual
house arrest in recent weeks.


The government had also withdrawn a press note issued on April
18, the statement said, referring to a ban imposed on Sheikh
Hasina returning to the country.


The military-backed interim government had been trying to exile
both women as part of its campaign to clean up the country's
notoriously corrupt politics.


On Sunday it blocked Sheikh Hasina from returning from London
after declaring her a threat to national security. The Awami
League held power between 1996 and 2001.


Zia had reportedly agreed to go into exile in return for leniency
for her two sons, who face corruption allegations.


But attempts to send her to Saudi Arabia hit a stumbling block
early this week after the authorities there became reluctant to
accept an unwilling guest.


A minister earlier Wednesday denied that the government had been
trying to compel the two women to leave Bangladesh, but said Zia
could face corruption charges if she remained.


Sheikh Hasina has already had murder and extortion accusations
filed against her, although she has vowed to return and fight
them in person.


The two women have held power alternately since 1991 and stand
accused of misrule that led to widespread violence and a
political crisis in January.


The government has pledged to hold elections by the end of 2008
after implementing far-reaching reforms to get democracy back on
track.

