

European and Asian environment ministers on Wednesday called for
the need to avoid a drop-off in efforts to combat climate change
when the Kyoto protocol expires in 2012.


Gathering as part of a Europe-Asia ministerial meeting here, some
38 ministers and their delegates issued a declaration on what
they said was the importance of post-Kyoto planning.


The declaration said it was vital to quickly make progress on a
global agreement for 2012.


Danish environment minister Connie Hedegaard said negociations
should take place at a December UN conference on climate issues
in Bali, Indonesia, and an agreement should be reached at the
2009 EU summit in Copenhagen.


"We have to try to bring together the maximum number of countries
possible for an agreement in Copenhagen in 2009," she said.


The United States, though responsible for a quarter of CO2
emissions, has not ratified the Kyoto protocol. Emissions from
China and India are increasing rapidly as the countries develop
and are seen as important to a new agreement.


China is the world's second-largest polluter after the United
States and the world's biggest producer and consumer of coal. The
Chinese government has set a target to supply 16 percent of its
energy from renewable sources by 2020.


Chinese deputy minister Zhou Jian said his government wants to
shift from "fast and healthy growth" to "healthy and fast
growth."


Meeting participants said it was important to decouple economic
growth from energy consumption, as Denmark has been able to do.
The country has seen 70 percent economic growth over the last 25
years without raising its energy consumption, Hedegaard said.

