

Europe's main stock markets closed higher on Wednesday as
investors seized on news of a takeover battle for Dutch banking
group ABN Amro and a positive reading of German business
confidence, dealers say.


In London, the FTSE 100 index gained 0.50 percent to close at
6,461.90 points, while in Paris the CAC 40 reached a six-year
high gaining 1.04 percent to 5,947.33 points and in Frankfurt the
Dax rose one percent to finish at 7,343.08 points.


The euro was trading at 1.3648 dollars -- not far off its record
peak of 1.3666 dollars that was hit on December 30, 2004.


In the United States the leading Dow Jones Industrial Average
stock index smashed the 13,000-point barrier for the first time
in early trade as bullish investors cheered upbeat profit news
from corporate America.


The leading blue chip share gauge soared as high as 13,036.99
points in early morning deals before receding slightly as some
investors opted to cash in recent stock gains.


At morning trade, the Dow was up a hefty 0.50 percent, at
13,019.27 points as Wall Street investors celebrated the index's
record-breaking streak.


Japanese share prices closed in the red on Wednesday as investors
fretted over the health of the US economy and the start of the
domestic corporate results season, dealers said.


In European trade, investors were eyeing a brewing takeover
battle in the banking sector, as well as evidence that business
confidence in Germany climbed in April.


The influential Ifo index rose to 108.6 points in April from
107.7 points in March, putting it just one-tenth of a point away
from the record score of 108.7 points recorded in December.


In the banking sector, three European banks led by Britain's
Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) opened a blockbuster takeover war
for ABN Amro with a 72.0-billion euro bid, eclipsing an agreed
offer from Barclays by five billion euros.


In Amsterdam, shares in Dutch bank ABN Amro surged 3.46 percent
to 36.21 euros.


The RBS consortium, which also comprises Dutch-Belgian group
Fortis and Banco Santander of Spain, said its ABN takeover
proposal was pitched at 39 euros per share, compared with
Barclays' offer of 36.25 euros per share.


In London, RBS shares sank 0.75 percent to 1,998 pence on news of
the informal bid, while Barclays rose 1.61 percent to 724 pence.
In Madrid, Banco Santander shares added 1.12 percent percent to
13.51 euros.


However, back in Amsterdam, Fortis stock dropped 1.74 percent to
33.89 euros.


Elsewhere, other European banks were lifted by the bid news.


In Paris, Societe Generale stock soared 1.75 percent to 151.58
euros, while Deutsche Bank added 1.35 to 113.75 euros in
Frankfurt.


Back in London, supermarket retailer and takeover target J
Sainsbury saw its share price rocket 7.17 percent to 568.0 pence
after a key shareholder offloaded a significant stake, dealers
said.


Elsewhere in Europe, in Milan the SP/Mib index rose 1.04 percent
to 43,755 points, in Amsterdam the AEX rose 0.52 percent to
535.33 points and in Brussels the Bel 20 gained 0.63 percent to
4,641.23 points, a new record.


The Swiss SMI index gained 0.39 percent to 9,429.26 points.


Madrid's Ibex 35 index won 0.29 percent to 14,620.4 points.

