

Iran said Wednesday after talks with Iraq's foreign minister that
it has still not decided to attend a conference on Iraqi security
in Egypt and its final position would be revealed in the coming
days.


"No decision has been taken and we will inform you in the coming
days whether we will participate or whether we will not
participate," Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki told a news
conference with his Iraqi counterpart Hoshyar Zebari.


Iran has until now shown reluctance to commit to the high-level
May 3-4 conference in Sharm el-Sheikh, which will also include
its arch foe the United States, saying it was waiting for
Zebari's visit before announcing a decision.


Mottaki also declined to say whether he would talk to US
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice if he attends the conference,
saying that the situation was hypothetical for the moment.


"When the first part is not definite yet, please allow us to
answer the other questions later," Mottaki said.


US President George W. Bush has said Rice, who is set to attend
the conference, "could" hold talks with Mottaki at the Red Sea
resort should Iran decide to participate.


Mottaki said that Zebari's visit was aimed at clearing up
"ambiguities" that emerged from a lower-level conference on Iraq
in Baghdad earlier this year which Iranian officials did attend.


"The decisions in the Baghdad meeting have brought about some
ambiguities which he is here to shed light on. Then we will
investigate and announce our decisions in this regard."


Zebari said that, while he understood Iran's position, it was
vital that the Islamic republic take part in the conference.


"We are here to give the message of the Iraqi government (to
Iran) to participate in the international conference in Sharm el-
Sheikh. This conference is important," he said.


Iranian officials have expressed doubts about the attendance of
world powers at the conference alongside Iraq's neighbours as
well as the choice of the Red Sea resort as the venue.

