

Defiant Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenko accused pro-Russian
opponents Wednesday of corruption and violating the constitution,
expressing confidence he would win a bitter stand-off.


West-leaning Yushchenko on April 2 ordered the dissolution of
parliament and called early elections, saying the ruling
coalition led by his main rival Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych
had been poaching deputies.


Yanukovych's coalition can currently muster about 250 votes in
parliament, just 50 short of a threshold of 300 needed to make
changes to the constitution and possibly oust Yushchenko.


On Wednesday, the president described the actions of his pro-
Russian opponents as "a grave violation of the spirit and letter
of the constitution."


"I'm convinced that Ukrainian society today clearly understands
the need to hold new elections," Yushchenko said in an interview
with a small group of Western journalists.


"Only new elections can lead to a new acceptance of the
legislative branch of power. The constitution was violated. The
parliament needs to take responsibility."


Yushchenko said he would issue an order delaying early elections
beyond May 27, the date initially set, to a new date but did not
specify when.


Early elections are being held up by a host of obstacles,
including Yanukovych's defiance, questions about financing the
polls, and disputes over the make-up of the country's electoral
commission.


The prime minister has defied the president's decision to
dissolve parliament, arguing that it was legitimately elected at
polls last year that were given a clean bill of health by the
international community.


The three-week stand-off has paralysed government in this post-
Soviet country and brought thousands of protestors to the streets
nearly daily since the start of the month.

