

Over 100 academics oppose the planned contruction of a high-speed
train tunnel under Barcelona's Sagrada Familia cathedral on the
grounds that it could damage the unfinished Spanish landmark, an
official said Wednesday.


"We have the signatures of over 100 university professors who say
this tunnel should not be built," the chief architect overseeing
completion of the cathedral, Jordi Bonet, told a news conference
in Madrid.


The planned tunnel is part of a future extension toward France of
the high-speed rail link between Madrid and Barcelona, Spain's
second-largest city.


While the tunnel is expected to pass dozens of metres below the
surface, Bonet said vibrations from the trains could open cracks
in the building or cause the ground underneath it to become
unsteady.


"We hope common sense will block the road to this dangerous
enterprise," he added.


The Roman Catholic temple, designed by legendary architect
Antonio Gaudi, draws some 2.5 million visitors each year, making
it Spain's top attractions ahead of Granada's Alhambra Palace and
Madrid's Prado Museum.


It started being built in 1882 and is only expected to be
completed in 2030.


The president of the consortium in charge of completing the
cathedral, Joan Rigol, meanwhile called on the government to
change the tunnel's route.


"We must prevent this project from being built below the Sagrada
Familia to avoid any sort of risk," he said before adding legal
action could be taken if the project goes ahead.


The tunnel has not yet received the green light from the public
works ministry and it is still being studied, the public agency
which manages Spain's railway infrastructure, Adif, said.


The Archbishop of Barcelona, Lluis Martinez Sistach, has also
opposed the project, as have thousands of local residents who
have taken to the streets in protest in the past.

