

The White House on Wednesday said Japan "needs to find a way" to
lay to rest difficult disputes over World War II issues that
upset relations with neighbors like China and South Korea.


US President George W. Bush has made that point to Japanese Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe, who was due here Thursday and Friday for
wide-ranging talks, Bush's top East Asia adviser at the national
security council told reporters.


"The point the president makes is that historical issues are
tough," Dennis Wilder said in a briefing previewing the prime
minister's visit.


But "Japan, as a modern democratic nation, needs to find a way to
place these issues behind it so it can move forward in
cooperation with its neighbors," he added.


Japan's conservative government, seeking to end a row over sexual
slavery by its troops in World War II, said Friday it accepted
post-war trials that found the military responsible.


Abe sparked controversy last month by saying there was no
evidence the imperial army directly coerced thousands of so-
called "comfort women" into brothels across Asia.


The prime minister has since stressed he stands by Japan's
landmark 1993 apology to the women. Bush praised Abe's "candor"
on the issue in a telephone conversation early this month,
according to the White House.


"The president believes that prime minister Abe has done a lot to
clear up the misunderstandings in the last couple of weeks on
this issue," said Wilder.


He "has indicated that the official position of Japan has not
changed and that he personally apologizes for the horrible things
that happened to those women," said the official.


"I don't think this is going to be a major issue of the visit
because the two have discussed these issues in depth," he said.

