

Former German swimming star Franziska Van Almsick attacked her
country's swimming federation on Wednesday after last month's
poor show at the world championships and has offered her help.


Germany finished sixth in the medal table, winning only two
golds, and the 29 -year-old Olympic medallist has offered to lend
her help so Germany can challenge the United States, Russia and
Australia at next year's Beijing Olympics.


"Nobody should be surprised at the results in Melbourne and there
will not be an improvement unless the swimming federation starts
acting more professionally," Van Almsick told German sports
magazine Sport-Bild.


"They should listen to someone who has swum many times for the
federation and I have always said I am ready to talk, if anyone
asks for my help, I'll be there."


The two-time world champion and 18-time European champion saw
where the mistakes were made in Melbourne and has urged the
German Swimming Federation (DSV) to correct their mistakes.


"The Germans only arrived a few days before the competition
started and then wondered why they couldn't swim properly," she
said.


However, Van Almsick, who won her first Olympic medal in 1992
aged 14, insists current German coach Oerjan Madsen should not
shoulder the sole responsibility for what happened in Melbourne.


"He worked hard, but he can't do it all and maybe his hands are
tied.


"Sometimes you feel like you are running against a brick wall
when it comes to the federation."


But Madsen, a Norwegian, put his hand up this week to admit he
made several mistakes.


"As a coach it was my task to prepare the team for a successful
world championship and to ensure the coaches and swimmers are all
happy," said Madsen.


"Measured against that criteria, I failed."

