

Francis Bacon thought they were rubbish, but the painter's
discarded works and artefacts raised nearly one million pounds at
auction, newspapers reported Wednesday.


Electrician Mac Robertson, while working at Bacon's west London
studio in 1978, persuaded the artist to let him keep a host of
material earmarked for the skip.


The discarded paintings, diaries, photographs, cheque stubs and
other clutter fetched 965,490 pounds (1.93 million dollars, 1.42
million euros) at auction Tuesday.


Several of the 45 lots sold went well over their estimated price
at the small Ewbank fine art auction house in Woking, southwest
of London.


The most expensive work, an untitled portrait listed at
12,000-18,000 pounds, sold for 400,000 pounds to a telephone
bidder.


A painting of a reclining dog, estimated at 2,000-3,000 pounds,
sold for 260,000 pounds.


Some paintings had holes in them, while some of the diaires were
blank.


"Bacon was renowned for self-editing his work and if he wasn't
satisfied, he would cut out the parts he didn't like. Sometimes
it would be a chin or an ear," said Chris Proudlove, on behalf of
Ewbank.


"There have been few, if any, auctions of the kind of the
material in this archive, so we had no precedence on which to
base estimates," he added.


Bacon, who ran a famously chaotic studio, threatened to throw all
the items in a skip, but allowed Robertson to take some of it.


"He filled three bin bags," Proudlove said.


In February, Christie's auction house sold a Bacon painting
belonging to Italian actress Sophia Loren for 14.2 million
pounds, making it the most his expensive work of art ever.


Born in Dublin to English parents, Bacon died in April 1992 aged
82.

