

Britain's economy expanded by 0.7 percent in the first quarter of
2007 compared with the last three months of 2006, aided by a
strong services sector, official data showed Wednesday.


Analysts said the figures strengthened expectations that the Bank
of England's rate-setting Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) would
increase borrowing costs next month -- with another hike likely
before the end of the year.


Gross domestic product (GDP) grew by 2.8 percent during the three
months to March 31, 2007 from the same quarter in the previous
year, the Office for National Statistics said in an initial
estimate.


The quarterly figure was stronger then analysts' consensus
forecasts for growth of 0.6 percent, while the annual reading was
in line with expectations.


"The continued strength of economic activity in the first quarter
of this year is likely to heighten the MPC's concerns that a
strong demand environment is boosting firms' ability to raise
their prices," said Capital Economics analyst Paul Dales.


"With a May interest rate hike already pretty much a done deal,
today's (Wednesday's) figures provide further support for our
view that interest rates will rise further after May," said
Dales, adding that rates could strike 5.75 percent as early as
June.


Investec economist David Page agreed.


"We think that the lack of economic slowdown will push the MPC
not only to one more hike in May, but one more beyond that too,"
he said.


The MPC had opted to keep British interest rates at 5.25 percent
earlier this month.


However, official data subsequently revealed that annual British
inflation had surged to 3.1 percent in March.


The news forced BoE governor Mervyn King to write an
unprecedented letter to British finance minister Gordon Brown,
explaining why annual inflation had breached a government-set
ceiling of 3.0 percent.

