

An election-year mud-slinging battle in the top ranks of
Australian politicians cost a second member of Prime Minister
John Howard's cabinet his job on Friday.


Minister for Ageing Santo Santoro announced his resignation over
a share scandal, just two weeks after Human Services Minister Ian
Campbell quit over a meeting with a disgraced former state
premier.


Santoro said he resigned because a revelation that he failed to
immediately sell stocks in a biotechnology company after being
appointed to his health-related portfolio in 2006 led to the
discovery of "further oversights".


"I have done this because the recent publicity surrounding my
former shareholdings in CBio has brought to my attention further
oversights in relation to the proper declaration of my personal
investment," he said.


Santoro said he never intended to be dishonest.


"Nevertheless I have neglected to properly report a number of
investments to the prime minister and to the senate," he said.


The opposition Labor Party has also been hit by the fallout, with
shadow attorney-general Kelvin Thomson resigning last week after
it was revealed he gave a glowing reference to a fugitive
mobster.


The resignations came hard on the heels of an initial attack by
Howard and his ministers on the integrity of Labor's popular new
leader, Kevin Rudd.


Howard pilloried Rudd for having met three times in 2005 with
disgraced former Labor state premier Brian Burke, who was twice
jailed and now operates as a lobbyist.


When it transpired that one of Howard's own ministers had met
Burke last year he was sacked, clearing the way for the
government to maintain its attacks on Rudd.


However, recent opinion polls have shown that Rudd and centre-
left Labor have maintained a strong lead over Howard and his
conservative Liberal-National coalition ahead of elections due by
the end of the year.

