

The dollar fell sharply in Asian trade after cautious comments
from former Federal Reserve chairman Allan Greenspan added to
nervousness about the US economic outlook, dealers said.


The dollar dropped to 116.81 yen in Tokyo morning from 117.64 yen
late Thursday in New York.


The euro rose to 1.3295 dollars from 1.3232 but fell to 155.39
yen from 155.61.


"The dollar has been heavy, sold down against the euro and also
weak against the yen," said Shigeru Nakane, senior client manager
at Resona Bank.


"Stock markets are returning to normal after the recent panicky
sell-off around the world but the rebound has been moderate and
not stable. That's also keeping investors from buying up the
dollar," he said.


Markets reacted nervously to the latest remarks from Greenspan,
who told a conference in Florida that US home loan problems could
spill over into the wider economy, but that there was no evidence
of it yet.


With a long US property boom now fading into memory, mortgage
delinquencies and defaults are on the rise, especially at the
lower or "sub-prime" level among people with poor credit scores
and those who borrowed beyond their means.


Overnight Thursday in the United States the dollar was mixed as
traders digested a strong US inflation report and disappointing
manufacturing surveys.


A report showed a minimal level of expansion in manufacturing
activity in the Philadelphia region, confounding market
expectations for a jump.


US producer prices rose 1.3 percent in February from January
compared with a 0.5 percent gain expected by the market,
suggesting that the Federal Reserve would be unable to lower US
interest rates any time soon, dealers said.


That in turn supported "carry trade" operations, where money is
borrowed in countries with low interest rates such as Japan and
invested in higher yielding currencies elsewhere, they said.

