

The dollar fell back in Asian trade Friday after cautious
comments from former Federal Reserve chairman Allan Greenspan
added to nervousness about the US economic outlook, dealers said.


The dollar dropped to 117.14 yen in Tokyo afternoon deals from
117.64 yen late Thursday in New York.


The euro rose to 1.3294 dollars from 1.3232 and to 155.73 yen
after 155.61.


"The dollar has been heavy, sold down against the euro and also
weak against the yen," said Shigeru Nakane, senior client manager
at Resona Bank.


"Stock markets are returning to normal after the recent panicky
sell-off around the world but the rebound has been moderate and
not stable. That's also keeping investors from buying up the
dollar," he said.


Markets reacted nervously to the latest remarks from Greenspan,
who told a conference in Florida that US home loan problems could
spill over into the wider economy, but that there was no evidence
of it yet.


With a long US property boom now fading into memory, mortgage
delinquencies and defaults are on the rise, especially at the
lower or "sub-prime" level among people with poor credit scores
and those who borrowed beyond their means.


Overnight Thursday in the United States the dollar was mixed as
traders digested a strong US inflation report and disappointing
manufacturing surveys.


Another report showed a minimal level of expansion in
manufacturing activity in the Philadelphia region, confounding
market expectations for a jump.


US producer prices rose 1.3 percent in February from January
compared with the 0.5 percent gain expected by the market,
suggesting that the Federal Reserve would be unable to lower US
interest rates any time soon, dealers said.


That in turn supported "carry trade" operations, where money is
borrowed in countries with low interest rates such as Japan and
invested in higher yielding currencies elsewhere, they said.


The dollar was broadly higher against most of the Asian units,
rising to 944.90 South Korean won from 944.70 on Thursday, to
9,216.00 Indonesian rupiah from 9,212 and to 48.80 Philippine
pesos from 48.64.


It also rose to 33.06 Taiwan dollars from 33.05 but fell to 34.91
Thai baht from 35.01 and to 1.5291 Singapore dollars from 1.5328.

