

Thousands of Cambodians jammed the capital's streets Friday as
campaigning began for next month's local polls, with raucous
marches and motorscooters adorned with political party flags.


A clear anti-corruption message emerged from the crowds that is
likely to become the central theme of the April 1 elections for
local administrative bodies known as commune councils.


"We will eliminate corruption in order to bring justice to
society and to make all Cambodians live together in prosperity,"
opposition leader Sam Rainsy said as he led a procession of
dozens of trucks packed with supporters.


His self-named Sam Rainsy Party is one of 12 contesting the
elections, which will set the stage for national polls next year
that are widely expected to see the ruling Cambodian People's
Party (CPP) take sole control of government.


Despite the obvious strength of the CPP, which up to now has
ruled Cambodia in coalition with the country's royalists, Sam
Rainsy said he was confident the opposition would make
significant gains.


He said he hoped the party would take control of hundreds of the
country's 1,621 communes, which are the most basic level of
administration but are plagued by graft.


Anti-corruption efforts are a key demand of impoverished
Cambodia's foreign donors, who had repeatedly taken Prime
Minister Hun Sen's government to task for failing to tackle the
issue.


Corruption legislation has yet to be passed, despite government
promises to do so by the end of last year.


Cambodia was ranked 151 out of 163 countries in Transparency
International's 2006 Corruption Perceptions Index, released in
November.

