

Malaysia on Friday issued licences to four telecommunication
operators to provide fourth generation (4G) wireless high speed
Internet services nationwide this year.


The Malaysian Communications and Multimedia Commission (MCMC)
said the winning bidders are Bizsurf (M) Sdn Bhd, MIB Comm Sdn
Bhd, Redtone-CNX Broadband Sdn Bhd and Asiaspace Dotcom Sdn Bhd.


Bizsurf is a unit of YTL e-Solutions, which is part of Malaysian
conglomerate YTL Group with interests ranging from construction
to property and power.


In a statement, MCMC said all licences, except Redtone-CNX's, are
for peninsular Malaysia. Redtone-CNX will operate its WiMAX
licence in East Malaysia on Borneo island.


The companies are expected to invest up to 300 million ringgit
(85.7 million dollars) within the first three years of the
service, MCMC said.


It said the rolling out of the WiMAX 2.3 gigahertz spectrum
network nationwide is part of the government's target for
broadband penetration to reach 75 percent of households by 2010.


"We expect winners to quickly roll out the service to 25 percent
of the population in the area given to them by the end of the
year with a service provision of at least 1MBps at affordable
rates," MCMC said.


"At the end of the third year, it is expected that they will be
able to roll services to at least 40 percent of the population,"
it said.


The original tender attracted bids from 17 companies, including
Malaysia's largest mobile operator Maxis Communications and DiGi
Telecommunications.


WiMAX stands for Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access
and is similar to the more familiar WiFi (wireless fidelity) that
most laptops are equipped with.


WiMAX has a higher capacity and operates across much longer
distances and allows for voice, video, Internet and mobility
services.


Chip maker Intel and manufacturer Motorola are investing heavily
in WiMAX and deployments of the system are taking shape
worldwide.

