

Hong Kong share prices opened 0.65 percent lower Friday on fresh
worries that China may announce further measures to tighten
credit and slow economic growth, dealers said.


They said the fears were renewed by economic data announced
Thursday, which showed China's industrial output expanding by
18.5 percent in the first two months of 2007, a figure that was
stronger than expected.


That data came on top of other recent economic indicators from
the mainland, including a record trade surplus of 23.8 billion US
dollars in February and loan growth accelerating to 17.2 percent.


Fixed asset investment figures out Friday were also strong but
slightly down on the rate for 2006.


Dealers said a weaker Japanese market and continuing concerns
over the US mortgage sector also dampened investor sentiment.


The Hang Seng Index opened down 122.95 points at 18,846.49. By
mid-morning, the index was down 129.12 points or 0.69 percent at
18,840.66, off a low of 18,770.28 and high of 18,887.03.


Turnover was a thin 8.6 billion dollars (1.1 billion US).


"The prospects of more austerity measures being taken by Beijing
in the short- term have made many investors cautious," said Kitty
Chan, director at Celestial Asia Securities Holdings.


"This is the reason why many H-shares are under some selling
pressure," she said.


Investors are also anxious about what signals the US Federal
Reserve might give following its policy meeting next week, she
said.


"Investors in the property sector have taken a wait-and-see
stance, they are refraining from taking active positions until
after the Fed meeting next week," Chan said.


The Fed will hold a two-day policy meeting starting Tuesday. It
is expected to keep rates on hold but investors will be watching
its accompanying statement closely for clues on future rate
prospects.


China Mobile was down 0.20 dollars or 0.29 percent at 68.45
dollars, Hutchison Whampoa dropped 0.35 at 72.10 and HSBC fell
0.60 or 0.45 percent at 133.70.

