

A high-profile Chinese AIDS campaigner who travelled to the
United States to receive a human rights award said Thursday she
feared further harassment from authorities when she returned
home.


"I am very concerned that the authorities will find new ways to
keep me down when I return," Gao Yaojie, 80, told Radio Free Asia
after receiving an award on Wednesday from Vital Voices Global
Partnership, a women's advocacy group of which US Senator Hillary
Clinton is honorary co-chair.


"I am particularly worried about my family," said Gao, who had
devoted the past decade to helping poor farmers who contracted
HIV/AIDS from selling blood in unsanitary government-approved
collection schemes.


Chinese officials has initially wanted to prevent her from coming
the United States to collect the award but relented after Chinese
President Hu Jintao's intervention.


Clinton had appealed to Hu to allow Gao to travel to Washington
after she was confined to her home in central China by local
authorities in an apparent bid to stop her from receiving the
award.


Gao said that "the largest part" of HIV transmissions in China
occurred "through the blood trade."


"The epidemic is different in China from anywhere else because I
have spoken to AIDS groups here in the United States and they say
it is mostly transmitted through sex and intravenous drug use,"
she said.


"Most of the cases I have seen weren't transmitted sexually. They
were transmitted through blood transfusions," she said.


After a long career as a physician in Henan Province, Gao has
spent her retirement working to raise awareness about HIV and
AIDS.

