

The head of Banco Delta Asia (BDA), the Macau bank at the centre
of US financial sanctions against North Korea, Friday denied
knowing that customers were engaged in money laundering.


Chairman Stanley Au said he would close the concerned account but
vowed to continue appealing the ruling imposed by the US Treasury
Department, which formally bars US banks from any dealings with
BDA.


The move effectively cut off the family-owned bank from the
global financial system, but cleared the way to unfreeze North
Korean funds in the bank as part of an international deal to end
North Korea's nuclear programmes.


"Delta Asia Financial Group (owner of BDA) denied that BDA knew
or suspected that its customers were engaged in money laundering
or that any of its customers were engaged in any criminal
activity or their funds were in any way connected with such
activity," Au said.


He said he had met "very few" North Koreans in the past but
denied having contact with anybody from the isolated Stalinist
state since September 2005.


"Delta Asia Group expects to continue to appeal against this rule
and to seek further dialogue and cooperation with the US
Department of Treasury," Au said.


Macau's Monetary Authority took control of BDA in late 2005,
after the United States declared it a "primary money laundering
concern", and froze 24 million dollars in assets belonging to
North Korea.


The dispute over the funds stalled the six-nation talks on ending
Pyongyang's nuclear ambitions, although an agreement was finally
reached on February 13.


Au also said the bank was waiting on Macau authorities to inform
him whether he or his shareholders would be allowed to continue
to run the bank, adding that he was "confident" that he would be
able to do so.

