

The chief suspect in the September 11, 2001, attacks, Khalid
Sheikh Mohammed, confessed to beheading US journalist Daniel
Pearl "with my blessed right hand," the Pentagon said Thursday.


The confession came during a closed-door hearing Saturday at the
US naval base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, as Mohammed, the number
three leader of the Al-Qaeda terror network, claimed
responsibility for 31 plots around the world, including the 2001
attacks on New York and Washington.


"I decapitated with my blessed right hand the head of the
American Jew, Daniel Pearl, in the city of Karachi, Pakistan,"
Mohammed said in a statement he wrote, which was read to the
hearing by a military officer representing him.


"For those who would like to confirm, there are pictures of me on
the Internet holding his head," he said.


Pearl, 38, was the South Asia bureau chief for The Wall Street
Journal when he was abducted in the southern Pakistani city of
Karachi on January 23, 2002, while researching a story about
Islamic militants.


His kidnapping triggered a massive manhunt across Pakistan, as
his French wife, Mariane, who was heavily pregnant with the
couple's first child, maintained an anxious vigil.


Four weeks later a graphic video showing Pearl's decapitation was
delivered to the US consulate in Karachi. His remains were later
found in a compound on the outskirts of the city.


Ruth and Judea Pearl, the parents of the beheaded journalist,
said they were treating Mohammed's statement cautiously.


"It is impossible to know at this point whether Khalid Sheikh
Mohammed's boast about killing our son has any bearing in truth,"
they said in a statement to AFP from their home in Encino,
California.


"We prefer to focus our energy on continuing Danny's lifework
through the programs of the Daniel Pearl Foundation which aim to
eradicate the hatred that took his life."


The Defense Department had blacked out Mohammed's claim to his
personal role in Pearl's killing in the initial release Wednesday
of his statement until the reporter's family had been notified,
Pentagon spokesman Bryan Whitman said.


The Pentagon released an amended transcript of the hearing on
Thursday that restored the previously deleted passages about
Pearl's beheading.


In an oral statement, Mohammed, who is Pakistani, said Pearl's
beheading was not an Al-Qaeda operation.


"It's like beheading Daniel Pearl," he said. "It's not related to
Al-Qaeda. It was shared in Pakistani. Other group, Mujahedeen."


Pearl, who was based in Bombay, had traveled to Pakistan to
investigate the connections between Al-Qaeda and Richard Reid, a
British convert to Islam who tried to detonate explosives in his
shoes on a trans-Atlantic commercial flight.


Mohammed claimed at his hearing that Pearl had been sent by
Israeli intelligence Mossad and by the US Central Intelligence
Agency to find out more about Reid, according to the transcript.


British-born Islamist militant Ahmed Omar Saeed Sheikh was
convicted in June 2002 of Pearl's murder and sentenced to death.
The sentence is currently under appeal. Three accomplices were
given life terms.


Omar's lawyer, Mohsin Imam, said in September last year that he
would use the new memoirs of Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf
in the appeal because the book indicated that Mohammed and
another man had killed Pearl.


A new film, "A Mighty Heart," based on the book of the same name
written by Mariane Pearl, is set for release later this year.


Shot in India, it stars Angelina Jolie as Mariane Pearl, and Dan
Futterman as the journalist, and is being produced by Jolie's
partner Brad Pitt.

