

Australian share prices closed down 0.29 percent Friday as
sentiment remained cautious following the heavy sell-off earlier
in the week on concerns at mounting problems in the US housing
market, dealers said.


They said investors were likely to remain wary given the
uncertainty over the US economic outlook as defaults on US
mortgages increase, raising questions over the wider possible
fallout on the economy.


The key S&P/ASX 200 dropped 16.7 points at 5,836.3 while the
broader All Ordinaries index fell 14.0 points to 5,817.8.


Turnover was 1.74 billion shares worth 7.92 billion dollars (6.27
billion US) as falls led gains 596 to 574, with 361 stocks
unchanged.


AMP Capital Investor head of investment strategy Shane Oliver
said the market was helped by the strength in consumer and health
care stocks as well as resources, supported by strong commodity
prices.


"The volatility of the past week provides a reminder that the
share market correction is not necessarily over and that the US
economy is the real issue, not the Chinese share market," Oliver
said.


A sharp fall in Chinese stocks at the end of last month sparked
off an initial round of heavy losses on global markets in early
March, with the latest downturn coming earlier this week on news
of a sharp rise in US mortgage defaults.


Shares in market heavyweight miner BHP Billiton rose 0.29 dollars
to 27.80 dollars while rival Rio Tinto added 0.36 to 73.70.


Other miners also gained, with Alumina up 0.02 to 7.03, Zinifex
up 0.05 to 16.19 and Iluka up 0.03 at 5.52.


Major energy stocks were lower with Woodside Petroleum down 0.20
to 36.10 Santos off 0.03 to 9.68 and Oil Search 0.05 lower at
3.50.


The big banks were mixed. ANZ gained 0.10 to 28.95 and Westpac
added 0.11 to 25.76 while National Australia Bank fell 0.22 to
40.15 and Commonwealth Bank shed 0.53 to 49.05. Macquarie Bank
eased 0.90 to 79.40.


Qantas Airways was up 0.02 at 5.14 after it said it expects
earnings for the year to June 2007 profit to be at the upper end
of a projected 30-40 percent rise.

