

The head of Bangladesh's military-backed interim government has
warned officials not to harass the poor while carrying out orders
to root out corruption, a report said Friday.


"Maintain caution so that innocent persons or institutions are
not subject to harassment. Particularly be careful about poor and
hapless people," the private UNB news agency quoted caretaker
chief Fakhruddin Ahmed as saying.


Ahmed, whose government has spearheaded a massive anti-corruption
campaign since it took office on January 12, was addressing
officials in the southeastern town of Cox's Bazar.


Caretaker government cabinet secretary Ali Imam Majumdar, who
also spoke at Thursday's meeting there, urged officials to file
cases "not against the poor... rather against those who grabbed
land for greed, amassing property and maintaining a lavish life,"
the report added.


Ahmed's government was installed a day after President Iajuddin
Ahmed stepped down as head of the previous interim government,
cancelled disputed elections and imposed emergency rule.


The new interim government has pledged to clean up Bangladeshi
politics before reinstating democracy and holding credible
elections.


The previous polls, which had been scheduled for January 22, were
cancelled amid violent protests and opposition accusations of
vote-rigging against the outgoing coalition government led by the
Bangladesh Nationalist Party (BNP).


As part of its anti-corruption campaign, the interim government
has detained at least 45 prominent figures on graft allegations
and is investigating hundreds more.


It has also embarked on a nationwide demolition programme
targeting illegally- built structures.


A leading commentator, Zafar Sobhan, alleged last month that BNP
loyalists within the interim government had ordered a number of
unauthorised slum clearances in an attempt to undermine support
for the interim government.

