

Singapore and Indonesia have agreed to set a date for ministers
and military officials to discuss an extradition treaty and
defence cooperation pact, the Singapore ministry of foreign
affairs said.


Foreign Minister George Yeo met his Indonesian counterpart Hassan
Wirajuda on the sidelines of a meeting between the European Union
and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) in
Germany, it said late Thursday.


Singapore and Indonesia are members of the 10-nation ASEAN bloc.


They have been at odds over Indonesian resource exports to
Singapore as well as alleged foot-dragging by Singapore on an
extradition treaty that would allow Jakarta to recover allegedly
illicit assets of Indonesians in the city-state.


"On joint negotiations to conclude the Extradition Treaty and the
Defence Cooperation Agreement, both ministers agreed to set an
early date for the foreign and defence ministers to meet together
with representatives from the armed forces," the statement said.


The statement also said the Indonesian minister clarified that
Jakarta was not considering a proposal to ban granite exports to
Singapore, whose recovering construction industry depends heavily
on imported materials.


Indonesian media have cited Hassan and other ministers as saying
the government was mulling a ban on granite exports.


Jakarta already banned the export of sand to Singapore in
January, saying it was intended to protect the environment,
although critics say the move was aimed at pressuring the city-
state into signing an extradition treaty.


A number of suspects wanted in Indonesia on corruption charges
have fled to Singapore to escape the reach of Indonesian justice,
officials in Jakarta allege.

