

China's annual session of parliament closed on Friday after
approving a motion to curb the excesses of runaway economic
growth and endorsing a sharp rise in military spending, as well
as two landmark laws.


The 12-day session of the National People's Congress wrapped up
after overwhelmingly approving Premier Wen Jiabao's work report,
with 99.1 percent of the 2,889 lawmakers present voting in
favour.


The parliament, regarded as a rubber-stamp body of appointed
delegates, approved the nation's budget with 87.6 percent
support.


In his work report delivered on the opening day of the congress,
Wen called for more efforts to balance China's booming economy
with protecting the environment and bridging the widening gap
between rich and poor.


"We should ... avoid seeking only faster growth and competing for
faster growth," Wen said in the address.


Among measures approved in the budget to rebalance the economy
was an 86.8-percent rise in spending on health care in 2007 to 31
billion yuan (four billion dollars).


Education spending will increase 41.7 percent in 2007 year to
85.8 billion yuan (11 billion dollars).


The work report also set an economic growth target of "about 8.0
percent", down from 10.7 percent recorded in 2006.


Among the other major budget initiatives announced during the
parliamentary session were a 17.8-percent rise in military
spending to 347.2 billion yuan (45 billion dollars).


One of the two landmark pieces of legislation passed was on
corporate income tax, which ended special benefits for foreign
firms and unified the rate for local and non-Chinese companies at
25 percent.


The other law that was passed, on property rights, had caused
great controversy by offering protection to both the government
and private sector. However, this passed with 96.9 percent
support.


The National People's Congress has never opposed a party or
government initiative since it was established after the founding
of the People's Republic in 1949.

