

Japanese share prices fell 0.92 percent in morning trade Friday
as investors remained wary about a stronger yen and problems
brewing in the US housing sector, dealers said.


They said the market was cautious despite modest overnight gains
on Wall Street, with sentiment still fragile after the recent
sharp falls on global bourses.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's benchmark Nikkei-225 index of leading
shares fell 155.46 points to hit 16,704.93 at the lunch break.


The TOPIX index of all issues on the Tokyo Stock Exchange's first
section dropped 19.16 points or 1.13 percent to 1,675.02.


Decliners outpaced gainers 1,223 to 380, with 122 stocks flat.


Volume dipped 1.13 billion shares from 1.17 billion Thursday
morning.


"Sentiment was dampened by uncertainties about the US economic
situation," said Hiroaki Hiwada, a strategist at Toyo Securities.


Hiwada said mixed US data overnight also led some in the market
to speculate that a Fed interest rate cut "would not be happening
anytime soon."


US producer prices jumped by 1.3 percent in February, twice the
amount the market was forecasting.


Dealers said investors will likely remain cautious ahead of US
consumer price inflation data for February due Friday and next
week's two-day Federal Reserve monetary policy meeting.


"Also, institutional participants tend to refrain from active
buying at the end of the fiscal year (on March 31), a factor that
tends to weigh on share prices overall. But they will return to
the market when the new fiscal year starts from April," Hiwada
said.


Toshiba Corp rose 14 yen or 1.8 pct to 772 after the Nikkei
business daily reported, without citing any sources, that the
company plans to increase its annual dividend to 10-11 yen per
share from 6.5 yen the previous fiscal year.


Nissan Motor dropped 10 yen to 1,286 after the same newspaper
reported that the automaker will reduce production at two more
plants from April amid sluggish sales in Japan.


Select consumer electronics makers were in demand. Sony rose 30
yen or 0.5 percent to 5,990, Sharp gained 30 or 1.4 percent to
2,195 and Matsushita Electric Industrial advanced 10 or 0.4
percent to 2,345.

