

The Indian state of West Bengal was paralysed Friday by a general
strike over the killing by police of 14 villagers protesting over
forced land purchases to make way for industrial parks.


Schools, colleges, shops and offices shut down across the eastern
state, leaving the streets of the capital Kolkata nearly empty,
West Bengal's inspector general of police Raj Kanojia said.


Some cases of arson and clashes between strikers and supporters
of the state's ruling communist party were reported early in the
day but the "violence is not widespread," he said.


"Protestors have smashed a number of commuter buses and set up
road blocks in different parts of the state," Kanojia said,
adding many protestors had been taken into custody and thousands
of security personnel deployed.


Soumitra Majumdar, a spokesman for Eastern Railways, said train
services had been severely disrupted with long-distance trains
halted, as protestors squatted on railway tracks.


Friday's strike, called by an opposition alliance led by the
regional Trinamool Congress party, came two days after police
fired on villagers opposed to the compulsory purchase of farmland
for Special Economic Zones (SEZs).


Police said they fired in self-defence as a mob hurled stones and
homemade bombs. Some 71 people were injured, including policemen,
in Nandigram, 120 kilometres (75 miles) south of Kolkata.


Wednesday's unrest was the bloodiest yet over Communist-ruled
West Bengal's plans to purchase land in Nandigram to set up a SEZ
chemical industry hub backed by the Salim Group, an Indonesian
conglomerate.


In January, protests over the project in which 11 people died led
the government to suspend plans for scores of SEZs -- privately-
run enclaves with world-class infrastructure and tax breaks that
are seen as central to India's drive to boost economic growth and
draw foreign investment.

