

A private television channel said Friday that Pakistani
authorities have banned it from airing a popular news programme
amid a crisis sparked by the sacking of the country's top judge.


The Pakistan Electronic Media Regulatory Authority ordered Geo
television to stop airing its flagship daily news programme
"Today with Kamran Khan" till further orders, a Geo spokesman
said in a statement published in newspapers.


The channel broadcast an apology to viewers Thursday night,
saying the programme, which had included debates on the judicial
issue, could not be aired due to media restrictions.


"I never knew that the government would get so desperate and
would lose patience so soon with this free flow of information,"
host Kamran Khan, an investigative journalist, said in a
statement.


The move comes as security forces braced for protests across the
country Friday following President Pervez Musharraf's sacking of
Chief Justice Iftikhar Mohammad Chaudhry a week ago.


The New York-based Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ)
denounced the government's move.


"The rush to roll back press freedom in Pakistan is
accelerating," said Bob Dietz, CPJ's Asia program coordinator.


"Under increasing political pressure at home and abroad, the
Musharraf government is resorting to heavy-handed tactics in
dealing with critics and the independent media.


"We call on President Musharraf to live up to his stated
commitment to freedom of the press and stop what appears to be
retaliation against Geo TV for critical coverage."


Global media watchdog Reporters Without Borders this week slammed
Pakistani authorities for allegedly suspending broadcasts by Geo
and rival Aaj television after they screened footage on Monday of
clashes between police and lawyers.


The United States on Thursday expressed "deep concern" at the
judicial crisis. Police detained nearly 100 opposition activists
overnight ahead of Friday's protests.

