

China wants a tough European coach to rescue its struggling
women's football squad just six months ahead of the World Cup,
according to media reports here Friday.


The demoralised team has been on a downward spiral for months and
this week lost its caretaker coach who stepped down just two
months after the head coach abandoned the squad citing ill
health.


China's Football Association has set the squad a minimum target
of a semi-final place at the World Cup and pundits say that only
a tough European can restore confidence in time for the September
tournament which China will host.


Top of the list is Marika Domanski-Lyfors, coach of the Swedish
women's World Cup squad for nine years and described as "tougher
than any male coach," according to the Titan sports newspaper.


She is already in talks with the association and is expected to
be named shortly to replace Ma Liangxing, it said.


Harshly criticised for the team's declining fortunes, Ma took
sick leave in January suffering from heart problems and has never
returned.


Reports here said that the top women's football job had initially
been offered to Tina Theune-Meyer, who guided Germany to victory
in the 2003 World Cup.


She declined citing domestic reasons but recommended a list of
women coaches that included Domanski-Lyfors.


"Talks with the Swedish side are already under way," the paper
quoted Chinese officials as saying.


Domanski-Lyfors stepped down after nine years as Sweden's top
coach in 2005 but still works for the Swedish football federation
and coaches the under-21 side.


She led Sweden to the 2003 World Cup final which they lost to
Germany.


China's women's team, known as the "steel roses," return this
weekend from Europe in disgrace, having lost six games in a row,
including defeats to Iceland and Finland.


China have slipped to ninth place in women's football standings
in the years since they lost by one penalty goal to the United
States in the final of the 1999 World Cup.

