

China's parliament on Friday passed a long-anticipated law that
will unify tax rates for local and foreign companies, adding
billions of dollars to the total tax bill paid by non-Chinese
firms.


A total of 2,826 lawmakers voted for the law, or 97.8 percent of
those present in Beijing's Great Hall of the People on the final
day of the annual full session of parliament.


The Enterprise Income Tax Law will force most foreign-invested
companies to eventually return 25 percent of their income to the
government in tax, compared with the current preferential tax
rate of 15 percent.


"It has become evident that preferential income tax rates for
foreign-funded companies now amount to unnecessary discrimination
against domestic enterprises," the official China Daily newspaper
said in a recent editorial.


The 25 percent tax rate will also apply to local companies, which
have so far paid 33 percent income tax, although many have
benefited from a broad array of special arrangements and
exemptions.


"To unify the corporate tax rate... will make the country a level
playing field for the enterprises," the China Daily editorial
said.


A unified tax rate has been expected ever since China entered the
World Trade Organisation in late 2001, as the trade body does not
permit this type of discrimination.


Foreign-funded corporations paid 795 billion yuan (102 billion
dollars) in various taxes in 2006, or about 21 percent of total
tax revenue in China, according to official figures.


If the new tax law is implemented in 2008, the foreign-funded
enterprises' income tax bill will increase by 41 billion yuan,
according to estimates from the government.


Collections from domestic firms will drop 134 billion yuan,
resulting in a 93 billion yuan decline in fiscal revenue overall,
the estimates show.

