

Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao warned Friday that lending and
investment were growing too fast, urging more be done to boost
consumer spending.


"Now we have an excessively high investment ratio and we have
excessively large extension of credit and excessive liquidity in
the market," Wen told a press briefing at the end of parliament's
annual full session.


He said China's current economic growth relied too heavily on
investment. "This is not sustainable," he said.


Shortly before Wen spoke, China announced investment in urban
infrastructure rose 23.4 percent in the first two months of the
year from the same period in 2006, when the rise was 26.6
percent.


For all of 2006, fixed asset investment, a major driver for the
economy, increased 24 percent.


Banks lent a total of 980 billion yuan in the first two months of
this year, a rise of 36.8 percent, data published earlier this
week showed.


Wen said, however, that the Chinese economy, which expanded by
10.7 percent last year, was able to maintain its current growth
momentum.


"The conditions are there. The most important factor is that we
have a peaceful international environment to concentrate on
economic development," he said.


"We also have huge potential in terms of domestic market demand
... in the future we will continue to boost domestic demand,
particularly domestic consumption demand."


Chinese retail sales rose 14.7 percent in the first two months of
2007 compared with a year earlier, the government said earlier
this week.


While retail sales are growing very fast compared with most
countries' standards, Chinese economists frequently complain that
they could be even higher still in order to reduce the role
exports play in driving the economy.


Consumers are often reluctant to spend freely because of the
crumbling of the Chinese welfare state, forcing many people to
save extra amounts of money for rainy days and basics such as
education and health care.

