

World champion team Renault experienced fuel pressure problems in
a troublesome opening day's practice here Friday ahead of
Sunday's season-opening Australian Formula One Grand Prix.


Renault, who claimed their second consecutive constructors' title
last season just ahead of Ferrari, had problems with the cars of
Giancarlo Fisichella and rookie Heikki Kovalainen in a concern
for the weekend race.


Fisichella, who won the 2005 Australian GP for Renault, was
fourth fastest in opening practice while Kovalainen languished in
18th spot among the 22 cars.


Renault, who failed to gain points in only one GP last year,
encountered fuel pressure trouble and both cars stopped at
different points in the second afternoon session.


"It was a mixed day for us," Fisichella said. "The performance of
the car looked quite encouraging, especially on the longer runs,
but our problems meant we didn't complete the programme.


"We still need to fine-tune the set-up, but the handling is okay
and now we need to try and match our long-run performance, on the
first lap with new tyres."


Kovalainen, coming into the Renault team to fill the vacancy left
by world champion Fernando Alonso's switch to McLaren, only got
in 10 laps in the afternoon.


"When I was out on the track the car balance felt good and I feel
I have learned the track without too many problems. It's a good,
challenging layout."


Renault's head engineer Pat Symonds said the team mechanics were
looking into the fuel pressure glitches, but was encouraged by
what he saw in opening practice.


"Apart from the problems, the drivers were both happy with the
balance and grip of the car and Giancarlo's long run on the hard
tyre this afternoon looked competitive," Symonds said.

