

Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's government said Friday it did not
believe there was proof Japan forced women into World War II
brothels, reiterating remarks that caused an uproar earlier this
month.


"The government did not find evidence showing forced recruitment
by Japanese military authorities or bureaucrats," Abe's cabinet
said in a policy statement in parliament responding to a question
by an opposition lawmaker.


It said, however, that Abe's cabinet would not change a landmark
1993 apology that the Japanese government issued to former sex
slaves.


The 1993 apology "was not endorsed by the then cabinet of Prime
Minister Kiichi Miyazawa but successive Japanese cabinets have
inherited it," the statement said.


Abe, known for his conservative views on history, caused outrage
earlier this month when he said there was no evidence that so-
called "comfort women" were forced into sexual slavery "in the
strict sense of coercion."


He later elaborated, saying he was talking about physical
coercion, such as kidnappings of women by Japanese soldiers to
put them into brothels.


After an uproar, Abe has said repeatedly that he stands
"sincerely" by the 1993 apology.


Historians say up to 200,000 young women, mostly from Korea but
also from China, Indonesia, the Philippines and Taiwan, were
forced to serve as sex slaves in Japanese army brothels.


The 1993 statement, issued by the top government spokesman at the
time, apologised to comfort women and said the imperial army was
involved "directly or indirectly" in their recruitment and in the
management of the brothels.


Despite Abe's insistence he stands by the statement, he has said
the government will provide information to a group of
conservative lawmakers who want to water down the text.

