

Oil prices were weaker in Asian trade Friday as the Organisation
of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) maintained output
quotas, dealers said.


At 10:40 am (0240 GMT), New York's main oil futures contract,
light sweet crude for delivery in April, was down 21 cents to
57.34 US dollars a barrel from 57.55 dollars in late US trades
Thursday.


Brent North Sea crude for May fell 28 cents to 60.40 dollars.


"The market is edging down ... driven by the OPEC's decision to
keep output steady and also the sell-off in US gasoline futures,"
said Victor Shum, energy analyst at Purvin and Gertz in
Singapore.


"Even though OPEC decided that they would keep output steady,
that outcome really had been expected by the market," he said.


The powerful oil cartel, which supplies more than one-third of
global crude, decided to leave its total daily output unchanged
at 25.8 million barrels at a ministerial meeting in Vienna
Thursday.


"The market is stable, the market is healthy, we do not need to
touch (output) at this time," OPEC secretary-general Abdullah al-
Badri told a press conference after the ministerial meeting.


The 12-nation cartel -- which had cut production at its two
previous meetings in October and December -- decided against an
explicit output announcement in its official written statement.


Instead, the cartel addressed market volatility.


"Although all indicators clearly show that the market remains
well-supplied with crude oil ... overall oil market volatility is
likely to continue," OPEC said.


In its monthly report published Thursday, OPEC said that world
oil demand would grow by 1.5 percent in 2007, matching its
forecasts in January and February.

