

Aid charity Medecins sans Frontieres (MSF) has condemned a US
drugmaker's decision not to sell new medicines in Thailand, which
is at loggerheads with Western pharmaceutical giants over generic
drugs.


Chicago-based Abbott Laboratories said this week it would not
market new drugs in Thailand in protest at the army-backed
government's decision to override the patent on Abbott's anti-
AIDS drug Kaletra.


The medications withdrawn from the Thai market include a new
version of Kaletra, as well as an antibiotic and a painkiller, a
senior company official said.


MSF (Doctors without Borders) slammed the US giant's decision and
argued Thai patients would "bear the brunt of Abbott's harsh
decision."


"Our patients in Thailand, who still use the old version of the
medicine, have been waiting for this new version for a very long
time," David Wilson of MSF in Thailand said in a statement.


"The drug was registered in the US in October 2005, but still
cannot be used in Thailand and many other countries where it is
desperately needed. Refusing to sell the drug here is a major
betrayal to patients," he said.


Abbott, for its part, accused Thailand of breaking patents "on
numerous medicines."


The Thai government said less than 10 percent of some 500,000
HIV-positive patients here have access to Abbott's Kaletra.


Under Thailand's generic drug programme, treatment with Kaletra,
which currently costs 11,580 baht (330 dollars) per month, could
drop to 4,000 baht per month, according to MSF.


Thailand approved copycat versions of Kaletra, a second anti-
retroviral drug Efavirenz, and the blockbuster heart disease drug
Plavix.


A World Trade Organisation deal in 2001 allows nations affected
by diseases such as HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis a
temporary exemption from international laws protecting
intellectual property rights.

