

A new company charged with investing part of China's huge forex
reserves will not have a negative impact on its US-dollar
denominated assets, Premier Wen Jiabao said Friday.


"I can assure you that instituting such a foreign exchange
reserve investment company will not have any adverse impact on
the US-dollar denominated assets," Wen told reporters after
parliament's annual meeting.


China's state-run Xinhua news agency, reporting on Wen's remarks,
indicated that he was referring to China's US-dollar-denominated
holdings, rather than assets denominated in the US currency in
general.


The company, which could start operations this year, is expected
to be charged with investing about 200 billion dollars of China's
more than one trillion dollars of foreign exchange reserves.


"It is true that in China's foreign exchange reserves, US-dollar-
denominated assets account for the majority. I think China buys
US-dollar-denominated assets on the basis of mutual benefit," Wen
said.


China's foreign exchange reserves are the largest in the world
and the markets have speculated about how it might spend them in
the future given concerns any radical changes could have a
massive impact on the price of key assets.


The may worry has been that if China were to diversify its forex
holdings in a significant manner, it could undercut the value of
the dollar, potentially causing disruption to world markets.


The bulk of the 1.07 trillion dollars reserves, currently managed
by the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, has been
traditionally invested in low- yielding US Treasury Bonds and
other American debt.


Analysts believe the new investment company will take advantage
of higher-return financial products, mainly in overseas markets,
to diversify the holdings and risks.


A team led by Lou Jiwei, recently retired from his post as vice
finance minister, is now setting up the new company, according to
state media.

