

Japan has ordered the importer of Tamiflu to warn that teenagers
should not be prescribed the drug after further reports of
abnormal behaviour by patients.


The health ministry instructed Chugai Pharmaceutical Co. to state
in the drug's explanatory note that its use for teenagers should
be avoided, officials said.


"We instructed to Chugai Pharmaceutical to call medical experts'
attention to abnormal behaviour after taking Tamiflu," a health
ministry official told reporters.


The ministry said it had received reports that, after taking
Tamiflu, two teenagers jumped off the second floor of their
houses and broke their legs.


However, the ministry had not proved a link between Tamiflu and
abnormal behaviour, the public broadcaster NHK reported.


Japan buys more than 60 percent of the world's Tamiflu, seen as
the frontline drug against a global bird flu pandemic.


But Tamiflu has come under investigation in Japan after dozens of
people killed themselves having taken the drug for conventional
flu.


In a case last month, a 14-year-old boy died after leaping from
the 11th floor of a building.


Ryuko Hatano, whose son died in a suspected Tamiflu-related
incident, criticised the government's position.


"The government has kept saying there is no link between Tamiflu
and the deaths... I cannot understand the ministry's attitude in
which they cannot move a step nor a half step until they see the
next victim," she said.


An investigation last year by the US Food and Drug Administration
into the deaths in Japan concluded there was no link between
Tamiflu and the deaths. Swiss drug manufacturer Roche also
strongly denied any connection.


The virulent H5N1 virus has killed around 160 people across the
world since late 2003 through contact with infected birds. Japan
last week declared an end to its outbreaks of the virus.

