

At least 14 people including six soldiers were killed Wednesday
as deadly fighting raged in southern Mogadishu, sparked by an
attack on an Ethiopian military base, witnesses and an AFP
correspondent said.


Three uniformed soldiers were killed, an AFP correspondent said,
adding that two of their bodies were burned and one was dragged
through the streets.


Three civilians were killed in a mortar attack.


"Three people were killed after shells landed in their house. I
saw the bodies and one of them is my relative," resident
Abdulkadir Hassan told AFP.


The latest deaths took an earlier toll of eight to 14.


Hundreds of angry civilians celebrated in the Baruwa
neighbourhood as the bodies of two of the dead soldiers went up
in flames.


The crowd shouted: "You and Ethiopians will die", " Down, Down
with Somali troops", and "We will burn you alive".


Nearby, a woman carrying a machete shouted obscenities against
Ethiopian and Somali troops while stepping on the body of another
dead soldier being dragged by a rope tied to his foot, an AFP
correspondent said.


Residents said dozens of civilians were wounded in the fighting,
which erupted when suspected Islamist insurgents pounded the
defence ministry headquarters, where the Ethiopian army is based.


Ethiopian-Somali troops responded by shelling positions in
southern Mogadishu in a bid to take over areas believed to be
occupied by insurgents, witnesses said.


Dozens of people have died since January when joint Somali-
Ethiopian forces ousted an Islamist movement from south and
central Somalia, including the capital, but insurgents and allied
factions have responded with deadly guerrilla warfare.


African Union troops are now deploying in Mogadishu to take over
from Ethiopian forces and try to help Somali government troops
control the country.

