

An author claims an ancient map proves the Portuguese became the
first Europeans to discover Australia, almost 250 years before
Britain's Captain Cook landed in Botany Bay in 1770.


Canberra-based writer Peter Trickett claims in his book "Beyond
Capricorn" that a Portuguese seafarer called Christopher de
Mendonca led a fleet of four ships into Sydney's Botany Bay in
1522, and left a map to prove it.


Trickett said the map is contained in the Vallard Atlas, a
compilation of 15 hand-drawn maps completed no later than 1545 in
France that is now held at the Huntington Library in Los Angeles.


After stumbling across a reproduction of the Vallard Atlas in a
second-hand shop, Trickett became intrigued by the way one of the
maps closely resembled Australia's east coast.


The similarity has been dismissed by scholars because, after
following a similar path to the Australian coastline, the shore
depicted on the map then takes a sharp turn that bears no
resemblence to reality.


But Trickett speculated that the French cartographers copying the
original Portuguese maps had made a mistake and combined two of
de Mendonca's charts into a single map, and he commissoned a
computer expert to separate and rotate them.


"Up to that point it was just a theory," Trickett told the Sydney
Morning Herald newspaper.


"But once it was rotated... the entire east coast of Australia,
and part of the south coast as far as Kangaroo Island, was
revealed in incredible detail."


He believes Portugal kept de Mendonca's discovery a secret
because it did not want rivals to find out, in an age of
aggressive exploration by European powers.


Historians have long accepted that Dutch seafarers reached
Australia about 100 years before Captain James Cook claimed the
island continent for Britain.


But Trickett says his theory about de Mendonca's voyage would
push European arrival in Australia even further.


"His voyage ranks with that of Columbus or Magellan," he said.

