

A female Australian surfer attacked by a shark vowed to return to
the waves Wednesday, less than 24 hours after her ordeal.


Former professional surfer Jodi Cooper was attacked by a five-
foot (1.5-metre) shark while surfing Tuesday morning at South
Golden Beach, in the north of New South Wales state.


Cooper, 42, who was ranked as high as number two on the world
women's circuit in the 1980s, said the shark latched onto her
left hand as she was paddling out to catch a wave.


"I just went 'okay, I'm being attacked by a shark'," she told
Australian Associated Press. "It just came up from underneath me
and just bit me, just like in the movies -- it's pretty classic,
except lucky it was a small shark, a little five-foot thing,"
Cooper said.


"I didn't even see the thing the whole time, it just gave me a
good old chomp on the hand and took a couple of knuckles."


Cooper said she shook off the shark, and after shouting a warning
to other surfers caught a wave to shore as quickly as she could.


She said she did not want to appear heroic, and feared the
predator would return for a second attack as she headed to
safety.


"I'm not saying I'm this heroic bloody thing, I was shitting my
pants, you know," she said.


"It's one of those things in all honesty that we can laugh about
now and I'm just laughing about it."


She received first aid at the beach and then went to hospital,
where medics stitched bone-deep gashes on her knuckles.


Cooper said it was her first brush with a shark in decades of
surfing and would not prevent her from participating in the sport
she loved.


"It's just like I've been bitten by a big dog, just down to the
bone on two knuckles, and then about 10 teeth lacerations up my
hand," she said.


"There doesn't appear to be any ligament damage ... and I can
sort of wiggle my hand -- I'll give it a couple of days and then
I'll go surfing for sure."

