

South Korea's air force chief has offered his resignation after
playing golf while the country was mourning the death of a Korean
soldier in Afghanistan, officials said Wednesday.


Air Force Chief of Staff Kim Sung-Il said he expressed his
intention to resign over the golf controversy and other matters,
at a meeting with Defence Minister Kim Jang-Soo on Sunday.


"I have decided to step down to take responsibility for a series
of incidents," he said in a statement read by his spokesman.


Defence ministry officials said the minister has yet to accept
the resignation.


Kim Sung-Il apologised for the crash of a KF-16 fighter jet last
month during a training flight. Investigators have found the
crash was caused by poor maintenance.


"I also sincerely apologise for causing public concern in
connection with my golf round," he said.


The game on March 1, a national holiday, came despite a verbal
order from the defence minister, who instructed senior military
officials not to play golf until after the March 5 funeral for
Sergeant Yoon Jang-Ho.


Yoon died on February 27 in a bomb attack at the US Bagram air
base in Afghanistan. He was the first South Korean soldier to be
killed overseas since the Vietnam War.


Air force officials said Kim Sung-Il could not cancel the game.


"It was scheduled well before the bomb attack in Afghanistan," an
official told AFP on condition of anonymity. "Furthermore, he had
not received the defence minister's order."


Golf has gained popularity in the country but is still regarded
with suspicion in some quarters as a game for the idle rich and
for people seeking to peddle influence.


Prime Minister Lee Hae-Chan and Vice Education Minister Lee Gi-
Woo stepped down after a golf outing with businessmen on March 1
last year sparked a criminal investigation into alleged
influence-peddling.


Harsh public criticism prompted the government's anti-graft body
to ban government officials from playing golf with suspect
partners.

