

South Korea's Hynix Semiconductor, the world's second largest
memory chipmaker, said Wednesday it has forged a patent cross-
licensing and product supply deal with SanDisk of the United
States.


Hynix said the agreement would help it settle patent suits in the
United States. It follows a similar alliance announced Tuesday
between the Korean firm and Japanese rival Toshiba which also
settled a patent dispute .


The Korean company said it also agreed to set up a 50:50 joint
venture with SanDisk to produce memory components and sell NAND
memory system solutions.


SanDisk is the world's largest supplier of flash data storage
card products.


SanDisk CEO Eli Harari said in a statement: "This cross-license
agreement resolves all intellectual property issues between Hynix
and SanDisk, and allows each company to focus on maximising its
opportunities."


Toshiba and Hynix said Tuesday they had signed a patent cross-
licensing and product supply deal covering semiconductor
technology.


They said the agreement would settle "all pending patent-related
litigation" between the two in the United States and Japan.


Apart from patent disputes, Hynix has been under pressure from
trade barriers erected by Japan, the United States and the
European Union on its chip exports.


Foreign rivals claimed that an earlier bailout for Hynix was
arranged with the help of government-controlled banks and so
constituted the payment of subsidies.


South Korean creditors deny the government played any role in
arranging the rescue package.

