

Total Access Communication, Thailand's second largest mobile
phone operator, said Wednesday it would float shares on the local
stock exchange in a bid to raise at least 172 million dollars.


DTAC, which is controlled by Norwegian telecom giant Telenor,
plans to raise at least six billion baht (172 million dollars),
one third of which would be used for network expansion and the
rest mainly to repay debt.


The listing is expected to take place by June and would be the
biggest offering in the local bourse since 2003, it said.


It will also make DTAC the first Thai firm to list on both the
Singapore and the Thai exchanges.


"Given our improving market share and strong growth potential,
it's the right time to share ownership of our company with local
investors," DTAC chief executive Sigve Brekke said in a
statement.


"This shows our confidence not only in the bright prospects for
DTAC but also for Thailand as a whole."


DTAC listed on the Singapore Stock Exchange in 1995 and its
status there will be maintained after its Thai offering, said
Brekke.


Meanwhile, DTAC's parent company -- United Communication Industry
(UCOM)-- would be delisted from the Thai market by the third
quarter. Once completed, UCOM would be a subsidiary of DTAC.


The plans are subject to approval by shareholders, Thai
regulators and both exchanges.


By floating its shares this year, DTAC would enjoy tax privileges
given by the SET to new listed companies. The company will pay
corporate income tax at the discounted rate of 25 percent for
three three years, compared to the normal rate of 30 percent.


DTAC aims to boost its new subscribers to 15 million this year,
compared to last year's 12 million. It controls about one third
of Thailand's cellular market, ranking only after Shin Corp's
Advanced Info Service (AIS).

