

Major Russian newspapers on Wednesday lamented the loss of at
least 176 lives in three disasters in as many days, blaming
government failure to halt a breakdown of national infrastructure
and hard-core cynicism in Russian society.


"The fact that three catastrophes of such scale happened one
after another is no coincidence," the daily Vremya Novostei said,
commenting on a plane crash Saturday that killed six, a coal mine
explosion that killed at least 107 and a nursing home fire in
which 63 elderly people died.


"The only thing that can explain such regular occurrences of
'unintentional' massive loss of human lives is the breakdown of
state administration and regulation of certain spheres," the
daily said, naming the aviation, mining and construction sectors
among others.


The paper said the recent disasters had led to the highest sudden
loss of life in Russia since the 2004 Beslan school hostage
massacre, but by contrast with that incident claimed by Chechen
rebels the catastrophes this week "happened as if by themselves".


For the daily Novye Izvestia, both the explosion in a Siberian
coal mine and the nursing home fire in southern Russia "could
well have been avoided if elementary safety precautions had been
observed, a theme echoed by the centrist daily Izvestia.


Referring to the nursing home fire, Izvestia said patients and
staff died "because some could not save them and others could not
care less."


The paper also slammed the use of sub-standard equipment in coal
mines in the Kuzbass region where Monday's explosion occurred,
and stated: "This is the question for mine owners and the state:
Is no one interested in safe coal mining?"


The daily Kommersant expressed grief at the deaths of the elderly
patients at the nursing home, saying they "did not live long
enough to die".


The paper listed a number of safety code violations at the
facility -- notably the absence of fire detection and fire
extinguishing equipment -- and said that if these shortcomings
had been addressed the tragedy could have been averted.

