

Hong Kong share prices closed 0.82 percent higher Wednesday as
blue chips China Mobile, Cheung Kong and Hutchison Whampoa were
supported in late trade on expectations that they will report
strong 2006 results, dealers said.


China Mobile will announce its results later Wednesday, while
Cheung Kong and Hutchison Whampoa will report Thursday.


The market was quite active even though most investors remained
cautious after recent volatility and ahead of the end of the US
Federal Reserve meeting on interest rates later Wednesday.


The Fed is not expected to change rates and the focus will be on
what it says about the US economic outlook after problems in the
key housing market sparked concerns of a possible wider fallout
which would hit consumer demand.


The Hang Seng Index rose 159.51 points at 19,516.41, off a low of
19,270.72 and a high of 19,537.09. Turnover was 46.82 billion
dollars (6.0 billion US).


"Major blue chips like China Mobile, Cheung Kong and Hutchison
Whampoa saw strong pre-results buying interest ... which helped
the market to reverse (morning) losses," said Jackson Wong,
investment manager at Tanrich Securities.


He said there was also some short-covering activity in property
and financial stocks.


"It seems that investors would like to boost the benchmark index
back to the 19,800-points level or above," Wong said, adding that
stable overseas markets helped support sentiment.


China Mobile closed up 0.85 dollars at 73.65 dollars. The company
announced after market close a net profit of 66 billion yuan (8.5
billion US) for 2006, up 23.3 percent from a year earlier and in
line with market forecasts.


Among other blue chips reporting results Wednesday, Henderson
Land was up 0.80 at 43.35 and Wharf Holdings added 0.30 at 27.55.


Cheung Kong gained 2.10 at 94.55 and Hutchison Whampoa was up
2.25 at 75.45 ahead of their results announcements Thursday.


Bank of China added 0.02 at 3.88 and BOC Hong Kong was up 0.24 at
19.10, also ahead of results Thursday.


HSBC was up 2.00 at 134.20 following news that China has approved
its plan to incorporate a unit in Shanghai. Hang Seng Bank was up
0.1 at 109.20 and Bank of East Asia up 0.50 at 44.

