

Troubled pop star Britney Spears has completed her stint at a
rehabilitation center and is "doing fine," People magazine
reported on Wednesday.


Spears "has been released by the Promises Malibu Treatment Center
after successfully completing their program," her manager, Larry
Rudolph, was quoted as saying by the magazine's website.


A friend also said Spears was "doing fine," the magazine said.


Spears attended Alcoholics Anonymous meetings during her nearly
one-month stay, though a typical program lasts 45 days, the
celebrity magazine wrote.


There was no immediate comment from the center, which promises
strict privacy for prospective patients at its gated estate on
the Pacific coast.


Spears checked herself in on February 20, after she shaved her
head at a hair salon within view of paparazzi, and then briefly
checked out again the next day.


But she returned to the center in Malibu reportedly after her
estranged husband, Kevin Federline, threatened a custody battle
over their two children, the magazine said.


Federline has visited the pop princess several times at the
facility with their sons, most recently last weekend, and is
"supportive" of her recovery, according to People.


During her time at the rehab center, Federline reportedly took
care of the two boys with help from his mother and Spears'
mother.


The singer stunned staff at a suburban Los Angeles beauty salon
last month by walking in and demanding they cut off her mane of
brunette hair extensions.


When staff refused, Spears grabbed a set of clippers and shaved
her head to the delight of a crowd of paparazzi who had gathered
outside to watch.


Spears has never been far from the media spotlight ever since she
announced plans to divorce Federline last November.


Entertainment media have followed her every misstep since then,
including her appearance in public in a short dress without
panties, clearly evident in unflattering photographs which
quickly flew over the Internet.

