

The dollar was higher against the yen in Asian trade Wednesday
ahead of the conclusion of a two-day US Federal Reserve meeting,
dealers said.


The dollar was at 117.25 yen in Singapore morning trade, slightly
firmer on 117.22 in late US trades Tuesday.


The euro rose to 1.3316 dollars versus 1.3307.


Financial markets in Japan were closed for a public holiday,
leaving trade here without a dominant lead.


The Federal Reserve is expected to keep its short-term interest
rate at 5.25 percent when the two-day meeting in Washington ends
Wednesday but the market will be reading closely the US central
bank's statement for clues on the future direction of monetary
policy, dealers said.


"For us, we expect no change in the interest rate decision," said
Suan Teck Kin, an economist with United Overseas Bank in
Singapore.


Analysts at DBS Bank also expected no change in US short-term
interest rates and said the Fed statement would be the focus for
investors.


"No change in rates is expected and once again, the focus turns
to words," analysts from the Singapore bank said in a report
Wednesday.


"More interesting will be what the Fed says about growth. Rising
foreclosures in the sub-prime (mortgage) market mean that housing
construction is likely to stay weak for longer -- and prices fall
lower -- than most have been anticipating hitherto," they said.


The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC), headed by Ben Bernanke,
began its meeting Tuesday and was widely expected to keep the
federal funds rate at 5.25 percent.


The rate has been unchanged since the FOMC halted a string of
increases last August but the panel has warned after each meeting
to date that it could resume rate hikes if inflation kicks up.

