

The United States wants to set up a controversial missile shield
in the Czech Republic and Poland to protect not only itself but
also the European continent, a top State Department official said
here Wednesday.


"We want this system to also protect Europe. Security is an
indivisible issue for us," US Assistant Secretary of State for
European Affairs, Daniel Fried, told the Gazeta Wyborcza daily.


"A situation in which NATO countries have different levels of
security is unacceptable to us," he added.


Fried held talks Tuesday with Polish Defence Minister Aleksander
Szczyglo "on the missions in Afghanistan and Iraq and aspects of
the deployment of parts of the anti-missile shield in Europe",
the Polish defence ministry said.


The US official, a former US ambassador to Poland, was due
Wednesday to meet with Prime Minister Jaroslaw Kaczynski and
Foreign Minister Anna Fotyga.


The United States wants to base 10 unarmed interceptor missiles
in Poland and install a powerful radar in the Czech Republic as
part of a defence shield that Washington says is meant to guard
against threats from "rogue" states such as Iran.


Parts of the shield are already in place in the United States,
Britain and Greenland, and the plan is to have the system fully
operational by 2011-2012.


Fried's statement echoed what was said on Sunday by German
Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier that "Europe's safety
cannot be divided up."


Germany has expressed concern about Washington's plans to base
more elements of the missile defence shield in Europe, saying it
could be divisive and spark a new arms race on the continent.

