

The Indonesian government and US oil giant Exxon Mobil have
decided not to seek arbitration during talks over disputed
drilling rights for a major gas field off Borneo, state media
said Wednesday.


Indonesia last year terminated a contract with the firm to
develop the field in the Natuna Sea, claiming slow progress.
Exxon Mobil disputed the move, saying the contract was valid but
later agreed to talks.


"Both parties will not take the case to an arbitration body
during the negotiation period," senior Indonesian official
Kardaya Warnika was quoted as saying by the official Antara news
agency.


The government was still considering proposals advanced by Exxon
Mobil during the talks and had asked for some new terms,
including on profit sharing, he said.


"We have not received them yet. We have asked that they be
submitted as soon as possible," he said.


Reports said Exxon Mobil had proposed the development of the
field be halted during the negotiations.


Exxon Mobil has said it has spent more than 350 million dollars
on the block so since developmentwork began in 1980.


In March 2006, Exxon Mobil and the government ended a similar
long-running dispute over the development of the Cepu oil field
on the main island of Java by concluding a joint operating
agreement.


The four-year Cepu dispute was watched carefully by foreign
investors who have long complained about a host of obstacles to
doing business in Indonesia.


Such concerns are said to be among the reasons why Indonesia,
Southeast Asia's only member of the Organisation of Petroleum
Exporting Countries, has become a net oil importer in recent
years.

