

Military-run Myanmar has slaughtered about 38,000 birds in
efforts to curb the rapid spread of a deadly strain of bird flu,
but fears further outbreaks, state- run media reported Wednesday.


Yangon has confirmed five outbreaks of the deadly H5N1 strain of
avian influenza across the city in the past three weeks -- the
first cases in Myanmar since the country declared itself bird
flu-free in September last year.


"Despite preparedness and designating restricted zones and
controlled zones, there could be more bird flu outbreaks in the
other regions," the official New Light of Myanmar newspaper
reported.


"So, those engaged in fowl breeding and sales are urged to raise
(their) awareness," the junta-run newspaper said.


The latest outbreak was uncovered Saturday on a large chicken
farm in Hmawbi township, northern Yangon, where 1,645 chickens
died from H5N1. About 20,700 chickens were also slaughtered
there, the paper said.


Since the first outbreak was found on February 28, authorities
have killed a total of 37,883 chickens, ducks and quail,
officials said.


The paper said the new outbreak in Hmawbi may have been caused by
the movement of people, birds and animal feed, and banned the
sale and transport of fowls and fowl products within a six-
kilometre (four-mile) radius of the farm.


At least 168 people worldwide have died of bird flu since 2003,
mostly in Asia, World Health Organisation figures show. No human
cases have so far been found in Myanmar.


The UN's agricultural agency has praised Myanmar's normally
secretive government for being "quick and effective" in its
response to new outbreaks, and is providing 1.4 million dollars
in assistance to help fight the disease.

