

Authorities in emergency-ruled Bangladesh said Wednesday they
were releasing thousands of prison inmates to ease pressure on
the country's critically overcrowded jails following a crime
crackdown.


The impoverished South Asian nation's 66 prisons were designed to
house around 27,000 criminals.


But this month the jail population hit three times that number,
following the interim government's clampdown on crime -- and in
particular corruption -- in which thousands have been arrested
across the country.


"The situation became almost impossible to manage," said national
prisons chief, Brigadier General Zakir Hassan, warning that some
jails were "pathetic" and posed a risk of serious problems.


"In a 36-square-feet (3.24 square meters) cell, now as many as
four people are sleeping in double shifts. Half of them have to
stay awake throughout the night and sleep in the day," he said.


He said Bangladesh's military-backed interim government had asked
prison authorities to compile a list of prisoners who can be
immediately released.


"We have compiled a list of 4,165 people who can be freed any
time. The government said it would free as many of them as
possible within the next few days," he added.


Bangladesh has been under a state of emergency since January this
year when the country's president cancelled elections amid
worsening political violence.


The country's leading human rights group, Odhikar, has said more
than 95,000 people had been arrested since the emergency was
imposed on January 11. Most were released on bail, but officials
said the arrests have contributed to record prison population
numbers.

