

The difference in life expectancy between black and white
Americans has narrowed since 1993 though substantial inequalities
remain, according to a new study.


A decline in the death rate for homicide, HIV, heart disease and
accidental injuries had improved the life expectancy of African-
Americans in recent years, said the study appearing in the latest
issue of the Journal of the American Medical Association.


Still, the current difference in life expectancy at birth between
blacks and whites remains significant, said the study based on an
analysis of figures from the US National Vital Statistics System
from 1983 to 2003.


White men live 6.3 years longer on average than their black
counterparts and white women live 4.5 more years longer than
African-American women.


"Homicide, HIV, and and perinatal death, although demonstrating
favorable trends, continue to keep the black-white gap
unnecessarily large, and unfavorable mortality trends in
nephritis (kidney disease) and septicemia (bloodstream infection)
are currently contributing to widening the gap," wrote the team
of researchers led by Sam Harper of McGill University in
Montreal.


Closing the gap further will require concerted efforts in public
health, the authors wrote.


"Reducing social and individual risk factors for major causes of
death and improving access and quality of care for blacks,
particularly for cardiovascular diseases, should be a pressing
priority for public health and heath care," the authors wrote.

