

Worshippers in India's remote Andaman islands are rushing for a
glimpse of a picture of Jesus Christ amid reports that it was
oozing blood, witnesses said Wednesday.


Thousands of people, mostly Christians, mobbed the home of a
bishop in Port Blair, capital of the Indian Ocean chain, to pray
before the framed print, police said.


"The bleeding has stopped, but still people are visiting the
bishop's house to ask about the miracle," said Eric Nathaniel, a
local policeman who was the original owner of the picture.


Nathaniel said he had brought the portrait to the home of Paul
Christopher, bishop of the Church of Northern India in the
Andamans, where thousands of people were killed in the 2004 Asian
tsunami.


"On March 8, at 8:30 in the evening, my family and I returned
home from shopping and as we entered the house we could not
believe our eyes," said Nathaniel, who belongs to the Andamans'
Nicobarese tribespeople.


"There was blood flowing from the portrait of Jesus Christ on a
table in our dining room," the officer told AFP, adding that the
"bleeding" stopped Monday.


"We lit candles and prayed and after some time the blood dried
but it was again there two days later. Blood also oozed from the
hands and heart of another portrait of Jesus hung on the wall in
the sitting room," he said.


Nathaniel said he brought the picture to the bishop's official
home because he wanted people to see the "miracle."


Bishop Christopher was not present in Port Blair for comment, but
other Catholic priests insisted a "miracle" was in the works.


"Its a sign that Jesus is crying because of our sinful ways,"
said John Chrysostom, an Anglican priest posted in the island
group.


"Its a miracle and all should seek his blessings," Chrysostom
said.

