

Vietnam will move its fledgling stock market online and close its
two official trading floors in late 2008, the chief regulator
said Wednesday in his first Internet chat session with the
public.


"We have concrete upgrade programmes for Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh
City," said State Securities Commission Chairman Vu Bang in
response to one of about 1,100 questions received in the two-
and-a-half hour online session.


"We plan to implement this process in late 2008 and then all
trading floors will be abolished," he wrote, adding that
investors could already trade equity via online services provided
by brokers.


Vietnam's seven-year-old bourse in the former Saigon, the Ho Chi
Minh City Securities Trading Centre, has seen rapid growth since
last year as many state- owned enterprises have issued stock.


The benchmark VN Index climbed nearly 145 percent last year and
has risen 49 percent this year, Asia's highest rate, with a total
valuation of over 15 billion dollars -- triggering warnings the
market is overheating.


Bang, in his online chat, said authorities were planning to crack
down on abuses -- including insider trading and money laundering
-- on the official stock exchange and a parallel "grey market" of
unlisted stocks.


"People can manipulate transactions, have inside information or
commit money laundering," he said, adding: "We have studied this
problem very seriously. We are now receiving help from aboard in
this sector to combat it."


Bang said that the HCMC and smaller Hanoi exchanges now had a
total market capitalisation of 22 billion dollars, equal to 38
percent of gross domestic product.


On Wednesday, the VN Index fell 5.62 points or 0.5 percent to
close at 1,111.63 points.

