

HSBC, Standard Chartered Bank, Bank of East Asia and Citigroup
have won approval to incorporate locally in China, making them
eligible to launch full yuan services, state media reported
Wednesday.


As locally incorporated companies, the four lenders can provide
yuan and foreign exchange services for Chinese citizens after
completing the commercial registration process, probably by next
month, the China Daily said.


They would be no longer confined to taking only deposits larger
than one million yuan (128,000 dollars) per client, a limit
applied to foreign banks who choose not to take on local status.


"We welcome every deposit even if it is only 100 yuan," said Bank
of East Asia's general manager Yu Xueqiang, according to the
Shanghai Securities News.


The four banks filed local incorporation applications with the
China Banking Regulatory Commission, the industry watchdog, in
mid-December soon after new rules on foreign bank operations took
effect on December 11.


All of the four banks said they expected to start operations
soon, with their headquarters to be located in Shanghai.


Hang Seng Bank, Mizuho Corporate Bank, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi
UFJ Ltd, DBS Bank, ABN AMRO and Overseas-Chinese Banking Corp are
also preparing to register local subsidiaries in Shanghai, the
China Daily said.


JPMorgan Chase Bank will be incorporated in Beijing and Win Hang
Bank in the southern city of Shenzhen, just across from Hong
Kong.


China's banking authorities are also reviewing local
incorporation applications from Nanyang Commercial Bank, CITIC Ka
Wah Bank and United Overseas Bank, the report said.

