

Grieving Pakistan averted World Cup chaos on Wednesday by
agreeing to play their last match against Zimbabwe despite the
tragic death of coach Bob Woolmer.


The International Cricket Council (ICC) said the group D match
will go ahead as scheduled at the Sabina Park here later on
Wednesday following talks with the Pakistan team management.


The confirmation followed a meeting between the Pakistan team
management and officials from the local police, the ICC and
Cricket World Cup, a statement from the Council said on
Wednesday.


"The Pakistan management indicated they were comfortable with the
arrangements surrounding the team and that the match would take
place," the statement added.


"The match will be preceded by a minute's silence as a mark of
respect for former Pakistan coach Bob Woolmer, who passed away on
Sunday."


Earlier media reports suggested Pakistan may speak to the ICC
about pulling out since many of the players were not in the right
mental frame to play.


Jamaica police have confirmed they were treating Woolmer's death
as suspicious amid suggestions the former England Test batsman
may have been murdered.


The match on Wednesday is inconsequential for Pakistan, who have
already been knocked out of the tournament after losing their
first two games to the West Indies and Ireland.


But it holds immense significance for Zimbabwe and Ireland, whose
progress into the second round from the group along with the West
Indies depends on it.


Ireland have three points and Zimbabwe one, but the Africans
would have drawn level if Pakistan had not played, and could have
squeezed ahead if Ireland suffered a heavy defeat at the hands of
West Indies on Friday.

