

A strike in Nepal over mafia-like Maoist violence entered its
third day on Wednesday after business leaders said talks with the
Himalayan nation's government had failed to ease their fears.


Businesses were again closed across the capital, Kathmandu, as
Internet service providers continued to cut Web access in
response to Sunday's abduction and beating of a hotelier who
failed to give cash and free rooms to the former rebels.


"The talks have not been positive," Chandi Raj Dhakal, the
chairman of the Federation of Nepal Chamber of Commerce and
Industry told AFP after a meeting with Prime Minister Girija
Prasad Koirala.


"We want a written commitment from the government and the eight
parties giving assurances of peace and security," he said.


Nepal's Maoists had publicly pledged to end violence when they
signed a peace deal with Koirala last year, but accusations of
intimidation, extortion and violence persist.


The former insurgents have admitted that two members of a Maoist-
affiliated trade union had been involved and that they had been
suspended.


But business leaders say their patience has run out, with hotels
threatening to shut up shop, turf out tourists and cut Internet
lines for two hours a day in solidarity.


Business associations said they planned another mass rally in
Kathmandu Wednesday.


The coalition government is expected to meet with the Maoists
later Wednesday, and has promised to act against those
responsible for the beating.


"I have already directed police officials to take action against
those who abducted and thrashed the owner of the Woodland Hotel,"
Home Minister Krishna Prasad Sitaula was quoted as saying by the
Himalayan Times newspaper.


The Maoists and the government signed a landmark peace deal in
January that ended a decade of civil war in which more than
13,000 people died.


Under the deal, the Maoists agreed to register their fighters and
weapons with the United Nations and enter the political
mainstream.

