

Chinese share prices put recent turbulence behind them Wednesday
to post a record finish with a gain of 0.83 percent, supported by
follow-through buying and fresh inflows of funds, dealers said.


They said new money and further gains in the yuan provided the
immediate cue for the record breaking performance but there was
also a note of caution as investors worried about the possibility
of another sharp correction.


A recent series of very strong economic data prompted a third
consecutive interest rate hike at the weekend and the authorities
have made clear they want to calm the markets, which are now up
some 150 percent since early 2006.


However, investors largely ignored the rate hike Monday, when
stocks rose 2.87 percent, and it seems it will take more than
that to keep them in check, increasing the risk of perhaps
tougher measures.


Turnover continued very heavy.


The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index, which covers both A- and
B-shares, closed up 25.19 points at 3,057.38, an all-time high,
on turnover of 89.31 billion yuan (11.52 billion US dollars).


The previous record finish on the Shanghai Composite was 3,040.60
points on February 26, one day before a near nine percent
collapse sparked a global equity market sell-off.


The markets were very nervous in the aftermath of the Chinese
inspired crash but investors gradually found fresh courage and
bought in at the lows on the hope further gains would come.


The Shanghai A-share Index was up 26.38 points or 0.83 percent at
3,212.42 on turnover of 88.85 billion yuan and the Shenzhen
A-share Index rose 11.44 points or 1.38 percent at 840.96, also a
record high, on turnover of 49.87 billion yuan.


"Fresh money came in after the Shanghai Composite index breached
its record high this morning while expectations for solid 2006
earnings to be announced by major companies also helped boost
confidence," said Zeng Bo, an analyst at Changjiang Securities.


Dealers, however, cautioned that the market is ripe for a
correction at current levels with some investors expected to want
to cash in recent gains.


"There could be some correction around current levels because
some investors might choose to lock in gains," said Zhang Yidong,
an analyst at Industrial Securities.


Financial and property stocks were boosted by expectations of
further yuan strength, dealers said.


Anxin Trust Investment was up 0.71 yuan or 5.02 percent at 14.85
and Shanghai Pudong Development Bank was up 1.14 yuan or 4.55
perdent at 26.17.


Celebrities Real Estate Development Group was up 0.85 yuan or
4.85 percent at 18.38 with China Vanke adding 0.27 yuan or 1.61
percent at 17.02.


The Shanghai B-share Index was up 2.13 points or 1.21 percent to
177.64 on turnover of 461.65 million US dollars and the Shenzhen
B-share Index rose 3.51 points or 0.70 percent at 508.28 on
turnover of 462.36 million Hong Kong dollars (59.66 million US
dollars).

