

The introduction of prizemoney to the world championships was
welcomed by leading stars Wednesday who said it


adds a professional dimension to the one-time bastion of amateur
sport.


Governing body FINA is allocating a prize pool of two million US
dollars to the 12th World Swimming Championships, distributing
money to medallists and financial incentives for world records.


Australian swimmer Libby Lenton, who held the women's world 100m
freestyle record until last August, said the awarding of
prizemoney is a reward for the months and kilometres of lonely
training put in by swimmers.


Gold medallists in the swimming competition will receive 12,000
US dollars, with silver-medallists getting 7,000 and bronze
medallists earning 5,000. A world record performance will earn
the competitor an extra 25,000 dollars.


"The reason I swim is not for money at all. If we were swimming
for money I don't think we would have got this far over their
entire career," said Lenton.


"The medal is a reward for all the hard work and it's nice to get
a little bit of money with that sometimes and it adds a nice
professional dimension to swimming and getting us up there with
the other sports.


"Because we will have more money in the sport I think there will
be more amazing performances than we had in the past.


Olympic and world champion Grant Hackett, the highest-paid
swimmer in Australia through his sponsorships and corporate work,
also welcomed the prizemoney, which he said should be for all
swimmers, not just the top ones.


"I think it's wonderful that the sport is heading in a
professional direction and certainly the sport deserves the
prizemoney," he said.


"The athletes who produce great performances, great world records
they deserve to be rewarded for it.


"I think the ranks of world swimming deserve to be rewarded, not
just the top echelon."

