

Iranian leaders lashed out at "enemy plots" against the nation as
the UN Security Council prepared on Wednesday to approve a raft
of new sanctions over Tehran's controversial nuclear drive.


President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad launched an attack against
"Zionists who dominate the world" in a message marking the
Iranian new year, while supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei
warned against "enemy conspiracies" he said were aimed at
dividing the Iranian people and weakening the nation.


Ahmadinejad has said he wants to address the Security Council,
which was to begin crucial bargaining on Wednesday on whether to
approve new sanctions proposed by six major powers against
Tehran.


The draft toughens UN sanctions already imposed in December in
response to Tehran's continued refusal to halt sensitive nuclear
fuel work, which the West fears could be diverted to make atomic
weapons.


"Enemies want to create problems by creating divisions among
people and making economic problems to halt Iran's march to
progress," Khamenei said in his New Year message carried on the
official IRNA news agency.


He said unnamed foes wanted to sow "ethnic, social and religious"
divisions. "They are trying to create conflicts between Shiites
and Sunnis everywhere possible in the Islamic world to weaken the
greatness of the Iranian people."


Ahmadinejad said Iran was determined to defend its position in
the nuclear standoff, complaining that the world was dominated by
a "handful of racist Zionists who intend to keep the world in a
state of hardship, hostility and poverty."


"The best solution for them is the recognise Iran's rights so we
can end the impasse," he said.


"By using insitutions they created and dominated, they tried to
prevent the Iranian people from continuing on its path but they
failed."

