

Australia's biggest city, Sydney, has the world's worst rail
system, lagging far behind international counterparts in
efficiency and reliability, according to a leaked report
published Wednesday.


The Daily Telegraph newspaper said the report, prepared by
experts from Hong Kong's widely-praised Mass Transit Railway
(MTR), compared Sydney's CityRail network with similar transport
systems in Asia, Europe and South America.


It found the network servicing Australia's most populous city
came near the bottom of the comparison table on almost all
measures, against the likes of Santiago, Moscow and Bangkok.


"Reliability levels are well below MTR and international
benchmarks," the report said.


It found Sydney's trains were 10 times less reliable Hong Kong's,
seven times more expensive to run than in Europe and had double
the maintenance costs of North American systems.


The Telegraph said CityRail received the report in mid-2006 but
had not yet presented its findings to the New South Wales
government, which faces an election on Saturday and where public
transport has become a major issue.


More than 40,000 rush hour commuters were stranded for up to
three hours in non- airconditioned carriages on March 14 when the
rail system became gridlocked after two trains broke down.


But State Premier Morris Iemma defended the rail system.


"The comparisons in the report are just not valid," he told
reporters.


"To compare the Sydney network, with some 2,000 kilometres of
track, with the Moscow track which has some 200 is not a valid
comparison, nor is the comparison with Hong Kong at 56 stations
and the CityRail network with more than 300."

