

Former Pakistani legends Imran Khan and Ramiz Raja said Wednesday
they were dismayed after police in Jamaica said they were
treating the death of national coach Bob Woolmer as suspicious.


The suggestion is the latest shock for this cricket-obsessed
nation, following Woolmer's death on Sunday at the World Cup and
Pakistan's ignominious exit at the hands of part-timers Ireland
less 24 hours earlier.


"We really need to know what is behind it. I think they have to
get to the bottom," former Pakistan captain and all-rounder Imran
Khan told AFP after the latest news.


"This just adds to the whole tragedy and especially for Bob's
family," added Khan, who remains a hero here for leading Pakistan
to their only World Cup triumph in 1992.


"I still assume he died of natural causes because he was a
diabetic and that is closely associated with heart attacks."


The deputy chief commissioner of the Jamaican police force, Mark
Shields, said Tuesday that the post-mortem into Woolmer's death
was inconclusive.


"But having met with the pathologists and other medical
personnel, there is sufficient information to continue a full
investigation into the circumstances of Mr Woolmer's death, which
is now being treated as suspicious," Shields said.


Pakistan Cricket Board spokesman Pervez Mir said investigators
were looking at the possibility of foul play. "The police suspect
that Woolmer may have been murdered," Mir told AFP.


Another former Pakistan skipper, Ramiz Raja, said he hoped any
suspicions would be laid to rest quickly.


"It is very unfortunate that the death is being treated as
supicious. It adds another twist to the tale, which is more
unfortunate," Raja told AFP by telephone from the West Indies,
where he is working as a commentator.


"Let's hope for the sake of cricket that the matter is solved and
they put to rest any suspicion quickly."

