

Legendary opera diva Dame Kiri Te Kanawa won a lawsuit Wednesday
after she pulled out of concerts with an Australian rocker in
case his fans hurled their knickers onto the stage.


The star had been sued for up to two million dollars (1.6 million
US) for cancelling a tour with John Farnham after seeing a DVD of
him holding up underwear that had been tossed at him by adoring
revellers.


But New South Wales Supreme Court Judge Patricia Bergin ruled
against the promoter, Leading Edge Events, finding it had failed
to establish its claims against Dame Kiri, the Australian
Associated Press reported.


While there were emails in which venues, fees and air tickets for
the proposed concerts were discussed, there was no finalisation
of the contract, the judge said.


The 62-year-old New Zealand-born singer told the court she
decided not to appear with Farnham in concerts in Sydney and
Melbourne after seeing footage of his 2003 farewell tour that had
left her shocked and embarrassed.


She said Farnham had been disrespectful by collecting the
knickers thrown at him by fans and holding them as some sort of
"trophy".


The pair had been scheduled to perform together in 2005 at three
concerts, dubbed "Two Great Voices", tickets for which had
already been sold for a total of nearly 10,000 dollars.


Following her withdrawal, Leading Edge Events sued the singer,
her former agent Nick Grace and his company for breach of
contract.


Leading Edge said it spent more than 380,000 dollars on
preparations for the concerts, only to find that Grace knew the
singer was wavering on the performances but had failed to pass on
the information.


The promoter was awarded 128,063 (101,169 dollars) from the
company that employed Dame Kiri, Mattane, for costs incurred, AAP
reported.

