

The top US envoy to negotiations on North Korea's nuclear
programme said Wednesday it was unclear when they could resume as
Pyongyang waits for the return of 25 million dollars in assets.


Planned morning meetings of chief delegates at six-nation talks
in Beijing did not take place, according to officials, after the
North insisted it would not join in until the money was safely
returned.


"They have not completed the transfer," US negotiator Christopher
Hill told reporters after lunching with South Korea's envoy Chun
Yung-Woo.


"Until they do that North Korea has made clear it is not prepared
to engage in substantive discussions."


Authorities in Macau, where the money has been frozen since 2005
due to US accusations of North Korean money laundering and
counterfeiting, said earlier this week it would be released to a
Pyongyang bank account.


But no one involved in the process has said when it will take
place, and North Korea has said it will not begin implementing a
six-nation disarmament accord signed on February 13 until the
money is safely back in its hands.


Hill said he would meet with the Chinese delegate later Wednesday
and that China would subsequently host a round-table meeting of
delegates from all six nations -- China, the United States, the
two Koreas, Japan and Russia.


"I hope we will find out whether they have made any progress on
the banking issue," he said.


North Korea, which conducted its first atomic weapons test in
October last year, agreed in the February 13 deal to shut down
its key nuclear reactor at Yongbyon by mid-April and allow
International Atomic Energy Agency inspectors back into the
country.


In return, the impoverished regime would initially receive 50,000
tonnes of heavy fuel for energy use.


The United States announced on Monday, at the start of the latest
round of six- nation talks, that it had struck a deal with the
North to end the dispute over the money and that the assets would
be returned.

