

The dire social problem of local governments in China illegally
taking land from ordinary farmers and giving it to industrialists
significantly worsened last year, state press said Wednesday.


The number of cases of illegal land use -- one of the major
forces behind the rising number of protests and riots in China --
jumped 17.3 percent last year, the China Daily said, citing
Ministry of Land and Resources figures.


Local governments pursuing "blind economic growth" were the main
culprits behind the 130,000 cases of illegal land use, according
to a director at the ministry, Zhang Xinbao.


Factory owners, property developers and other industry chiefs
were generally given the land at either ultra-cheap rental rates
or for free, Zhang said.


"The local government-led acquisition ... is still the main form
of violation in land use," the newspaper quoted Zhang as saying.


The ministry last year punished 3,593 people for their
involvement in illegal land use, including two provincial-level
government officials, the China Daily and Xinhua news agency
said, without giving further details.


An overwhelming number of protests in China are triggered by
farmers and city residents who have seen their land or property
illegally seized by local officials, the central government has
said previously.


According to the latest figures from the Ministry of Public
Security, there were 87,000 protests, officially termed "mass
incidents", reported in 2005, up 6.6 percent on 2004 and 50
percent on 2003.


China's parliament this month passed an historic and
controversial law that gave unprecedented legal rights to private
property.


Supporters of the law have said it will help curb illegal land
confiscation as it will give farmers greater rights to the use of
land.


However critics have said it will help reinforce the rights of
the powerful as they exploit farmers and other marginalised
members of society.

