

Australian share prices closed 0.25 percent lower Wednesday in
cautious trade, with investors waiting for the outcome of the US
Federal Reserve meeting on interest rates later in the day,
dealers said.


They said there was little incentive to trade aggressively before
news on the Fed meeting but continued gains in commodity prices
helped the miners provide some support.


The benchmark SP/ASX 200 ended down 14.7 points at 5,861.9 while
the broader All Ordinaries index shed 10.2 points at 5,846.3.


Turnover was 1.74 billion shares worth 5.01 billion dollars (3.9
billion US), with falls leading gains 656 to 532 and 356 stocks
unchanged.


Bell Potter Securities private investment advisor Stuart Smith
said caution ahead of the Federal Reserve meeting slowed the
market while its outcome should dictate trading over the
remainder of the week.


There is little likelihood the Fed will do anything other than
leave rates on hold but the markets want to hear its comments on
the outlook for the US economy, especially in light of recent
weakness in the key housing sector.


Index-leading resource stocks BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto
supported the market somewhat while selling in oil heavyweight
Woodside weighed on the index, Smit said.


He noted the major banks were mixed although three of them are
still carrying dividends for the year ending March.


"I think it's a nice healthy market with a bit of profit taking,"
he said.


"The markets are trying to decide whether we're in an uptrend or
not. Technically I think we are."


BHP Billiton gained 0.09 dollars to 28.77 dollars and Rio Tinto
climbed 0.55 to 76.10.  Alumina was steady at 7.26 while Zinifex
fell 0.06 to 16.30.


Woodside retreated 0.15 to 35.95, Santos was flat at 9.54 and Oil
Search slipped 0.01 to 3.43.


National Australia Bank eased 0.01 to 40.12, ANZ shed 0.02 to
29.00 but Commonwealth Bank rose 0.13 to 49.64, Westpac gained
0.09 to 25.82 and St George added 0.02 to 44.15.


Bank of Queensland was up 0.07 at 16.92 while its takeover target
Bendigo Bank fell 0.05 to 17.10.


Smorgon Steel jumped following Tuesday's agreement by BlueScope
that it would support a merger between OneSteel and Smorgon. A
number of conditions were attached, including BlueScope acquiring
Smorgon's metal distribution business for 700 million dollars.


Smorgon advanced 0.125 or 6.49 percent to end at 2.05, BlueScope
gained 0.06 to 9.84 while OneSteel shed 0.08 to 5.10.


Biotechnology company Avexa soared on announcing it is raising 75
million dollars to fund trials of an anti-HIV drug. Avexa shares
jumped 0.29 or 42.65 percent to finish at 0.97.

