

More than 3,000 lawyers called on President Pervez Musharraf to
quit Wednesday as fresh protests erupted here over his removal of
Pakistan's top judge, witnesses and police said.


Military ruler Musharraf has faced the biggest crisis of his
eight years in power since ordering the suspension of Chief
Justice Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry on March 9.


Carrying black banners and chanting "Go Musharraf, go" the black-
suited lawyers in the eastern city of Lahore removed barricades
the police had erected on a busy road to block the march,
witnesses said.


Police withdrew the cordon as the massive crowd, joined by
leaders and workers from opposition parties, came out of the high
court building.


The lawyers planned to stage a sit-in outside the provincial
assembly building to press their demand for Chaudhry's
reinstatement.


Separately in Islamabad some 300 protesters carrying umbrellas to
shield themselves from driving rain broke through two police
cordons and headed towards parliament, an AFP reporter said.


Musharraf's removal of Chaudhry has sparked a series of violent
protests, with police firing tear gas at demonstrators in
Islamabad on Friday and Lahore on Saturday.


Pakistan's legal establishment has led the opposition to the
president's action. Eight judges and a deputy attorney general
have quit over the row while lawyers have been staging near-daily
strikes and rallies.


Details of the charges against Chaudhry were published in
newspapers here for the first time Wednesday, including that he
obtained a series of top jobs for his son. His lawyers deny the
allegations.


Musharraf, who seized power in a 1999 military coup, said in a
television interview Monday that his actions were constitutional
and that he would not impose a state of emergency over the row.

