

Tens of thousands of South Korean doctors and dentists staged a
one-day strike and mass rally Wednesday to protest government
plans to reform medical services.


About 60,000 protesters gathered near a government complex in
southern Seoul in opposition to a medical reform bill, said Oh
Yoon-Soo, a spokesman for the Korea Medical Association.


Police put the number at 40,000. The Ministry of Health and
Welfare said the strike disrupted services at 57 percent of the
nation's clinics.


Riot police formed lines to stop the protesters from marching to
the government complex but there were no clashes, Oh told AFP.
"We are here to demand the government withdraw the bill," he
said, adding doctors would return to work Thursday.


Health officials said the bill would let hospitals provide both
traditional Oriental and Western medical services, along with
dentistry. Most hospitals currently offer only one of the
services.


The bill would also allow doctors to work in multiple clinics or
hospitals, rather than being confined to one institution.


It requires them to disclose in advance those treatment costs not
covered by insurance and to give patients full explanations of
their symptoms and how they will be treated.


South Korean doctors are notorious for refusing to communicate
with patients about their ailments.


Doctors insist the bill would lower the quality of specialists
and affect public health. The medical association, which has
95,000 members, said it feared the bill would "damage our
specialities and rights."


"The government must not push for a revision to the medical law
without full consultations with us," it said in a statement.


The association vowed to step up its protest, but no timetable
was given.


The health ministry threatened to take legal action against
doctors if they continued to refuse to accept patients. It plans
to present the bill to parliament in the first half of the year.

