

An American who gunned down a Texas convenience store clerk
during a 1997 robbery was executed Tuesday by lethal injection.


Charles Nealy, 42, was pronounced dead at 7:20 pm local time,
seven minutes after the deadly injection began in the Huntsville,
Texas, prison, the state's Criminal Justice Department said in a
statement.


Just before being put to death, Nealy said in his last statement
that his execution had been delayed because the executioner could
not find a vein.


Nealy, who declined to have a last meal, also told family members
he loved them, asked to be buried next to his mother rather than
in the prison cemetery and accused the main prosecution witness
of lying during his trial.


On August 29, 1997, Nealy and his nephew Claude robbed a
convenience store in Dallas, killing two employees and fleeing
with 4,000 dollars.


Charles Nealy was convicted of murdering store clerk Jiten
Bhakta, 25, while Claude Nealy, a minor at the time of the
robbery, was sentenced to life in prison for killing the other
employee.


Nealy is the 10th person executed this year in the United States,
where more than 3,300 convicts are on death row. Nine of the
executions took place in Texas, where nearly half of the 53 US
executions took place in 2006.


Texas is one of the few states that has scheduled executions in
the coming months. Many states have suspended them, however, most
due to questions about lethal injection methods and as a result
of DNA evidence.

