

China Mobile, the nation's largest mobile operator, reported
Wednesday a 23 percent increase in 2006 net profit to 66 billion
yuan (8.5 billion US) on the back of strong subscriber numbers.


The figure was slightly ahead of market forecasts of 65.5 billion
yuan, compared with 53.5 billion yuan a year earlier, according
to an average estimate of 29 analysts polled by Thomson
Financial.


Revenue rose 21.5 percent to 295.4 billion yuan while subscribers
exceeded 300 million, up 22 percent from 2005.


"The group's subscriber base continued to grow rapidly and voice
usage volume achieved a notable increase," said company chairman
and chief executive officer Wang Jianzhou.


Revenue in value-added businesses grew 38.1 percent to 69.3
billion yuan, accounting for 23.5 percent of the group's total
operating revenue in the year, 2.9 percentage points above 2005.


The company's monthly average revenue per user was 90 yuan.


Wang said the company's value-added products such as short
messaging services (SMS) recorded robust growth last year, with
messages reaching nearly a billion a day.


He said the group actively explored market opportunities and
developed new customers with particular focus on the rural mobile
telecommunications market in China.


Nearly half of the group's subscriber growth last year came from
the rural markets.


Wang said the carrier will "actively explore" new mobile multi-
media products going forward.


He also said he expects further challenges in the sector with the
issuance of the licenses for third generation (3G) mobile
services.


"The deepening of reform in the national telecommunications
industry and issuance of 3G licenses in China may result in
substantial changes in the industry and the competitive
environment," he said.

