

A gas explosion at a mine in northern China has left 21 workers
trapped, the government's work safety agency said Wednesday, amid
reports that the colliery was operating illegally.


The accident occurred just after midnight on Sunday in Shanxi
province but local officials failed to immediately report the
mishap, the State Administration for Work Safety said on its
website.


Government and mine industry officials in Jincheng city refused
to comment on the incident, but Xinhua news agency said mine
operators had tried to cover it up and that the mine was
operating illegally.


"The responsible people have already been taken into police
custody," the report said. "The mine had not followed official
procedures and was illegally producing coal and expanding the
area of extraction."


After news of the mine accident was reported, police sealed the
mine as the government organised the rescue operation, Xinhua
said.


Mine bosses and a survivor of the blast were being interrogated,
it added.


Rescuers found the main shaft blocked but after removing the
obstacles found that the elevator and elevator cable had been
destroyed, further hampering efforts to locate the missing, it
said.


China's mines are the most dangerous in the world, with 4,746
miners dying in 2,845 accidents last year, according to official
figures.


Independent labour groups put the death toll at as many as 20,000
miners annually, as mine operators often cover up accidents to
avoid costly shutdowns and fines.


In related news, police in northeastern China's Liaoning province
have arrested the head of the Dongfang coal mine where six miners
died Sunday after a fire in the shaft, Xinhua said.


The mine boss was arrested for allegedly covering up the
accident, it said.

