

Teenager Hua Tian hopes to saddle up for China at next year's
Olympic Games, but first he needs help to buy a horse good enough
to compete, state media reported Wednesday.


The Beijing 17-year-old, who has been riding since he was four,
wants to become China's first ever Olympic equestrian competitor.


Already he has found a name for a horse, 'For the motherland,'
but just lacks the cash to buy one, The First newspaper said.


Riding fans in China have been rallying round and dozens of
people have signed up to help Hua, who has shown his ability
during regular competition in Europe over the past few seasons,
the paper said.


But the Olympics represents a step up and if Hua is to compete,
the youngster needs a four-legged partner who can match his
abilities, it said.


No Chinese horse meets the standard set by the International
Equestrian Federation for the Olympics so Hua would have to
import a mount from abroad, costing as much as 50,000 dollars,
the paper added.


Riding fans here have already begun collecting money with more
than 40 people offering contributions to a fund-raising campaign
launched by Wang Jiyu, general manager of a Beijing stable.


Wang told reporters he had contributed 10,000 yuan (1,300
dollars) in the hope of seeing Hua compete in the Olympic
equestrian event, which will be staged in Hong Kong.


"Equestrian events have been taking place at the Olympics for
over a 100 years and the Chinese flag has never been raised," he
said. "All I want is for China's flag to be raised this time
round."


Hua is based in England where he has been trained in Wiltshire by
top Australian equestrian coaches, Lucinda and Clayton
Fredericks.


They describe him as a natural talent with the ambition to become
a future star.


"All that stands in his way is having a horse of equal caliber,"
they said on their website.

