

Bangladesh authorities said Wednesday a comprehensive victory
over India could pave the way for the national team's first Test
tour to its mighty cricketing neighbour.


Bangladesh, perennial minnows in the cricket world, made a
glorious start at the World Cup with a five-wicket win over India
in their opening match on Saturday.


"This victory has brightened our chances for a full-fledged tour
of India in the near future," Bangladesh Cricket Board chief
executive officer Mahmudur Rahman told AFP.


"Certainly our case has been strengthened with this win and India
will now look at it with importance," he said, adding the victory
also reflected the country's growing cricket potential.


India was the opponent when Bangladesh played its debut Test
match at home soon after the country was inducted as the 10th
Test cricket nation in late 2000.


Since then, India has visited Bangladesh once, and has also
announced the date for a three-week tour to Bangladesh in May
this year.


But India is the only country among the Test-playing nations
which has not hosted any Test series against Bangladesh at home,
a fact that recently drew sharp criticism from some of
Bangladesh's cricket experts.


Under the six-year Future Tour Program (FTP) announced by the
International Cricket Council, each Test playing nation is
obligated to play a home-away Test series against all other Test
playing nations.


But Rahman said India had not announced any date for Bangladesh,
although officials of both countries discussed the issue recently
in South Africa.


Rahman said the cricket calendar in India was crowded as the
country was the most sought-after Test playing nation.

