

The US Navy said Tuesday it had stepped up vigilance following
Iran's recent seizure of 15 British marines and sailors for
allegedly entering Iranian waters.


"We need to be mindful of not just protecting our units but
ensure that our people are protected when they are off their ship
and then, we have procedures in place to ensure that something
like that doesn't occur to American sailors," said the chief of
naval operations, Admiral Michael Mullen.


"I am confident that we got those in place but I am mindful,
watching what occurred (to the British sailors), that we need to
be very vigilant with respect to that," he said, when answering a
question at a Washington forum.


The 14 British men and one woman were seized in the northern Gulf
on March 23 and accused of trespassing in Iranian waters.


Britain insists they were in Iraqi waters.


Mullen said the "main message" in the United States having two
aircraft carrier battle groups at present in the Persian Gulf "is
to reassure our friends" from a "position of great strength."


US President George W. Bush ordered a second US aircraft carrier
battle group to the Gulf in January and announced the deployment
of a Patriot missile defense battalion to the region to protect
allies against potential missile strikes.


Bush vowed at the time that US forces would "seek out and
destroy" any networks funneling weapons or fighters from Syria or
Iran into Iraq.


A senior US military official had said that the United States
planned to keep two aircraft carrier battle groups in the Gulf
for months -- the first such deployment since the first year of
the Iraq war.

