

Washington was waiting for Iran's response Tuesday to a request
for information about a retired FBI agent who went missing last
month while on a private visit to Iran, the State Department
said.


"We don't have confirmation yet that the Swiss have yet handed
over the inquiry to the Iranians. So we, therefore, have not
heard anything back from the Iranians yet, either," spokesman
Sean McCormack said.


Washington sent a request to Iran for information about the man
on Monday via the Swiss embassy in Tehran, which represents US
interests there because Iran and the United States have not had
diplomatic ties in 27 years.


McCormack added that the United States had informally requested
that the Swiss authorities ask for an Iranian investigation into
the whereabouts of the man, whose identity has not been
disclosed.


When the US government received no answer, it decided to write to
the Iranian leadership directly, via the Swiss embassy.


"I do know that they (the Swiss) have gotten back to us and said
that they don't know his welfare and whereabouts," McCormack
said.


McCormack said cases in which an American goes missing in Iran
tend to happen two or three times a year, and when it happens
Washington usually makes an informal request to the Swiss asking
them for information.


He was not able to clarify whether this had been the first time
the United States had sent an official letter.


The man has been missing since last month while on a private
visit to Iran, US officials said. He is believed to be middle-
aged, and was on Kish Island, a free-trade zone off the southern
Iranian coast.


According to a senior State Department official, US authorities
were informed that the man had disappeared around March 11.

