

Microsoft on Tuesday released a high-priority software patch
intended to fix a dangerous vulnerability in its Vista and
Windows operating systems.


The world's largest computer software company made the patch
available as hacker groups, most of them based in China,
intensified attacks crafted to exploit the weakness that
Microsoft disclosed on Thursday.


Microsoft released the patch a week ahead of its scheduled
monthly distribution of security updates.


The vulnerability was found in Windows and Vista "ani" files that
change cursors to hourglasses, animals or animated figures while
computers are executing programs, according to Finland-based
computer security firm F-Secure.


"We've seen a lot of activity relating to the ANI exploit during
the weekend," said F-Secure chief research officer Mikko
Hypponen.


"This vulnerability is really tempting for the bad guys. It's
easy to modify the exploit, and it can be launched via web or
e-mail fairly easily."


Hypponen said that the majority of the attacks were traced to
hacker groups in China.


The home version of Vista was released in January and touted by
Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft as it most secure software
ever.


The ANI exploit allows hackers a way to sneak in programs such as
"malware," malicious software, which steals user names and
passwords by tracking what users type on computer keyboards.


Microsoft urged computer owners to install the emergency patch,
designated MS07-017, from its security update website. Windows
software operates about 95 percent of the world's personal
computers.

