

Barcelona's Mexican international defender Rafael Marquez said on
Tuesday he would rather play for the Spanish giants instead of
his national team if the two side's schedules clash.


"I give priority to Barcelona. I would like to play all their
games and that is my plan," the 28-year-old told a news
conference.


The Spanish championship ends on June 17 but the Spanish Cup
final is not played till June 23, though, Barcelona are not
assured of a place in the final as they have to get past Getafe
in the two-legged semi-final.


Mexico are taking part in the CONCACAF Gold Cup in the US from
June 6-24 and the Copa America in Venezuela between June 26-July
15.


Marquez, who joined Barcelona in 2003 from Monaco, said he had
already spoken to Mexico coach Hugo Sanchez about his desire to
carry out his commitments to Barcelona before he reports for
international duty.


"I hope circumstances help and it won't be necessary to get
directors and FIFA involved, but my plan is to stay here until
the very last game."


He is not the first of Barca's foreign contingent to indicate he
would rather sit out international tournaments after the season
is over.


It has been claimed that two-time world footballer of the year
Ronaldinho wanted to miss the Copa America because the Brazilian
superstar has played so much over the past two years.


Defending champions Barcelona have a two-point lead in the title
race following their 2-1 defeat over Deportivo La Coruna last
weekend.

