

US President George W. Bush passed a tricky domestic test Tuesday
by proving he knew the price of a gallon of gas, one of the main
concerns of US voters.


"About 2.60-plus," Bush replied, when asked if he knew the price
of a gallon of gas. "Nationwide average."


The average price a gallon (3.7 liters) was 2.69 dollars (two
euros) on Tuesday, according to the American Automobile
Association (AAA), the country's main motoring group.


A wrong answer would have gone down badly with voters, as recent
polls have shown the cost of filling up their vehicles is one of
Americans' main preoccupations.


Bush's father, former president George Bush, once famously
flunked a similar test when he was heavily criticized for not
knowing the price of milk.


The current president Bush, however, was at pains to remind his
countrymen that the cost of fuel varies across the country.


"The price of gasoline obviously varies from region to region,
for a variety of reasons. Some has to do with the amount of
taxation at the pump. Some of it has to do with the boutique
fuels that have been mandated on a state-by-state basis," he
said.


"And the price of crude oil is on the rise because people get
spooked, for example ... when it looks like there may be a crisis
with a crude-oil-producing nation, like Iran.


"But the whole point about rising crude oil prices and rising
gasoline prices is that this country ought to work hard to get
off our addiction to oil," Bush added.


Gas prices in the United States are among the lowest of any
industrialized nation, and its roads are awash with large, gas-
guzzling cars.

