

Thailand on Wednesday started the parole process for a female
prisoner whose world boxing title win in a championship bout
behind bars could also end up winning her an early release.


Siriporn Taweesuk, a convicted drug dealer, beat Japan's Ayaka
Miyano on Tuesday to clinch the vacant World Boxing Council (WBC)
female light flyweight title.


The title bout took place at Bangkok's high-security Klong Prem
mixed prison, where the 24-year-old has served nearly nine years
of a 10-year sentence for selling small amounts of drugs.


Thai prisons boss Nathee Chitsawang said his department would
inform the justice ministry to start the parole process, which
could take up to two months.


"The committee will ... consider her behaviour in prison," he
told AFP. "We plan to take her on as a trainer at the prison if
she gets out."


Siriporn fought Miyano on the grounds of Klong Prem, where 700
people cheered on the local fighter, who entered the makeshift
arena accompanied by two women dressed as traditional Thai
warriors.


The ring girls who carried the signs announcing each round were
transvestites serving time at the jail. They wore high heels and
strutted around the ring as a prison band played folk music.


To defend her title, Siriporn will next meet the winner of a
fight between Mexico's Delia Lopez and Julia Sahin from Germany.


"After we know who is the winner, we will organise the time and
place for the bout against Siriporn," a WBC coordinator said.
"But normally Siriporn would have to fight within six months."


The corrections department said earlier this week that Siriporn
could be granted early parole so that she could defend her title
overseas.

