

Wall Street powered higher Tuesday as crude oil prices dipped on
signals of easing tensions between Iran and Britain and amid a
hint of some improvement in the troubled US housing market.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average rallied 127.59 points (1.03
percent) to 12,509.89 and the Nasdaq composite leapt 27.91 points
(1.15 percent) to 2,450.17 at the closing bell.


The Standard and Poor's 500 broad-market index rose 12.86 points
(0.90 percent) to a preliminary close of 1,437.41.


New York crude futures fell 1.30 dollars to close at 64.64
dollars a barrel after Iran and Britain started talks described
as a first step towards resolving the row over the capture of the
sailors.


For the stock market, "a drop in oil prices seems to be the focal
point," said Dick Green at Briefing.com.


This decline came "on the growing belief that the standoff
between Iran and the UK regarding the capture of 15 British
sailors will be resolved without military conflict," he added.


The rally gathered momentum after the National Association of
Realtors said its pending home sales index rose 0.7 percent in
February, a sign that the real estate slump may be easing.
Analysts said the unexpected rise was positive for the market.


John Wilson at Morgan Keegan said the market has been held back
by "the same concerns" -- inflation, Iran, Iraq, Federal Reserve
policy and the risk of recession.


But he added, "At this point, we don't see the likelihood of a
recession developing, so we continue to look to history as a
guide for how the year could unfold. If inflation stays under
control and corporate earnings slow, but a recession doesn't
develop, then we would expect both stock and bonds to do well in
the second half of the year."

