

The candidates for next week's East Timor presidential election
should publicly commit to addressing the country's human rights
problems and propose reforms, a rights group said Wednesday.


"Institutional weaknesses in the police, military and judiciary
have fuelled the current crisis in Timor-Leste," Human Rights
Watch researcher Charmain Mohamed said.


"Timor's next president should immediately address these
weaknesses so that the country can meet its international human
rights obligations," she said.


Violence has pulsed through impoverished East Timor since its
people voted for independence from neighbouring Indonesia in 1999
after 24 years of occupation.


At least 37 people were killed and 150,000 forced to flee during
unrest last year which led to the dispatch of an Australian-led
international peacekeeping force to stabilise the former
Portuguese colony.


"Long-term stability for Timor-Leste depends on transparent and
credible prosecutions of perpetrators of last year's violence,"
said Mohamed.


Human Rights Watch also called on the candidates to address "the
ongoing impunity for gross human rights violations perpetrated
during the Indonesian occupation."


The April 9 election will be the first since East Timor formally
won independence in 2002.


Eight candidates are vying for the presidency, a largely
ceremonial post, amid tightened security over concerns that the
poll could be a trigger for more violence.


The fledgling state's current prime minister, Nobel laureate Jose
Ramos-Horta, is thought one of the favourites to win, along with
Fransisco Guterres from Fretilin, East Timor's largest political
party.

