

A retired US FBI agent who went missing last month during a
private visit to Iran did not visit a resort island as reported
by US officials, the state-run IRNA news agency reported.


Amid growing tensions between Iran and the West, the United
States said earlier this week it had asked Tehran for information
about the missing man, whose name and age have not been
disclosed.


US officials have said the man went missing while visiting Kish,
a small island of Iran's southern coast that has grown into a
major resort and free trade zone. Press reports said he was
researching a documentary.


"There is no concrete evidence that a US citizen has entered
Kish," said an unnamed local official quoted by IRNA late
Tuesday.


"This is worthless news. Unfortunately this news is published
with a political aim and has no professional value."


"Instead of fabrication it would be better for the United States
to give evidence regarding the identity and flight information so
our local officials can investigate the matter," the official
added.


State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said on Tuesday that
Washington was still waiting for Iran's response to a request for
information about the retired agent, made through the Swiss
embassy in Tehran.


Washington has however stressed it sees no connection between the
man's disappearance and the affair of 15 British naval personnel
seized by Iran on March 23 allegedly for trespassing into Iranian
waters.


The United States cut diplomatic relations with Tehran in 1980
after its embassy in Tehran was seized by Islamist students after
the revolution and ties have remained frozen ever since.

