

Australian swimming authorities were Wednesday preparing to
submit Libby Lenton's 100m freestyle world record to the sport's
top body for ratification after she broke it during a mixed
relay.


The Australian star became the first woman in history to break
the 53-second barrier, but did it in the lead-off leg of a mixed
4x100m relay at the Duel in the Pool against a male United States
swimmer late Tuesday.


Lenton, who was racing US superstar Michael Phelps, shattered the
record with a time of 52.99 seconds, but the unusual nature of
the race means FINA must verify it to avoid any controversy over
the fact that she had Phelps leading her.


Swimming Australia, however, had no doubts. "We have already
begun the process of submitting the relevant paperwork to FINA,"
said Swimming Australia chief executive Glenn Tasker in a
statement.


"FINA will then follow their normal ratification procedures," he
added, cautioning however the process can take many weeks.


But Tasker said late Tuesday after talking to key officials at
the sport's governing body, FINA that he fully expected it to
ratify the record.


"The rule states about pacing, so if it was a fair dinkum race
off the gun then there is no reason why the world record will not
be ratified," he said.


"We have been told to submit the forms and all the details and
they cannot see a reason why FINA will not ratify it."


Lenton's stunning performance was however not enough to clinch
the Duel in the Pool match for Australia, as the USA won the meet
for the third time in succession, scoring 181.5 points to
Australia 129.5.

