

The Cameroon-Nigeria Mixed Commission will hold talks this week
to discuss the demarcated 700 kilometres (438 miles) of their
land border, part of the settlement ending their border dispute,
a UN statement said on Tuesday.


The session to begin Thursday in Abuja will review the results of
survey operations along the land boundary "after the successful
completion of demarcation of 232 kilometres (145 miles)" last
March, the UN Office for West Africa said in the statement.


"Some 700 kilometers of land boundary have so far been demarcated
in compliance with the 2002 judgement of the International Court
of Justice (ICJ)," it said, adding that another 500 kilometers to
be completed this year is on the agenda of this week's meeting.


The special representative of the UN secretary-general for West
Africa and commission chairman, Ahmedou Ould-Abdallah, said:
"Confidence building measures are improving continuously. In the
Bakassi Peninsula, the settlement success is well beyond all our
expectations."


The commission was established by the UN on November 15, 2002, at
the request of President Paul Biya of Cameroon and his Nigerian
counterpart Olusegun Obasanjo to follow up on the implementation
of the ICJ decision on the two nations' border dispute.


Nigeria last August formally handed over the oil-rich Bakassi
Peninsula to Cameroon in compliance with the ICJ ruling and UN-
brokered deadline.


The ceremony was designed to end a bitter dispute that dragged on
for 13 years between Abuja and Yaounde over ownership of the
territory, a 1,000-square- kilometre (400-square-mile) patch of
Atlantic coastal swamp.

