

Ukraine's political turmoil shows striking parallels to Russia's
bloody 1993 standoff between the Kremlin and parliament, which
left hundreds dead, Russian newspapers warned Wednesday.


"Events in Ukraine are painfully reminiscent of the tragedy of
October 1993 in Russia, with the same clash between president and
parliament, the same reluctance of the opponents to listen to
each other's arguments, the same harshness of the two sides and
mutual charges of usurping power and violating the constitution,"
the Izvestia daily wrote.


"Most in Kiev chant like a mantra that there will be no
bloodshed, that it will not come to shooting at the parliament as
it did in Moscow and that politicians will come to an agreement,"
the daily added.


The state Rossiyskaya Gazeta echoed the concern, noting that
Russia's 1993 crisis, which ended in then-president Boris Yeltsin
ordering tanks to fire on the parliament building, also began
with a bid to change the constitution and the balance of power
between president and parliament.


In case of a military standoff, the interior ministry forces
would likely back Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych's government,
while the state security service is considered loyal to the pro-
Western President Viktor Yushchenko, the Gazeta daily wrote.


Although the army is subordinate to Yushchenko's supporter
Defence Minister Anatoly Grytsenko, it could swing the other way
due to opposition to Grytsenko's controversial NATO sympathies,
the paper said.


Political upheaval in Ukraine reached a new high earlier this
week as Yushchenko ordered the dissolution of parliament and snap
parliamentary elections for May 27, with lawmakers voting to defy
his decree and the government backing them up.

