

China's top negotiator with North Korea doubted Wednesday that
Pyongyang would meet next week's deadline to shut down nuclear
facilities in line with a breakthrough US-backed deal, reports
said.


Wu Dawei, speaking to Japanese journalists in Beijing, said a row
has yet to be resolved over transferring funds to North Korea
that were unfrozen in a concession by the United States, Kyodo
News and Jiji Press said.


"There is a gap of a certain size," Wu said, as quoted by Kyodo
News.


Asked about the possibility that North Korea would not meet the
deadline, Wu said: "I think that will be the outcome. It cannot
be helped."


China is North Korea's main ally and the broker of the six-nation
talks that led to a February 13 agreement with nuclear-armed
Pyongyang.


Under the deal, North Korea promised to shut down and seal its
plutonium- producing Yongbyon reactor and other plants by April
14 in exchange for energy aid.


But Pyongyang last month stormed out of talks -- which group the
two Koreas, China, Japan, Russia and the United States -- unless
it receives some 25 million dollars of its funds frozen in a
Macau bank.


Washington in 2005 blacklisted the money in Macau due to
accusations of money laundering and counterfeiting. It announced
the end of the sanction last month and said it was up to the
Macau authorities to release the cash.


But the funds were not immediately transferred and North Korea
has insisted it will not cooperate further unless it sees the
money. The problem has reportedly stemmed from finding a bank to
handle the cash.


Japan has also voiced pessimism on North Korea meeting the
deadline.

