

Wall Street shares powered higher Tuesday as crude oil prices
dipped on signals of easing tensions between Iran and Britain and
amid a hint of some improvement in the troubled US housing
market.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average rallied 128.00 points (1.03
percent) to 12,510.30 and the Nasdaq composite leapt 28.07 points
(1.16 percent) to 2,450.33.


The Standard and Poor's 500 broad-market index rose 13.22 points
(0.93 percent) to 1,437.41.


Helping sentiment, New York crude futures fell 1.30 dollars to
close at 64.64 dollars a barrel after Iran and Britain started
talks described as a first step towards resolving the row over
Tehran's capture of 15 sailors and marines.


For the stock market, "a drop in oil prices seems to be the focal
point," said Dick Green at Briefing.com.


This decline came "on the growing belief that the standoff
between Iran and the UK regarding the capture of 15 British
sailors will be resolved without military conflict," he added.


The rally gathered momentum after the National Association of
Realtors said its pending home sales index rose 0.7 percent in
February, a sign that the real estate slump may be easing.
Analysts said the unexpected rise was positive for the market.


Al Goldman at AG Edwards said the report "boosted home
improvement retailers" and lifted overall sentiment on Wall
Street.


John Wilson at Morgan Keegan said the market has been held back
by "the same concerns" -- inflation, Iran, Iraq, Federal Reserve
policy and the risk of recession.


But he added, "At this point, we don't see the likelihood of a
recession developing, so we continue to look to history as a
guide for how the year could unfold. If inflation stays under
control and corporate earnings slow, but a recession doesn't
develop, then we would expect both stock and bonds to do well in
the second half of the year."


Among stocks in focus, Google rose 14.07 dollars to 472.60 after
the Internet giant announced a deal with satellite broadcaster
EchoStar on an automated system for buying, selling, delivering
and measuring television ads on EchoStar's DISH Network. EchoStar
shares rose 50 cents to 44.04.


General Motors rose 64 cents to 31.47 despite reporting a 7.7
percent drop in monthly sales that was below most expectations.
Ford lost a penny to 8.08 and DaimlerChrysler's US shares fell
1.07 to 82.95 after reporting weaker US sales.


Qualcomm added 63 cents to 43.71 after announcing new patent
infringement lawsuits against Finnish mobile phone maker Nokia,
whose US shares rose 26 cents to 22.96.


Aerospace giant Boeing climbed 1.07 to 89.90 after announcing it
had over 500 orders for its new 787 Dreamliner aircraft after
getting five new orders from Japan Airlines.


Bonds drifted lower. The yield on the 10-year US Treasury bond
rose to 4.664 percent from 4.642 percent Monday and that on the
30-year bond edged up to 4.846 percent against 4.836 percent.
Bond yields and prices move in opposite directions.

