

Saudi Arabian Prince Alwaleed bin Talal is looking to Hong Kong
and China as he considers an Asian expansion of his hotel empire,
a report said Wednesday.


"I believe in Hong Kong and I believe in China," the Prince said
in a Standard newspaper report. "We believe in China and the
growth story of China."


Alwaleed said he was looking for investment opportunities for a
billion dollar "war chest" his Kingdom Hotel Investment business
had amassed.


He said China had become a focus for Saudi businessmen, who have
put funds into major company listings.


"This shows the Saudi investors have a keen interest in China,"
said Alwleed, who was also due to visit Beijing, Shanghai and
Macau during his Asian tour.


Such is the regard in which China holds Alwaleed -- who is not a
member of the Saudi government --- that President Hu Jintao made
a point of meeting him during visit to Saudi Arabia last year.


Alwaleed also said in the Standard report that he was looking to
join forces with the Chinese government, or businessmen in Hong
Kong and the mainland to invest in Africa.


"Africa needs everything. There is so much potential," he said.


China has recently made diplomatic and business links with Africa
a priority as it searches for energy and raw material resources
to power its fast growing economy.


President Hu made a 12-day, eight-nation tour of Africa in
February, a trip which attracted massive attention as Beijing
sought to expand economic ties.


Alwaleed, who gave no scheduled press conference, was talking to
reporters as he left the Four Seasons Hotel here, where reports
said he had stayed in a 45,000 dollars-a-night (5,770 US dollars)
suite.


A spokesman for Citigroup, in which the prince has a large
holding, said that as he was on a private trip, the bank was
unable to confirm whether or not he had visited its offices.


Forbes has rated Alwaleed the world's eighth richest man, with a
20 billion dollar portfolio of investments.

