

Venus Williams, who is looking to re-establish herself as a
dominant player on the WTA Tour, cruised to an easy first-round
win Tuesday at the 600,000 WTA Amelia Island tournament.


A five-time Grand Slam champion, Williams ended a drought of
nearly two years with her victory at Memphis earlier this season.
But she was beaten by Maria Sharapova in the third round at Miami
last month.


The winner at Miami was Serena Williams, who also won the
Australian Open and has rediscovered the form that makes her the
most overwhelming player in the sport.


A victory in this tier two claycourt event would help Venus
Williams reclaim her spot as one of the top players on tour. In
the draw as an unseeded player, the 2002 champion took a step
toward that goal with a 6-1, 6-2 trouncing of Aravane Rezai of
France.


Next up for Williams is fourth-seeded Patty Schnyder of
Switzerland, against whom she is 8-0 in her career.


The top eight seeds had first-round byes. Three were in action
Tuesday, including top seed and defending champion Nadia Petrova
of Russia, who routed Kaia Kanepi of Estonia, 6-4, 6-0.


Ranked seventh in the world, Petrova won in Paris earlier this
season.  A year ago, she won her last nine sets to claim the
title here, beating Italy's Francesca Schiavone in the final.


Petrova's next foe will be No. 15 Jie Zheng of China, who breezed
past Italian Mara Santangelo, 6-3, 6-3.


Third seed Daniela Hantuchova of Slovakia, who won the Pacific
Life Open at Indian Wells, trounced Nuria Llagostera Vives of
Spain, 6-1, 6-3.


She will face wild card Dominika Cibulkova of Slovakia, who
eliminated Vera Dushevina of Russia, 6-1, 6-3.

