

Japanese automakers continue to beat US rivals in their home
market with Toyota Motor Sales posting record March sales gains
in the United States Tuesday as the Big Three struggled with
further losses.


General Motors Corp, Ford Motor Co. and DaimlerChrysler have all
been hard hit by a shift away from the gasoline-guzzling trucks
and sports utility vehicles that had accounted for the bulk of
their profits in recent years.


They have been dramatically ramping down production to account
for their steady loss of market share.


Though they were slow to introduce the popular small car-based
crossover sports utility vehicles, the Big Three reported good
demand for the new models they introduced last year.


But it was not enough to match last year's record incentive-
fueled March sales or compensate for dramatic cuts in low-margin
sales to rental car companies.


The Big Three held just 51.6 percent of the US market in the
first three months of the year while Asian brands commanded 41.9
percent, according to Autodata.


GM saw its market share slip to 22.9 percent in the first quarter
from 23.9 percent a year ago while Ford dropped to 15.4 percent
from 17.6 percent in the first quarter of 2006.


DaimlerChrysler's market share fell to 13.8 percent from 14.3
percent a year earlier.


Toyota, however, jumped to 15.6 percent of the US market from
11.2 percent in the first quarter of 2006.


General Motors Corp., which is battling with Toyota to maintain
its position as the world's largest automaker, saw US sales fall
7.7 percent to 349,867 vehicles in March after a planned
reduction in sales to rental car companies.


Sales for the first quarter of 2007 fell 5.6 percent to 909,094
vehicles, the Detroit-based automaker said.


Retail sales, however, were up 0.5 percent for the quarter while
fleet sales fell significantly on the back of a reduction of
nearly 60,000 vehicles sold to rental companies.


"As we continue to build upon our strategy of focusing on value,
lowering daily rental sales and increasing residual values, we
were able to grow retail sales for the quarter," said Mark
LaNeve, a vice president of GM North American sales.


The company posted "year-over-year increases in 19 vehicle
lines," he said.


Struggling Ford Motor Co. managed to hold onto the number two
spot in the critical US market, even as its sales fell a monthly
nine percent to 264,975 vehicles.


The declines were largely on the back of weak truck sales and a
planned reduction in sales to rental car companies.


Sales for the first quarter of the year are now down 13.2 percent
at 642,960 vehicles, the US automaker reported.


"Ford is moving quickly to operate profitably at lower volumes
and a changed mix, and we are encouraged our retail market share
appears to be stabilizing over the past several months," Mark
Fields, Ford's president of the Americas division, said in a
statement.


Toyota got a boost from strong demand for gasoline-electric
hybrid vehicles as total sales rose 7.7 percent to 242,675
vehicles in March.


Total passenger car sales rose 15.1 percent to 140,009, led by
strong sales of the new Camry. Truck sales rose 7.7 percent to
242,675 vehicles in March.


DaimlerChrysler AG settled into the fourth spot as it saw US
sales fall four percent in March to 228,047 vehicles after
weakness at the struggling Chrysler Group offset gains at the
luxury Mercedes division.


"Our new launches hit very good results," Steven Landry, vice
president of sales at the Chrysler division, said in a conference
call.


"We're very confident. We believe the plan we have going into the
second quarter is a good one."


American Honda Motor Co. saw sales rise 7.3 percent to a record
143,392 vehicles in March. It commanded a market share of 9.3
percent, according to Autodata.


Nissan North America saw a 3.9 percent increase in March sales to
111,119 vehicles, winning 7.2 percent of the market.


Hyundai Motor America sales rose 0.5 percent to 41,984 vehicles
and 2.7 percent of the market.

