

South Africa skipper Graeme Smith was happy to see his frontline
batsmen hitting form in a comfortable seven-wicket win over
Ireland in the World Cup Super Eights here on Tuesday.


In a match twice interrupted by rain and which was reduced to 35
overs each, the Proteas collected another two points to move into
fourth place in the table.


"Our top four have had some good batting in the tournament so
far," said Smith.


"It was good to see Ashwell Prince get some runs (47 not out) and
find his feet. He just needed time in the middle.


"It's another two points. Considering the rain interruptions, we
won convincingly and we adapted well to the stoppages."


Jacques Kallis was named man of the match for his unbeaten 66 and
he hopes his time spent in the middle will stand him in good
stead as the tournament progresses.


"It was nice to get some runs and to get through the new ball,"
said Kallis who came to the wicket after just three balls of the
South Africa innings following AB de Villiers dismissal.


It was de Villiers' third nought of the competition.


"Ireland did the basics well and put us under pressure. We wanted
to finish the game properly but the wicket was slow after the
rain and it was one of those grinding days.


"We have a few important weeks ahead. The guys are playing some
good cricket and if we keep doing what we have been doing, you
never know what will happen."


Ireland skipper Trent Johnston paid tribute to his team's
fighting qualities.


"The toss was crucial. They bowled really well at the start and
pinned us back. Then they have the quality of Langeveldt and Hall
to call upon," said Johnston.


"But we hung in there and fought to the end. We cut down on the
boundaries and now we are looking forward to playing New Zealand
next week."

