

An Indian chief executive of a US firm was charged Tuesday with
shipping restricted weapons technology to the Indian government
in a case that could put a pending bilateral nuclear deal under
extra congressional scrutiny.


Parthasarathy Sudarshan, 46, CEO of Cirrus Electronics, was
arraigned before a US magistrate judge on charges of smuggling
technology linked to development of aircraft, missile and
aerospace systems, government attorneys said.


He and his company's international sales manager, Mythili Gopal,
36, were arrested on March 23 following joint investigations by
the FBI and commerce, customs and immigration agencies. Gopal
will be officially charged on April 17.


Facing a 15-count indictment, they were charged with acting as
"illegal agents of a foreign government" and violating the
International Emergency Economic Powers Act and the Arms Export
Control Act.


The indictment also charged other Cirrus employees AKN Prasad of
Bangalore, India, and Sampath Sundar, 47, of Singapore, for their
roles in the alleged offenses.


"These arrests put a network of technology smugglers out of
business and demonstrate that we have no tolerance for weapons
proliferators who illegally supply entities with weapons
technology that has applications in the development of aircraft,
missile and aerospace systems," said Assistant Attorney General
Wainstein.


According to the indictment, Sudarshan and Gopal had acquired
electrical components that could have applications in missile
guidance and firing systems for Indian state enterprises Vikram
Sarabhai Space Center (VSSC) and Bharat Dynamics, Ltd. (BDL).


VSSC is an Indian Department of Space agency and produces space
launch vehicles in activities that encompassed both civilian
spacecraft and ballistic missiles, while BDL, an Indian Defense
Ministry enterprise, is the prime production agency for missile
weaponry systems.


If convicted of the charges, Sudarshan could face up to 10 years
in prison, while Gopal up to six years and Prasad and Sundar up
to eight years.


"Networks that procure US technology whose export is restricted
to combat proliferation and then seek to evade US export and
licensing regulations undermine our national security," said
Jeffrey Taylor, US Attorney for the District of Columbia.


Indian government officials were linked to the alleged scam,
according to the indictment.


An official in US President George W. Bush's administration said
the case could undermine American Congress support for nuclear
and space cooperation with India, the Washington Times reported
Tuesday.


State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said although the case
was a "serious matter," he did not see "any connection" with a
landmark bilateral civilian nuclear agreement that Bush signed
into law in December.


Under the agreement, which is still being discussed for final US
Congress approval, the United States would provide nuclear
technology and fuel to India.


American officials have often cited India's "clean" non-
proliferation record to market the pact among legislators.

