

Long-haired Pakistani tribesmen pounded war drums for the first
time in three years amid the heaviest fighting yet against
foreign Al-Qaeda militants, officials and residents said
Wednesday.


Around 1,000 tribesmen armed with rockets, mortars and
machineguns answered a call to mount a final push against Uzbek,
Chechen and Arab insurgents from bunkers in the South Waziristan
tribal area bordering Afghanistan, they said.


Officials say more than 200 people have died during two weeks of
vicious battles between the foreign rebels and the formerly pro-
Taliban tribes who have come over to the government side.


"Soon after morning prayers there was a heavy sound of war drums
and tribesmen were seen leaving in different directions amid
shouts of 'Allahu Akhbar' (God is Greatest) and 'Victory,
victory, victory'," Malik Sangeen Khan, a resident of the
region's main town of Wana, told AFP.


"Since this morning there have been massive sounds of rockets and
gunfire. It is louder even than the Pakistani military operations
here in 2004."


The war drums are made from animal hide stretched over wooden
frames.


Ethnic Pashtuns in the semi-autonomous tribal zone play different
drumbeats to call tribesmen to councils or celebrations -- but
residents said this was the first time the war song has rung out
since 2004.


Able-bodied males who refuse to answer the call are fined heavily
and their houses are burned down or demolished.


Security officials said several groups of tribesmen each made up
of around 70 to 100 people headed out of Wana early Wednesday to
assault militant positions to the west and south, within a 12
kilometre (eight mile) radius.


"Many of the Uzbeks have been flushed out and they are in a few
bunkers only now. Their leader Tahir Yuldashev has probably
escaped, but we don't know where," a senior security official
said on condition of anonymity.


Yuldashev is wanted in his homeland for leading a militant
organisation called the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan. Security
officials describe him as having been a close confidant of Al-
Qaeda supremo Osama bin Laden.


Thousands of foreign militants were given shelter by Pakistani
tribesmen after fleeing Afghanistan when US-led forces toppled
the Taliban regime in late 2001, but the two sides have now
fallen out violently.

