

South Korea will soon start excavating burial sites of civilians
massacred by their own troops or police before and during the
1950-53 Korean War, officials said Wednesday.


It will be the first excavation of the remains of civilians
killed for alleged espionage or collaboration with communist
North Korea, the Truth and Reconciliation Commission said.


Excavations will start next month at four different sites where
the remains of at least 5,000 victims are believed to have been
buried.


They are among some 150 locations across the country where mass
killings of civilians took place before and during the war.


The four locations include one in Sannae village near the central
city of Daejeon where thousands of leftist inmates from Daejeon
Prison and other suspected communists were massacred by South
Koreans.


"The dig is aimed at securing evidence of the massacres and
consoling the souls of those who were victimised by state power,"
commission spokesman Lee Myung-Gon told AFP.


Since the commission came into being in late 2005 following a new
law, it has received reports of more than 7,800 cases of civilian
killings, he said.


One of the most notorious massacres was in the southern island of
Jeju, where historians say around 30,000 were killed during a
bloody crackdown on leftist agitators in 1948.


President Roh Moo-Hyun, a former human rights activist, visited
Jeju last year to offer an apology for the deaths. He promised to
shed light on similar killings that had been hushed up during the
Cold War.


South Korea's first president Syngman Rhee, who took office in
1948, was forced into exile in Hawaii in 1960. After a succession
of military-backed dictators, the nation became a democracy in
1987.

