

Women who start taking hormone therapy within 10 years of
starting menopause may run less risk of developing heart disease
than those who begin treatment later, a study published Tuesday
said.


"Overall, hormone therapy did not reduce the risk of coronary
heart disease (CHD)," said the study after a secondary analysis
of findings from two clinical trials.


"However, the farther a woman was from the onset of menopause
when she began hormone therapy, the greater her risk of CHD due
to hormone therapy appeared to be," added the study in the
Journal of the American Medical Association.


The first clinical trial by the team at the Women's Health
Initiative in Bethesda, Maryland, involved 10,739 women who had
undergone a hysterectomy, some of whom had been given estrogen
treatments and some a placebo.


The second trial was made up of 16,608 menopausal women who had
not had a hysterectomy, but had been given either a placebo or a
hormone therapy treatment of estrogen and a powerful
progesterone-like compound.


"The analyses also suggest that the increased risk in heart
disease due to hormone therapy in older women is primarily in
those who also have hot flashes and night sweats," the study
said.


The risk of mortality was reduced in those women aged 50 to 59,
while the dangers of developing heart disease were higher in
women aged over 70 who started taking hormone treatments.


"The absence of excess absolute risk of CHD and the suggestion of
reduced total mortality in younger women offers some reassurance
that hormones remain a reasonable option for the short-term
treatment of menopausal symptoms," the study said.


"But (it) does not necessarily imply an absence of harm over
prolonged periods of hormone use."

