

The dollar held firm close to a one-month high against the yen in
Asian trade Wednesday as players continued to take advantage of
Japan's low interest rates to raise funds to invest overseas,
dealers said.


The dollar stood at 118.84 yen in Tokyo morning trade after
118.89 yen in New York late Tuesday, when it hit the highest
level since early March.


The euro gained to 1.3333 dollars from 1.3329 but slipped to
158.42 yen from 158.50.


"Positive sentiment towards the dollar strengthened after the US
currency rose above the mid-118 yen level," said Resona Bank
dealer Shigeru Nakane.


"We believe that there is a possibility that the dollar will
climb above the 119 yen level," he said.


The dollar gained support from a 0.7 percent rise in US pending
home sales,, gains on global stock markets and hopes that the
crisis over the capture of British sailors and marines in Iran
may ease soon, Nakane said.


"It appears that negative factors for the dollar have weakened,"
he said.


Relatively thin trading and no major fresh news ahead of the
Easter weekend also encouraged foreign exchange players to focus
on interest rate differentials, Nakane said.


In so-called carry trades, investors borrow currencies from
countries with low interest rates, such as the yen, in order to
invest in assets in countries with higher interest rates, such as
Britain or Australia.


Typically, carry trades are detrimental for low-yielding
currencies such as the yen and beneficial for higher yielding
units.


Pressure on the yen eased somewhat after Australia's central bank
left interest rates on hold, despite market speculation of a rate
hike that had lifted the Australian dollar to a 10-year high
against the US unit.


The Australian dollar was at 0.8090 US dollars, easing back
further from a recent decade high of 0.8181, dealers said.

