

South Korean K.J. Choi, whose best major finish was a third-place
Masters showing in 2004, is not shocked by the growing number of
Asian players at the year's first major tournament.


Korean compatriot Yang Yong-Eun, India's Jeev Milkha Singh and
Japan's Hideto Tanihara are ready for their Masters debuts
Thursday at Augusta National Golf Club while Choi and Japan's
Shingo Katayama are back for more.


"I'm not surprised at all," Choi said. "It's good. It is the
first time that two Koreans are playing in the Masters and we've
got Jeev here as well."


Choi, who has shared his knowledge of Augusta National with Yang
during two days of practice rounds, credits the Asian Tour with
launching more talent from the region into the elite levels of
the game.


"The Asian Tour is growing bigger and this has certainly helped,"
Choi said. "There are bigger events in Asia now and more quality
players are coming through from Asia."


Choi, ranked 24th, has won four times on the US PGA Tour, most
recently last year in Charlotte. The 36-year-old from Wando
island who once washed cars to earn money for practice now plays
upon one of golf's grandest stages.


"I've got good memories on this course," said Choi. "My goal this
week is a top- five finish or better. I'm looking for some good
rounds but I will need to stay patient."


Choi trailed US veteran Phil Mickelson and South Africa's Ernie
Els here in 2004 but is confident he has the form to equal that
performance, his best in any major.


"I've played 27 holes in practice over the last two days and the
greens are in good shape," Choi said. "I've had a good start to
the year with three top-10s and my game is getting better. I'm
doing well so far."


Putting woes saw Choi stumble to a pair of 76s and miss the cut,
but with an improved cut shot and an emphasis on his short game,
Choi has confidence his fifth Masters could be charmed.


"I'm putting a lot better and my irons feel good, especially my
short game," Choi said.

