

Australian share prices rallied strongly Wednesday on more
takeover activity to close up 1.39 percent at record levels,
fully recovering from the Chinese-led sell-off of late February,
dealers said.


They said a strong lead from Wall Street overnight supported the
region and then the Reserve Bank of Australia's decision to leave
interest rates unchanged, when many had expected a hike, boosted
sentiment further.


The benchmark SP/ASX 200 jumped 83.8 points 6,097.2 while the
broader All Ordinaries index rose 81.4 points to an all-time high
of 6,079.0.


Turnover was 1.72 billion shares worth 6.24 billion dollars (5.07
billion US) as the market rose from the open. Gains led falls 772
to 487 with 312 stocks unchanged.


The market opened strongly after conglomerate Wesfarmers
announced a 19.7 billion dollar offer for the nation's second
largest retailer, Coles Group, which added 0.75 dollars or 4.66
percent to a record 16.86 dollars.


Wesfarmers gained 1.69 or 4.58 percent to 38.60.


Aequs Securities head of institutional trading Ric Klusman said
"Wesfarmers' offer is fairly attractive and with a scrip (share)
component, that's more attractive to local institutional
investors."


At the same time, Coles did slip back slightly as investors
became less certain that a consortium led by buy-out specialists
Kohlberg Kravis Roberts would return to the fray and top
Wesfarmers' 16.47 dollars per share offer.


Dealers said print, radio and television stocks was mixed as new
cross-media ownership and foreign investment rules came into
force.


Stocks such as newspaper group Fairfax and radio network Southern
Cross Broadcasting retreated as expected takeover bids did not
eventuate. Fairfax fell 0.04 to 5.10 and Southern Cross lost 0.07
to 17.13.


But West Australian Newspapers rose strongly as television
network Seven increased its stake in the company to more than 15
percent.


Regional pay-TV provider Austar jumped too on confirmation it had
received approaches from third parties regarding its ownership.


Seven gained 0.14 to 11.47, West Australian News added 1.03 to a
record 17.00 and Austar gained 0.065 to 1.695, also a record.


PBL ended up 0.36 at 20.21 as the broadcasting and gaming giant's
joint venture with Macquarie Bank agreed to acquire Gateway
Casinos Income Fund, one of the largest casino operators in
western Canada.


The major banks were ahead -- Commonwealth Bank rose 0.67 to
51.00, National Australia Bank gained 0.50 to 41.20, ANZ added
0.19 to 29.84 and Westpac was up 0.07 at 26.17.


Index heavyweight BHP Billiton rose 0.55 to 30.64 and fellow
miner Rio Tinto added 2.09 to 80.99.


Telstra put on 0.09 to 4.67 and rival SingTel added 0.07 to 4.28.


Qantas fell 0.01 to 5.18.

