

North Korea has named a close aide to leader Kim Jong-Il as its
new point man on South Korea, Seoul's National Intelligence
Service said Wednesday.


The move is expected to lay the groundwork for improving
relations, according to a source quoted by Yonhap news agency.


Kim Yang-Gon, 68, was appointed in mid-March to head the
unification department of the ruling Workers' Party that
supervises all inter-Korean affairs, an NIS spokesman said.


"It has been confirmed that Kim Yang-Gon has taken the helm of
the unification department since mid-March," the spokesman told
AFP.


The post had been vacant since August 2006 when his predecessor
Rim Dong-Ok died of cancer, according to Seoul officials.


Kim led the Workers' Party international department before
becoming a counsellor at the National Defence Commission headed
by Kim Jong-Il.


He accompanied the leader on a secret visit to China in 2001 and
sat alongside him at a meeting with South Korea's then-
unification minister Chung Dong-Young in June 2005.


There is speculation that Kim Yang-Gon may also head the less
powerful government organisation handling inter-Korean affairs,
the Committee for the Peaceful Reunification of the Fatherland.
The NIS has not confirmed this.


This post has remained empty since October 2003 when Kim Yong-Sun
died in a traffic accident.


South Korea suspended regular food and fertiliser aid to its
communist neighbour after the North's missile tests last July and
relations soured further after Pyongyang's nuclear test last
October.


But the atmosphere has improved since the North pledged in
February to scrap its nuclear programme in exchange for economic
aid and diplomatic benefits.

