

A Malaysian state has accused the Philippines of hampering
efforts to deport thousands of illegal Filipinos as local
residents Wednesday said their presence led to crime.


Musa Aman, the chief minister of Sabah state, said Manila was not
cooperating in accepting its nationals back, the state Bernama
news agency reported.


"What I want to say here is that we will continue to round up the
illegal immigrants in Sabah to ensure they are sent back to their
home countries," Musa was quoted as saying.


"However, to repatriate them all is not easy because some
countries, particularly the Philippines, have failed to give
decent cooperation, causing the process to send their nationals
back taking a very long time," he said.


Sabah shares a border with Indonesia and is separated by the
narrow Sulu sea from the Mindanao region in the southern
Philippines, which shares cultural ties with Sabah.


Officials say there are up to half a million illegals living in
Sabah -- mainly Muslim Filipinos and Indonesians who are engaged
in local industries such as fishing, plantation and construction.


Malaysia has launched a number of mass deportations, and in June
last year held high-level talks with the Philippines over what
both sides said was the growing problem of Filipino migration.


"Police in all districts have carried out operations almost every
day to trace and round up the illegal immigrants and hold them at
the detention centres pending repatriation," Musa said.


But Patrick Sindu, president of the Consumers Association of
Sabah, went further Wednesday, saying that the problem was "very
serious" and accused many illegals of criminal activities such as
robbery and rape.


"It is clear the Malaysia government has no political will to
solve the illegal problem," he said.

