

Microsoft said Tuesday that it fired a legal salvo against
traffickers of its software discounted for students overseas.


The Redmond, Washington, software colossus said it filed nine
lawsuits in US federal courts and sent more than 50 "cease and
desist" letters to companies in Jordan and other countries.


Microsoft accused the companies of making millions of dollars in
illegal profits by trafficking in specially priced academic
software intended for academic programs.


The lawsuits charged the companies with posing as academic
software resellers to get hundreds of thousands of copies of
Microsoft Windows and Office software discounted for students.


The companies reaped millions of dollars in profits by selling
the software to US Internet retailers instead of schools or
students, court documents allege.


"Jordan has invested heavily in transforming itself into a full-
fledged knowledge economy," Jordan's minister of information and
communications technology Basem Rousan said in a written
statement.


"Companies that break Jordan's intellectual property laws will be
prosecuted to the full extent of the law. Investigations are
being pursued in other countries where a similar scheme has been
used."


Internet retailer EDirectSoftware.com, accused of being one of
the largest offenders, has reportedly agreed to settle
Microsoft's lawsuit out of court for more than a million dollars
in cash and property.


"The defendants are charged with profiting from selling clearly
marked educational software to unsuspecting retail customers who
were not licensed to use it and potentially depriving students
and schools of the opportunity to benefit from the latest
technologies," said Microsoft attorney Bonnie MacNaughton.


Microsoft said that other merchants that received cease and
desist letters have agreed to voluntarily stop selling the
software, which is marked "Student Media" and "Not for resale."

