

China's state-run trade union wants McDonald's and other fast-
food chains to make up wages for part-time staff who it claimed
were underpaid, state media said Wednesday.


The All-China Federation of Trade Unions made the call as an
investigation confirmed McDonald's, Kentucky Fried Chicken and
Pizza Hut had underpaid part- time workers in the southern city
of Guangzhou, the China Daily said.


"A joint investigation (with) the labour authorities confirmed
media reports about the companies' unlawful practice," said Li
Shouzhen, a senior union official, according to the newspaper.


"The federation will uncompromisingly fight any practice that
violates workers' rights," he added.


Li said his federation had asked its branch in the southern
province of Guangdong to negotiate with the companies on behalf
of the 3,000-odd part-time workers, most of whom are college
students.


The New Express newspaper based in Guangzhou, capital of
Guangdong, reported last week the three companies were paying
part-time workers up to 40 percent less than the minimum wage of
7.5 yuan (97 cents) per hour.


It also accused the restaurants of demanding part-time employees
work full-time without corresponding benefits.


The case has attracted broad public attention and the local
labour authorities in Guangdong have rolled out the pay probe
across the whole province.


Li said his federation and the Ministry of Labour and Social
Security will jointly launch a nationwide investigation next
month on payment, minimum wages and labour contracts in
enterprises.


McDonald's and Yum! Brands, the owner of Kentucky Fried Chicken
and Pizza Hut, were not immediately available for comment when
contacted by AFP Wednesday.

