

Japanese share prices rose 1.53 percent in morning trade
Wednesday as gains on Wall Street and a weaker yen cheered
investors, dealers said.


They said buyers were also encouraged by a dip in crude oil
prices on signals of easing tensions between Iran and Britain
over Tehran's capture of 15 sailors and marines.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
rose 264.60 points to 17,508.65 by the lunch break.


The TOPIX index of all issues on the Tokyo Stock Exchange's first
section added 23.52 points or 1.38 percent to 1,727.84.


Gainers led decliners 1,392 to 235, with 99 stocks flat.


Volume was 1.1 billion shares, the same as Tuesday morning.


"Recent worries about the US economy have receded after gains (on
Wall Street) overnight," said Kazuhiro Takahashi, equity general
manager at Daiwa Securities SMBC.


He said easing oil prices had also supported the market here.


"Risk-taking capacity has increased as causes for concern have
decreased, so tending to expand yen carry trades. This has
softened the yen, helping make investors more optimistic about
the earnings of exporters," Takahashi said.


In so-called carry trades, investors borrow currencies from
countries with low interest rates, such as the yen, in order to
invest in assets in countries with higher interest rates, such as
Britain or Australia.


Sony rose 100 yen or 1.7 percent to 6,100 after its US games unit
said it was cutting the North American delivery price of the
PlayStation Portable game console by 30 dollars to 169.99
dollars.


Among other electronics, Matsushita Electric Industrial rose 55
yen or 2.3 percent to 2,470, Sharp gained 45 yen or 2.0 percent
to 2,315 and Pioneer climbed 25 yen or 1.6 percent to 1,559.


Shinsei Bank was up 15 yen or 2.7 percent at 578 as investors
shrugged off a warning from Japan's first foreign-owned lender
that it expects a net loss of 58 billion yen (488 million
dollars) for the fiscal year ended March 31, having previously
forecast a net profit of 40 billion yen.


Oil shares were lower after crude oil prices dropped. Inpex
Holdings lost 30,000 yen or 2.9 percent to one million, Nippon
Oil fell five yen or 0.5 percent to 952 and Cosmo Oil shed six
yen or 1.2 percent to 493.

