

Boeing Co. said Tuesday it received orders for five additional
787 Dreamliner aircraft from Japan Airlines Corp., to bring the
overall total for its new jetliner over 500.


The JAL order for five 787-8 airplanes, in addition to several
orders from unidentified customers, brings the 787's order total
to 514 from 43 customers since its launch in April 2004, Boeing
said in a statement.


JAL's total 787 order was boosted to 35 airplanes from its
previous order of 30 in December 2004.


"This is an unprecedented achievement for Boeing and yet another
wonderful milestone for the 787 program," said Scott Carson,
president and chief executive officer of Boeing Commercial
Airplanes.


"We are very gratified that the 787 will play a key role in the
future plans of JAL and so many other industry-leading airline
customers."


The 787, said to be the fastest-selling commercial airliner in
history, is to be unveiled on July 8, with its first test flight
set for August and initial delivery on track for May 2008.


A number of carriers have been drawn to the new aircraft because
of its improved fuel efficiency.


With a capacity of 250 to 300 passengers, the 787 has a range of
up to 14,500 kilometers (7,800 nautical miles), and uses 20
percent less fuel than any other plane of its size, according to
Boeing.


"Surpassing the 500 order mark this early in the program -- more
than a year before the first airplane is delivered -- shows that
Boeing made the right choice in our point-to-point business
strategy, and that the 787 team made the right choices in
designing the airplane," said Mike Bair, 787 vice president and
general manager.


"This is an enormous compliment to the people around the world
who are working hard to ensure we keep the promises we've made to
our customers."

