

Efforts will be stepped up Wednesday to ascertain the level of
deaths and destruction and distribute aid in the western Solomon
Islands following this week's tsunami, officials said.


The premier of the Western Province, Alex Lokopio, said a fuel
shortage had hampered efforts to reach isolated areas but aid was
starting to reach the province following Monday's 8.0 magnitude
quake and tsunami.


"Today we will continue to organise the transport to get to the
various areas that have reported there are a number of people
missing and landslides," he said on Radio New Zealand.


"We had the patrol boat from Honiara come yesterday (Tuesday)
with supplies of tents, water and food and many more we expect to
come today."


Deputy police commissioner Peter Marshall said police aircraft
surveying the devastated area on Tuesday saw two bodies floating
off an island.


Police had so far confirmed 20 to 21 deaths, while the National
Disaster Council has said the toll stands at 24.


"However, we have extreme areas in the Western Province and very
remote villages and we really don't have an accurate handle in
terms of how many people have perished or been seriously
injured," Marshall warned.


Prime Minister Manasseh Sogavare said devastation in the Western
Province and south Choiseul regions was widespread following the
tsunami.


"In some places the whole villages were swept out," Sogavare
said.


"In Gizo area for example, the whole fishing village area was
completely wiped out. A school in South Choiseul, with over 300
students has been completely wiped out," he said.


He added a mobile hospital was needed to treat patients in the
Western Probince hub of Gizo, which was just 45 kilometres (28
miles) from the quake's epicentre.


The Gizo hospital was badly damaged in the quake and following
tsunami and patients are being treated at a makeshift facility on
a hill behind the town.


Sogavare said Australia and New Zealand had offered to provide a
mobile hospital.

