

The first Canadian indicted under a teetering terrorism law in
this country could be extradited to Britain to face trial, if
Ottawa fails to prosecute him, media said Tuesday.


Mohammed Momin Khawaja, 27, was the first person charged under
Canada's Anti- Terrorism Act after his arrest in March 2004. The
software developer was linked to a major anti-terror sweep in
Britain said to have averted a major bomb attack.


Canada's high court will announce Thursday whether it will hear
his last-ditch appeal to have the Canadian charges against him
dropped, after another tribunal struck down a portion of the act
that defines terrorism in October.


If the charges are quashed, British authorities would likely ask
the Canadian government to extradite Khawaja, the Ottawa Citizen
said Tuesday, citing unnamed security sources in London.


Both scenarios would be devastating to Canadian police and spy
agencies.


If the Supreme Court entertains Khawaja's bid, it would open the
door to possibly scuttling Canada's first post-9/11 terrorism
case before it even reached trial.


And allowing Britain to try the case would be a further
embarrassment for Canada and its fledgling anti-terrorism
efforts.


Canada's controversial anti-terrorism law was enacted three
months after the September 11, 2001 attacks that killed nearly
3,000 people in New York, Washington and Pennsylvania.


In October, a Canadian judge struck down a portion of the
legislation that defines terrorism, saying it violated Khawaja's
constitutional rights.


Even so, he remained in jail as the government tries to amend the
act.


Meanwhile, a London jury entered its third week of deliberations
Monday in the case of seven British Muslims accused of plotting
to detonate bombs around the city in 2004.


Khawaja is accused of making detonators for the bombs at his
Ottawa home, but was not charged in Britain.

