

British Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett Tuesday cautioned
against hope of a "swift resolution" to the stand-off with Iran
over 15 captive sailors, though Tehran hinted at moves to help
end the crisis.


"I would urge you to be cautious in assuming that we are likely
to see a swift resolution to this issue," Beckett told reporters.


She also played down the possibility of military action: "We are
not seeking confrontation. We are seeking to pursue this through
diplomatic channels."


Earlier Tuesday Prime Minister Tony Blair had said the stand-off
faced a "critical" 48 hours, warning that he may be forced to
take "tougher decisions" if the naval personnel are not freed.


Blair told Glasgow-based Real Radio that a diplomatic solution,
favoured by top Iranian national security official Ali Larijani,
"seems to offer some prospect but the most important thing is to
get these people back."


In Tehran, senior officials appeared to be taking a more
conciliatory tone over the 14 men and one woman who were seized
in the northern Gulf on March 23, accused of trespassing in
Iranian waters. Britain insists they were in Iraqi waters.


"London has changed its attitude for several days now and is
acting on the basis of negotiations," Vice President Parviz
Davoudi said in the southern city of Bushehr where he was opening
a new installation at Iran's first nuclear power station.


But he warned: "London must give guarantees and say that there
was a violation and there will be no other errors in the future.
I think that the problem is heading in this direction and God
willing will be resolved soon."


Blair cautioned that London was ready to keep the pressure on
Tehran if the eight sailors and seven marines are not released.


He said the situation could evolve through "peaceful, calm
negotiation," or London could otherwise take "increasingly
tougher decisions."


Blair did not repeat the comments later in the day, preferring to
say there were no new developments while adding that the next few
days would be "vital."


The Roman Catholic bishop of Britain's armed forces issued a plea
from "one religious leader to another", calling on Iran's supreme
leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei to help free the 15.


Khamanei "has the unique opportunity to gain the world's respect
for its (Iran's) Islamic laws and values," Bishop Tom Burns said
in a statement.


New still images were released on Tuesday of the detained sailors
and marines, showing them "relaxing" in tracksuits and playing
chess, a change from the previous string of video "confessions."


"It looks like these sailors are happy with spending time in good
conditions under the Iranians' Islamic kindness instead of
operating in the hard conditions of the Persian Gulf," the semi-
official Fars news agency said.


But the mother of Royal Navy Lieutenant Felix Carman, 26, one of
the captives, told of her distress at seeing him featured in one
of the video "confessions."


"It was a shock to see him on television but we were glad to see
he looked fit and well," she told the South Wales Evening Post
regional newspaper.


Iran's Larijani earlier said new talks had begun with Britain on
resolving the crisis.


"It is at the beginning of the path. If they continue on this
path then logically conditions can change and we can go towards
ending this issue," he told state television's central news
agency.


In Washington, US President George W. Bush insisted there should
be no "quid pro quos" with Iran, when asked if five Iranians held
since January by US forces in Iraq on suspicion of aiding
insurgents should be freed to favour a possible release of the
Britons.


But Iraq reiterated that it was negotiating with the US embassy
and the US military to secure the Iranians' release.


Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari told AFP: "We have been asking
actually the Americans formally to release them for quite some
time but still they have not been released."


Britain, which unlike its ally the United States has diplomatic
relations with Iran, has kept up bilateral contacts throughout
the crisis and ambassador Geoffrey Adams was to meet foreign
ministry officials later Tuesday.


The crisis has come at a perilous time for Iran's relations with
the West, with the United States refusing to rule out military
action over the Iranian nuclear programme and the United Nations
imposing tough new sanctions.


Blair said the ball was now in Iran's court.


"I'm not going to say any more at the moment -- it's for the
Iranian government now to come back with their response," he
said.

