

Bob Woolmer, whose death has plunged the World Cup into mourning,
was full of hope for the future of Pakistan cricket, a team
spokesman said on Sunday.


P.J. Mir, the Pakistan team media manager, told reporters that
despite the team's sensational defeat at the hands of Ireland
which condemned the 1992 champions to an early World Cup exit,
Woolmer was optimistic for the future.


"Bob was perfectly fine after the game. I had a very good chat
with him. He was thinking about doing a number of things for
Pakistan cricket. He had a lot of plans," said Mir.


"He wanted to go back and speak to the chairman of Pakistan Board
and give a new plan. He was very disappointed with Saturday's
result."


The 58-year-old Woolmer, a former England Test player and ex-
South Africa coach, died in hospital here after being discovered
unconscious in his hotel room.


"He was discovered lying in the hotel room by the cleaners,"
added Mir.


"The hospital attendants and the doctors came in. They looked at
him. He was lying on the floor.


"When I reached the room, he was lying on the floor with his
mouth wide open. Something happened but we don't know at this
moment. There will be a coroner's report and autopsy, then we
will be in a position to answer what's happened."


Mir insisted that Woolmer was enjoying being coach of Pakistan
where he had been in charge since 2004.


"Contrary to press reports that there were rifts, he was enjoying
being coach" said Mir.


"Let me assure you that Bob had a tremendous amount of sense of
humour. He was a fantastic person and team man. There were no
rifts, no misunderstandings. He was doing a fantastic job."


Skipper Inzamam-ul-Haq was said to be devastated by the events.


"I have spoken to Inzamam," added Mir.


"He was outside the room. He was totally shocked. He was actually
bewildered."

