

China must adopt a more sustainable model for development "as
soon as possible" or risk serious environmental and economic
fallout, state media on Monday quoted top officials as saying.


"The overall growth of the Chinese economy is inspiring but one
of the worries is that we have paid too dear an environmental and
resources price for such growth," the China Daily newspaper
quoted national development chief Ma Kai as telling an economic
forum in Beijing on Sunday.


China's voracious economy last year accounted for 15 percent of
the energy consumed in the world to produce just 5.5 percent of
global output, a situation that senior leaders said imperiled
long-term economic prospects, the newspaper reported.


"Serious environmental and resources constraints, irrational
industrial structure and development gaps between urban and rural
areas as well as between regions make it imperative to accelerate
change of the growth model in pursuit of sustainable
development," Vice-Premier Zeng Peiyan told the two-day forum.


Zeng promised more reforms of pricing mechanisms and tax
incentives aimed at encouraging energy conservation.


China's economy expanded by a sizzling 10.7 percent last year,
fueled by its massive export machine and investment growth.


For years, the ruling Communist Party pursued a growth-first
policy but has recently put addressing the negative effects of
that course -- horrendous pollution, profligate energy
consumption and a widening wealth gap -- at the top of its
political agenda.


"We are keenly aware that if the country's growth pattern is not
changed as soon as possible, though the Chinese economy can
maintain rapid growth for a period, it will not sail well and
sail far," said Ma, chairman of the National Development and
Reform Commission.

