

Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf led tributes to national
cricket coach Bob Woolmer Sunday after his "tragic" death in his
World Cup hotel room in Jamaica.


Musharraf and Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz both sent messages of
condolence to Woolmer's family, an official statement carried on
the state-run Associated Press of Pakistan said.


"President Pervez Musharraf and Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz have
expressed heartfelt condolences over the tragic death of Pakistan
Cricket Team Coach Bob Woolmer on Sunday," the statement said.


"In their separate messages, they said that Bob Woolmer had
promoted the cause and game of cricket in Pakistan with
dedication and single mindedness," it added.


"In their messages to his family they said Bob Woolmer's services
to the game will be long remembered by cricket fans."


Musharraf is the chief patron of the Pakistan Cricket Board
(PCB).


Legendary allrounder Imran Khan, who captained Pakistan to their
only World Cup triumph in 1992, told AFP he was "extremely
saddened over the untimely death."


"I am really shocked and I offer my deepest condolences to his
family. It's very, very unfortunate," he said.


Pakistan fast bowler Shoaib Akhtar said he was "in shock."


"It is a huge tragedy. We are not ready to believe this has
happened," Shoaib told private Aaj television.


"I am completely shattered, and what is going to happen I don't
know."


Akthar was pulled out of the tournament hours before Pakistan's
departure for the Caribbean on fitness grounds.


He had recently patched up relations with Woolmer after an
"altercation" during Pakistan's tour of South Africa, which the
paceman said was due to the coach believing he had feigned an
injury.


"He was a very dear man, he was a great leader and it's an
unbelievable tragedy," he said.


Paceman Mohammad Asif -- who was also left out of the squad
through injury and who was briefly banned alongside Akhtar after
testing positive for steroids last year -- expressed "shock and
despair."


"I can't believe it has happened," he told a private television
channel.


Rameez Raja, Pakistan's captain in the early 1990s and a former
chief executive of PCB, said Woolmer's death was a "terrible
blow."


"I always found him to be a positive individual. He operated with
a very positive mind. Pakistan's interests were always at his
heart," he told AFP by telephone from the West Indies, where he
is working as a commentator.


"Before the start of the match against Ireland I saw him
questioning ICC (International Cricket Council) match referee
Chris Broad as to why so much grass had been left on the pitch,"
he added.


"He was ready to fight for the Pakistani cause with passion. We
should thank him for his services. He came and trained the team
and brought unity in the ranks. He gave them direction.


"We are all extremely sad."


News of Woolmer's death came a day after this cricket-obsessed
nation was left stunned by Pakistan's exit from the World Cup at
the hands of minnows Ireland. Pakistan are to play Zimbabwe on
Wednesday.


Protesters in the central city of Multan, skipper Inzamam-ul-
Haq's home town, held a protest rally on Sunday and chanted
slogans against the Pakistan squad -- and Woolmer -- and demanded
that police arrest them.


Cricket fan Akhtar Hafeez, from the eastern city of Lahore, said:
"Bob Woolmer has paid with his life for what our players did in
the field.


"He was the one man who had dignity and he could not withstand
this shock."

