

England captain Michael Vaughan put his own side's worries aside
to pay tribute to "innovative" Pakistan coach Bob Woolmer, who
died on Sunday aged 58.


Former England batsman Woolmer was found unconscious on the floor
of his hotel room in Jamaica.


He was later taken to the island's Kingston University hospital
and pronounced dead just a day after Pakistan's shock defeat by
Ireland had seen them exit the World Cup.


Vaughan, who had seen England's preparations for a 51-run win
against Group C minnows Canada overshadowed by the omission of
Andrew Flintoff and the decision to strip him of the vice-
captaincy, said Woolmer's death put everything into perspective.


"On behalf of the England cricket team, we know there's been a
sad loss to the world of cricket with Bob Woolmer today," Vaughan
told reporters at Beausejour Cricket Ground.


"We know how much of an impact he's had on the world game, on the
English game and we know how greatly missed he's going to be.


"Today's win, the incidents over the last 48 hours, this really
hit home when we heard that Bob had passed away when we were on
the field today.


"All our condolences go out to Bob and his family. He'll be
greatly missed," the Yorkshire batsman added.


Vaughan went on to explain he'd only been speaking to Woolmer
just a few days before the death of the former Warwickshire,
South Africa and International Cricket Council development coach.


"It was only last Saturday I was in the swimming pool in Montego
Bay (in Jamaica) just talking with him. We were having a fruit
punch and just discussing the game.


"He was a great talker about the game. He had many ideas,
innovative ideas, and brought new things to the game," Vaughan
said.


"He's going to be greatly missed."

