

Fidel Castro will return to Cuba's presidency on April 28, eight
months after stepping aside temporarily following an operation,
Bolivia's leader Evo Morales was quoted in media reports Sunday.


According to Morales, Castro, 80, will resume official functions
on the occasion of the third anniversary of the Bolivarian
Alternative for the Americas, or ALBA, a regional cooperation
mechanism joining Venezuela, Cuba and Bolivia.


The date also marks the first anniversary of Bolivia's signing on
in Havana to the "Peoples' Trade Agreement" to implement the ALBA
principles.


The commemoration of the two events "will be the occasion to
attend the return of our brother Fidel to Cuba's presidency. The
presidents of six countries will participate," said Morales,
according to the newspaper reports.


Morales did not explain how he knew of Castro's planned return.
Last October the Bolivian president declared that Castro, who
ceded power to his brother Raul last July 31 after he underwent
intestinal surgery, would be back in his job in "two or three
weeks."


Today Castro remains mostly out of sight, and earlier this week
Cuban National Assembly leader Ricardo Alarcon told journalists
that Castro would be in shape to retake the reins of power early
2008.


"I am certain he will be in perfect condition to continue
assuming this responsibility,"  Alarcon said at a meeting of
parliament deputies to prepare for March elections of those who
will then decide Cuba's leader.


On Friday Cuba's Foreign Minister Felipe Perez Roque said during
a visit to Portugal that Castro has gained weight and is
exercising daily.


Castro "is recuperating progressively and his recovery is
constant," Roque told reporters, the Lusa news agency reported.

