

Japanese share prices rose 0.79 percent in morning trade Monday
as investors remained optimistic about the local economic
outlook, shrugging off modest losses on Wall Street last week,
dealers said.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's benchmark Nikkei-225 index of leading
shares gained 131.71 points to 16,875.86 by the lunch break.


The TOPIX index of all issues on the Tokyo Stock Exchange's first
section added 6.30 points or 0.38 percent to 1,683.36.


Gainers outnumbered decliners 831 to 739, with 156 stocks flat.


Volume was 883 million shares, down from 1.37 billion on Friday
morning.


"Share prices have reached reasonable levels and individual
investors were the main players in today's gains," said
Mitsushige Akino, chief fund manager at Ichiyoshi Management.


Many of the bigger investors, however, remained cautious as they
waited for the outcomes of meetings this week of the Bank of
Japan's monetary policy board and the US Federal Open Market
Committee (FOMC), dealers said.


Neither central bank is expected to move again yet but investors
are looking for clues on the outlook for any future interest rate
changes.


"The market is not likely to be affected by the Bank of Japan
this week as it is expected to keep its interest rates unchanged
and to repeat roughly what it said last month," Akino said.


Last month, the Japanese central bank raised its overnight call
rate target to 0.50 percent from 0.25 percent and said it would
continue to raise interest rates only "gradually" in light of
economic developments.


Drug makers were higher. Takeda Pharmaceutical rose 90 yen or 1.2
percent to 7,650, Tanabe Seiyaku was up 20 yen or 1.2 percent at
1,625 and Daiichi Sankyo gained 60 yen or 1.7 percent at 3,590.


Among auto makers, Nissan Motor climbed 17 yen or 1.3 percent to
1,302, Toyota Motor advanced 40 yen or 0.5 percent to 7,650 and
Honda Motor was up 30 yen or 0.7 percent.


Banks were lower. Mizuho Financial Group fell 2,000 yen or 0.3
percent to 751,000, Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group declined
40,000 yen or 3.0 percent to 1.27 million and Resona Holdings was
down 3,000 yen or 0.98 percent at 304,000.

