

Japan and Celtic playmaker Shunsuke Nakamura has warned his
teammates against complacency as they start the countdown to
defending their Asian Cup title.


Japan will be gunning for an unprecedented third Asian Cup crown
in the showpiece event in July, but Nakamura knows they must be
in top form to avoid any upsets.


"Just like the last two editions, it won't be easy to win the
Asian Cup," Nakamura, who has made a name with his goalscoring
exploits in Scotland, told the Asian Football Confederation
website.


"Japan will need to spare no efforts if we are to win the title
for the third consecutive time."


Nakamura figured prominently in Japan's two previous title runs
in 2000 in Lebanon and 2004 in China, and warned that West Asian
teams, in particular, were rapidly improving.


Japan are in Group B with Qatar, United Arab Emirates and
Vietnam.


"I played under Philippe Troussier in Lebanon on the left side of
midfield," he said. "Four years later I had a different
impression of the teams as I could see that West Asian teams like
Oman had improved vastly.


"In fact, the standards of some of emerging West Asian teams were
higher than those of the traditional powerhouses like Korea,
Iran, Saudi Arabia and China.


"It was in the last edition that the quality of football really
improved."


Nakamura added that Asian players had all the attributes to
succeed in Europe, and dismissed suggestions that the generally
small size of Asians was an inhibiting factor when playing
against the physically superior Europeans.


"Yes, Asian players, especially those from East Asia, are
physically smaller (than Europeans) but we can compensate for it
with out agility," he said.


"I feel that European clubs are looking at players from Asia and
Africa. So if you are good player, you have a chance to play in
Europe."

