

Pakistan cricket coach Bob Woolmer died in hospital here on
Sunday after being found unconscious on the floor of his World
Cup hotel room, an official confirmed.


Woolmer was 58 years old.


P.J. Mir, Pakistan's media manager, told tv channel ARYONE from
the West Indies: "Bob Woolmer has passed away. I am just speaking
from the hospital and all the team management is also at the
hospital.


"Doctors have pronounced Bob Woolmer dead. Bob Woolmer has passed
away and it is very shocking news to all of the team and the team
mamangement.


"Bob's family and wife were informed by the team management about
Bob's condition when he was brought to hospital."


Pakistan were knocked out of the World Cup on Saturday after a
shock three- wicket defeat to Ireland.


Sky Sports had earlier reported that Woolmer was found at 1045
local time (1545GMT) on the floor of his hotel room unconscious
and with signs of vomiting.


An ambulance took him to the Kingston University Hospital.


Woolmer, who took charge of the Pakistan team in 2004, was seen
late on Saturday night, but officials raised the alarm after not
seeing him early on Sunday.


When they went to his hotel room, they saw he was unconscious.


Pakistan team manager Talat Ali, their South African based
trainer Murray Stevenson and assistant manager Asad Mustafa went
with Woolmer to the hospital where he was given medical
attention.


Woolmer was last seen in public when he addressed the post-match
media conference after his team's defeat to Ireland at Sabina
Park.


He talked of the stresses of the coaching job.


"Doing it internationally, it takes a toll on you - the endless
travelling and the non-stop living out of hotels."


In his playing career, Woolmer appeared for Kent in the English
county championship and played 19 Tests for England.


He has also coached the South African national team.


Pakistan face Zimbabwe on Wednesday in their final World Cup
group match.

