

Scholars from Japan and China on Monday opened new talks to draft
a joint study of their history, a frequent source of friction
between the Asian powers, officials said.


The talks come amid a regional uproar after Japanese Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe this month denied that Japan coerced
thousands of Asian women into brothels during World War II.


The joint study group, gathering 10 historians from each country,
will meet behind closed doors for two days and pay a courtesy
call on Japanese Foreign Minister Taro Aso, a foreign ministry
statement said.


The meeting follows the first talks held in December in Beijing.
The latest meeting aims to set up the modalities for the study,
the statement said.


The joint history review was agreed to by Abe when he paid a
fence-mending visit to China in September. The two countries have
set a target date of publication of their joint study in 2008.


The review covers thousands of years of history, including
periods of goodwill between the two civilisations.


But the most bitterly disputed points involve Japan's 1931-1945
occupation of China, which remains a major cause of anger six
decades afterwards.


Beijing maintains 35 million Chinese were either killed or
injured, most of them civilians, due to Japan's aggression, but
the number is disputed by many Japanese historians.


China has long charged that Japan has failed to atone for its
wartime conduct, while Japan accuses China of ignoring the post-
war period including Tokyo's economic support to Beijing in its
history textbooks.


Relations were badly strained under Abe's predecessor, Junichiro
Koizumi, due to his annual visits to a shrine venerating Japanese
war dead and war criminals alike.

