

Rafael Nadal overpowered Novak Djokovic 6-2, 7-5 to win the ATP
Pacific Life Open for his first title since capturing the French
Open.


The left-handed Spaniard, seeded two, did it without dropping a
set in the 5.3 million dollar hardcourt tournament which featured
the best players in the world, including world number one Roger
Federer who was knocked out in the second round.


The world's second ranked player came out with more spark on
Sunday winning nine consecutive points to open the match. He also
won 16 of the first 18 points as Djokovic didn't post his first
point until the third game.


In the first set, Djokovic won only three points off Nadal's
serve.


Nadal broke Djokovic twice in the first set and once more in the
second to wrap up the win in one hour, 33 minutes.


He clinched it on the third match point when Djokovic's backhand
sailed long. Nadal, who collected 500,000 dollars in prize money,
fell onto his back and raised his arms in victory in front of the
crowd of 12,000 at the Indian Wells Tennis Garden.


This was Nadal's first final since last year's Wimbledon and he
reached it in stunning fashion by crushing third seeded American
Andy Roddick in Saturday's semi-finals.


The win capped an impressive week for Nadal and ended a nine
month title drought -- the longest since going 24 tournaments
after turning pro before winning his first crown.


Djokovic never recovered from his poor start but he earned
250,000 dollars for making it to the final.


In their only previous meeting at the French Open, Nadal led 6-4,
6-4 when the Serb quit with a back injury.


Nadal is the first Spaniard to win this event since Alex Corretja
in 2000.

