

FC Moscow maintained the only 100 percent record and took over
top spot in the Russian Premier League following this weekend's
round of matches.


FC Moscow beat visitors Tomsk 2-0 thanks to a brace from forward
Roman Adamov to make it six points out of six in their two
matches.


They are followed by a group of six clubs on four points
including reigning champions CSKA Moscow and nine-time champions
Spartak Moscow.


Playing Perm at home, Spartak dominated from the start but failed
to create any serious threat before the break as the visitors
defended in numbers, stifling Spartak's attacks before they could
reach the danger area.


After the restart Spartak, spurred by the home crowd, poured
forward in attack seeking the opening goal but still to no avail
as their lack of killer instinct and creativity allowed Perm to
keep them at bay.


Meanwhile, defending champions CSKA also failed to add three
points to their balance as they were held to a 1-1 draw by city
rivals Dynamo.


In a lively opening both teams had several chances to open the
scoring, however, a lack of precision in front of goal kept the
scores blank.


After the interval the reigning champions picked up steam,
pinning Dynamo back and took the lead in the 61st minute.


Dynamo 'keeper Zidrunas Karcemarskas managed to deflect CSKA's
Brazilian midfielder Dudu's initial 20-metre shot but another
Brazilian Vagner Love sent the rebound into the net from close
range.


In the 77th minute Dynamo's Argentinian defender Leandro
Fernandez seemingly scuppered his side's chances of saving the
day as he was sent off for a tackle from behind.


However, striker Ruslan Pimenov levelled with four minutes to go,
firing home from six yards despite the presence of of CSKA
skipper Sergei Ignashevich.

