

Australia and India's World Cup teams admitted they were
shattered by the news that Pakistan coach Bob Woolmer had died.


Woolmer, 58, died in Jamaica after being found unconscious in his
hotel room the day after Pakistan had been sensationally knocked
out of the World Cup by Ireland.


"For me personally and as a player of this team, we pass on our
condolences to the Woolmer family and everyone he has known over
the years," said Australia captain Ricky Ponting who heard the
news while his team was playing the Netherlands.


"One of our 12th men bringing drinks out told us about it.
Everyone just stood back in shock for quite a while. When I was
out in the field I was thinking about lots of different things
for probably the last 10 or 12 overs of the game.


"Everybody was immediately saddened by what we heard. We have
played a game of cricket, but there are a lot of bigger things
happening around the world.


"There always is. We sometimes get a bit carried away with what
we do in sport. But when something like this happens it certainly
rams home that there are other things happening around you all
the time."


India issued a team statement from their base in Trinidad.


"Rahul Dravid, Greg Chappell and all members of the Indian
cricket team are deeply shocked and saddened by the sudden death
of the Pakistan team coach Bob Woolmer," said the statement.


"Bob has had a distinguished career in cricket as a player for
England and a national coach for South Africa and Pakistan. He
has left an indelible mark on the game that he loved and lived
for.


"We extend our sincere condolences to Bob's family, friends and
all members of the Pakistan cricket team at this sad time."

