

Suspected Islamic separatists shot dead three Buddhists Monday in
Thailand's Muslim-majority south, police said, as the nation's
junta chief visited the region amid soaring sectarian tensions.


The three women, who all worked for a royally-sponsored farm
project, were killed in an early morning drive-by shooting in
Pattani, one of three insurgency-plagued provinces bordering
Malaysia.


"Six suspected insurgents came on three motorcycles before
opening fire on a pick-up carrying more than 10 people, including
children, to work at the farm project," police said.


Three other women were injured in the attack, police said.


The killings came as junta leader Sonthi Boonyaratglin began a
one-day visit to the region to meet with security officials
following a series of bloody attacks that have shocked the
nation.


Sonthi, the first Muslim to head the army in this mainly Buddhist
nation, arrived early Monday in Yala, the scene of the most
gruesome of the recent violence, including a massacre of eight
Buddhist civilians and a bombing at a mosque on Wednesday.


Military officers have arrested 28 people in connection with the
massacre.


Tensions were raised even further over the weekend, when two
Muslim boys were killed in an attack on an Islamic boarding
school in neighbouring Songkhla province.


The killings sparked a protest by 400 people living near the
school, who blamed the military for the attack and blocked a road
to prevent police from investigating the scene.


At least 2,000 people have been killed in separatist violence
that has gripped the provinces of Yala, Narathiwat and Pattani
since January 2004, with the bloodshed occasionally seeping into
neighbouring Songkhla.


The military has imposed a curfew on parts of the region, where
violence has surged despite a raft of peace-building measures
proposed by Thailand's military-backed government.


A string of coordinated bomb blasts across the southernmost
region last month killed nine and injured 44, while killings have
also become more gruesome, with two beheadings in March.

