

Two of the 48 orangutans that were returned to Indonesia in
November after a protracted rescue operation in Thailand have
given birth, a wildlife activist said Monday.


"Two of the orangutans have given birth, both to male babies,"
said Willie Smits of the Nyaru Menteng Orangutan Reintroduction
Center in Central Kalimantan.


Smits told AFP that one of the orangutans delivered her baby in
January and the second on March 5 at the animal rehabilitation
centre in Kalimantan on the Indonesian part of Borneo island.


He said the pregnancies were only discovered after they had been
repatriated in November.


"The mothers and the baby are healthy," he said, adding that many
of the other apes have been discovered to suffer from various
diseases such as tuberculosis and hepatitis.


"The tests were not done properly before they were allowed to
leave Thailand," he said.


The primates had been smuggled into Thailand and were seized two
years ago at a Bangkok zoo that was found to have acquired them
illegally. An investigation was carried out to determine whether
they were from Malaysia or Indonesia.


Their eventual return to Borneo was delayed by September's
military coup in Thailand. An Indonesian air force plane flew the
animals in November to the centre.


Orangutans, the only great ape to be found outside of Africa, are
native to the Indonesian islands of Sumatra and Borneo.


About 62,000 orangutans are estimated to live in Indonesia, 7,500
of them in Sumatra, Forestry Minister Malam Sambat Kaban has
said.


But experts said populations are fast declining due to
deforestation and illegal animal trafficking.


Widespread annual fires towards the end of the dry season, as
farmers and plantation owners clear land for new crops, is also
believed to claim the lives of hundreds of orangutans.

