

Roma full-back Max Tonetto and Sampdoria midfielder Fabio
Quagliarella were called up for the first time when Roberto
Donadoni named his 25-man Italy squad on Sunday for the world
champions' crucial Euro 2008 Group B qualifier against Scotland
in Bari on March 28.


Tonetto comes into the international set-up late in his career
having turned 32 last November. He has established himself as a
Roma regular and has helped them reach the quarter-finals of the
Champions League.


"It doesn't matter what age you are, it's always an honour to be
called up for the national team," said Tonetto who joined Roma
from Sampdoria last summer.


"It's reward for years of work, above all for my performances
this season with Roma with whom I've been able to fully express
my qualities."


Quagliarella, 23, has been in superb form for his club this
season, scoring an impressive 11 goals from midfield.


AC Milan defender Daniele Bonera, who can play on the right or in
the centre, is recalled in the absence of Alessandro Nesta and
Fabio Grosso who are both injured.


There is also no place for Roma star Francesco Totti who recently
announced he will come back to the international fold, but only
from September.


The squad will get together at their Coverciano base in Florence
on Monday.


Scotland play Georgia next Saturday before taking on the
Italians, who have no game this weekend.


France and Scotland are currently tied for top spot in Group B on
nine points, followed by Italy on seven points.


Italy squad


Goalkeepers: Gianluigi Buffon (Juventus), Cristian Abbiati
(Torino), Marco Amelia (Livorno)


Defenders: Andrea Barzagli (Palermo), Daniele Bonera (AC Milan),
Massimo Oddo (AC Milan), Fabio Cannavaro (Real Madrid/ESP), Marco
Materazzi (Inter Milan), Manuel Pasqual (Fiorentina), Max Tonetto
(Roma), Gianluca Zambrotta (Barcelona/ESP)


Midfielders: Massimo Ambrosini (AC Milan), Rino Gattuso (AC
Milan), Andrea Pirlo (AC Milan), Mauro Camoranesi (Juventus),
Daniele De Rossi (Roma), Simone Perrotta (Roma), Stefano Mauri
(Lazio), Franco Semioli (Chievo), Fabio Quagliarella (Sampdoria)


Forwards: Alberto Gilardino (AC Milan), Alessandro Del Piero
(Juventus), Antonio Di Natale (Udinese), Luca Toni (Fiorentina),
Tommaso Rocchi (Lazio)

