

Scientists said Monday further massive mudflows from New
Zealand's largest volcano were not expected, one day after it
spewed some one million cubic metres of debris down its sides.


Scientists visited Monday the crater lake of Mt Ruapehu where a
dam of volcanic ash and debris collapsed, sending a four-metre
(13-foot) high wall of water, ash, rocks and trees cascading into
the countryside below.


No one was reported hurt and there was little damage from
Sunday's deluge, known as a lahar.


Government scientists reported Monday that the lake was stable
after the soft dam covering the rim of the crater lake had been
swept away.


The unstable dam had been created by eruptions of the 2,797-metre
Mt Ruapehu in 1995 and 1996 and an emergency plan had been in
place for years to deal with the expected lahar.


The Department of Conservation said no further lahars were
expected following Monday's examination of the crater lake.


DOC senior conservation officer Dave Wakelin said staff had been
up to the crater and the dam of loosely compacted ash and
volcanic rock had completely disappeared.


"It's great news from our point of view,' he said.


"Now we have a crater lake back to what it was pre-1995. It's
flowing down its natural outlet, rather than building up behind
the dam."


The lahar had long been expected and an early warning system
allowed authorities to close roads and a railway line in the path
of the lahar.


The lack of casualties and damage was in contrast to a similar
lahar on Christmas Eve 1953, which killed 151 train passengers
when a rail bridge was swept away.


Sunday's lahar followed the path of the Whangaehu river, taking
huge boulders and trees with it in a three to four-metre high
wave.


The deluge lasted about three hours and the Department of
Conservation said worse damage may have been avoided because the
dam collapsed in stages.

