

Ireland and Bangladesh have inspired the minnows with their
surprise victories in the World Cup, says Bermuda coach Gus
Logie.


Bangladesh opened their Cup campaign with a five-wicket win over
former champions India here on Saturday, while Ireland stunned
1992 winners Pakistan by three wickets in Jamaica.


"These are great results for all the minnows. It should give all
the players confidence going into their next games. I'm looking
forward to my boys being inspired by the performances of both
Bangladesh and Ireland," said Logie.


Debutants Bermuda take on India in their second Group B match
here on Monday, having lost to Sri Lanka by 243 runs in their
opening game. The top two sides will advance to the next Super
Eight stage.


Logie was all praise for Bangladesh, saying they lifted their
performance against a higher-ranked side and proved there was a
place in the World Cup for smaller teams.


"It (India v Bangladesh) was a fascinating game of cricket as
Bangladesh showed what can be achieved with commitment and hard
work. Everybody expects a top team to knock out a small team," he
said.


"You now have to give credit to minnows. It shows the game is
spreading. We need to understand that there are good players in
associated teams. They need to be supported.


"The Bangladesh win is going to be an inspiration and I think my
players will be motivated."


The Bermuda coach believed that the small teams could improve if
given an opportunity to compete against big sides for long time.


"The reason why Bangladesh are doing so well is because they have
got an opportunity to play against top sides. They have been
playing for a number of years," said Logie, a former West Indies
cricketer.


"They are a young squad. If they continue to improve and get the
exposure, they could be a force in near future."

