

A court in Djibouti on Sunday convicted the head of the east
African country's human rights league, Jean-Paul Noel Abdi, of
defamation and sentenced him to six months in prison.


The criminal court also ordered Abdi to pay a fine of 480 euros
(360 dollars) after finding him guilty of falsely accusing a
presidential guard soldier of rape, according to a judicial
source who asked not to be named.


Abdi, who chairs the Djibouti League of Human Rights and is the
Djibouti representative of Amnesty International, told AFP that
the verdict "incontestably shows that the state of human rights
in Djibouti is more than worrying."


He has 10 days to lodge an appeal, but was led off Sunday to the
Djibouti city prison, where he had been held after his arrest on
March 9, before being freed on bail last weekend.


Abdi allegedly accused the member of President Ismail Omar
Guelleh's personal guard of raping a young girl in the north of
the African nation "without checking his sources or consulting
those whose reputations were involved."


When police arrested Abdi at his home in Djibouti, the capital of
the small but strategically important country located at the
meeting point of the Red Sea and the Gulf of Aden, no reasons
were given.


The International Federation of Human Rights, to which the
Djibouti league is affiliated, said after Abdi's arrest that he
was questioned by police over his public stance regarding a
common grave discovered a month earlier at Day in the north of
the country.


This grave "contained the remains of seven civilians allegedly
executed on January 1, 1994, by the security forces," Florence
Geel, the Africa bureau programme coordinator for the Paris-based
FIDH, told AFP.

