

Australian terror suspect David Hicks was forcibly sedated at
Guantanamo Bay last month just before he was told of a new charge
against him, his US military defence lawyer said Monday.


Major Michael Mori said his client was left frightened and
confused after taking a drug offered to him by a US official to
counteract a stomach complaint.


"David took it and then it started to basically sedate him," Mori
told Australia's ABC radio.


"The next thing he knew, he was being taken out of his cell and
somebody was talking to him about charges and he really couldn't
comprehend what was going on. And it lasted for almost 24 hours."


A spokesman for the Pentagon told the ABC that US officials were
examining the allegations, but said that Hicks "has been treated
humanely while in US custody".


Attorney-General Philip Ruddock said if there was anything
sinister in the incident, it would be investigated.


"But it may be something that is quite innocent, in which case,
one ought to allow the inquiries to be pursued," Ruddock said.


Hicks, 31, has been held in US military custody for more than
five years without trial, with the last year spent in virtual
solitary confinement in a small cell.


He was last month charged with providing material support for
terrorism and is due to appear at a Guantanamo Bay hearing next
week.


Public support back home for Hicks, who was captured in late 2001
in Afghanistan where he was allegedly fighting alongside Taliban
forces, has grown because of the length of time he has been held
without trial.


Prime Minister John Howard, who unlike his British counterpart
Tony Blair has steadfastly refused to seek the release of his
nationals from US custody, has said that it has taken too long
for Hicks to be tried.

