

A Philippine businessman accused of helping former president
Joseph Estrada illegally build an 80-million-dollar fortune was
jailed on Monday, court officials said.


The Sandiganbayan, a special anti-corruption court, ordered
Charlie Ang imprisoned for at least two and up to six years and
two months after he pleaded guilty to indirect bribery, they
said.


Extradited by the United States in November, Ang is one of four
co-defendants in a corruption case targeting Estrada.


As part of a plea-bargain, Ang was also required to return about
half a million dollars to the government, which was his share of
tobacco excise taxes that he helped Estrada steal from the
national treasury.


Ang was also accused of helping deliver bundles of cash,
withdrawn by an accomplice from a bank account, to the home of
Estrada while he was president.


The former president is accused of amassing a personal fortune of
up to 80 million dollars during his 30-months in office. He was
ousted by a popular revolt in January 2001.


Estrada is currently under house arrest at his farm just outside
Manila.


Ang fled to the United States after Estrada's downfall but was
handed over by Washington last year at Manila's request.


Estrada has maintained he was illegally ousted in a conspiracy by
a powerful elite led by the Roman Catholic church, businessmen
and the woman who replaced him, Gloria Arroyo, who was his vice-
president.


The former movie actor turned politician still retains a huge
following among the masses and is the de facto leader of the
fragmented political opposition.

