

Vijay Singh matched the career record for American titles by non-
US players here Saturday, firing a final-round three-under par 67
to win the PGA Arnold Palmer Invitational.


Singh finished 72 holes at the 5.5 million-dollar event on eight-
under par 272 to defeat US veteran Rocco Mediate by two strokes
for his first victory in 15 tries at Bay Hill, a frustration that
included three runner-up showings.


Singh's victory was the 31st of his US PGA career, equaling the
44-year-old Fijian with 1930s English star Harry Cooper for the
most by any non-American golfer. His first win came at 30 and he
has won a record 19 since turning 40.


"It means a lot. This was my first tournament in America and I
love this place," Singh said. "I hate the 18th hole. it cost me
two tournaments in the past. But I love this place. I always
wanted to win this one and now I have."


It was the second title of the year for Singh, who won the
season-opening Mercedes Championship.


Singh birdied the second hole with a chip-in but gave the stroke
back on the next hole before rounding into form with back-to-back
birdies at five and six and to close the front side.


He stumbled again at the 11th and send his second shot at the
par-5 12th into the trees. But Singh blasted his approach through
limbs and branches and then curled in a stunning birdie putt in
response to reclaim a two-stroke lead.


Singh birdied the 15th, his approach backing up to a halt inches
from the cup, but made bogeys at 16 and 17, the latter from six
feet, to trim his lead to only two strokes as he walked to the
18th tee.


Singh went over the green on his approach, chipped 12 feet past
the cup and sank the testy par putt to finally claim victory at
Bay Hill.


Mediate, who fell back after a six-over 76 in the third round,
closed with a 67 but his charge was too little and too late.


"To come out and do this was very cool," Mediate said.


Vaughn Taylor, the American who led by two strokes after 54
holes, fired a final-round 73 to take third on 275, one stroke
ahead of compatriot Ben Curtis.


Spain's Sergio Garcia found greenside rocks near the water at the
18th hole on his way to a double bogey that dropped him to a
final-round 71 and a share of fifth on 277 with Americans John
Rollins and Tom Lehman.


World number one Tiger Woods suffered one of the more horrendous
finishes of his career, finding the water at 17 and 18 on his way
to a closing 76 and a share of 22nd on 283.


Woods, who began the day five strokes back and opened with two
birdies, made a bogey at 16, double-bogeys at 11 and 17 and a
triple bogey at 18.

