

Japan, a top financial supporter of the Middle East peace
process, on Monday welcomed the formation of the new Palestinian
unity government but said it had not yet decided whether to work
with it.


Israel has urged a continued boycott of the government, which
includes ministers from Hamas, the Islamic militant movement that
claimed responsibility for scores of suicide attacks in the
Jewish state before a 2004 truce.


Japan hopes that "the formation of the new government will lead
to resumption of the Middle East peace process and cessation of
the violence," according to a statement from the foreign
ministry.


But a ministry official said Tokyo had not yet determined whether
to deal with the new cabinet led by prime minister Ismail Haniya,
himself a member of Hamas.


"At this moment, we have not decided whether we will hold talks
with the new government," said Mamoru Kanno of the ministry's
Middle East division.


"We will first closely watch the political situation and the
peace process and then determine what kind of steps to take," he
told AFP.


"But Japan will continue to give necessary support in all aspects
of the peace process," he said.


Japan, one of the Palestinian Authority's key financial backers
since the 1993 Oslo accords, last week hosted two days of talks
in Tokyo with Israeli, Palestinian and Jordanian negotiators.


The United States, a close ally of both Israel and Japan, said
Sunday it would deal with the new Palestinian government only if
it forgoes violence and recognises Israel.


Outlining his programme Saturday, Haniya made overtures to Israel
but said the Palestinians had a right to all forms of
"resistance."


Washington has said it will maintain ties with Palestinian
president Mahmud Abbas, of the rival Fatah faction.


France, meanwhile, has invited the Palestinian foreign minister
to Paris, while Russia has signalled its readiness to work with
the new coalition.

