

Midfielders Jurica Vranjes and Diego helped second-placed Werder
Bremen close the gap behind Bundesliga leader's Schalke 04 with a
2-0 win over Mainz 05 on Sunday.


After Schalke poached a 1-0 win against the run of play at home
to Stuttgart to open up a six-point gap on Saturday, Bremen kept
on the pressure with a convincing win over Mainz at the
Weserstadion.


Having missed the last two weeks with a back-injury, Bremen
welcomed back their top-scorer and German international Miroslav
Klose, but it was the midfielders behind him who did the damage
after a scoreless first-half.


Centre half Vranjes gave Bremen the lead on the hour mark when he
took a slick pass on the edge of the area and smashed his shot
past Mainz's diving goalkeeper Dimo Wache.


Mainz's Egyptian striker Mohamed Zidan, who has been a revelation
since his Christmas switch from Bremen, managed to shake off the
effects of an upset stomach to take on his former team-mates, but
had precious few opportunites.


And Bremen made sure of the points when Brazilian international
Diego broke clear of the defence after a quick counter-attack and
chipped into an empty net in injury time as Mainz were exposed
for chasing an equalising goal.


In the day's other game, bottom-side Borussia Moenchengladbach
travelled to sixth-placed Bayer Leverkusen's BayArena and looked
to have picked up a valuable point until dealt a cruel blow in
injury time.


In the game's dying stages and the match cruising towards a 0-0
draw, Bayer's Ukrainian striker Andrey Voronin saw his powerful
shot deflected off a defender and past 'Gladback's keeper Kasey
Keller to seal the 1-0 win.

