

South Korea said Monday free trade talks with Washington could
collapse if US negotiators stick to demands for the opening of
the country's rice market.


"If the United States pushes strongly for the opening of our rice
market, the future of the free trade agreement (FTA) will not be
guaranteed," Park Hong-Soo told reporters.


The warning came as both sides prepared for the final stretch of
tough negotiations following their eighth and final round of
formal talks in Seoul a week ago.


US and South Korean negotiators start informal talks Monday
simultaneously in Seoul and Washington to narrow differences over
automobiles, textiles, pharmaceuticals, anti-dumping remedies and
farm goods such as rice.


Seoul insists it will maintain trade barriers on rice and other
sensitive items to protect its way of life while Washington says
there should be no exceptions in an accord.


The meeting in Seoul will focus on how to remove trade barriers
on agricultural products.


"There has been a wide gap over rice and beef. I don't think both
sides can narrow differences completely during the two-day
meeting here," Park said.


Both sides hope to strike a deal by the end of this month despite
hostility from farmers and other workers who fear for the loss of
their jobs if US goods, especially agricultural produce, gain
greater access.


The deal, if agreed, would be the biggest since the 1993 North
American Free Trade Agreement. US-South Korean bilateral trade
reached 74 billion dollars in 2006.


US negotiators must submit any FTA deal to Congress by April 2
for a 90-day review before President George W. Bush's "fast-
track" trade promotion authority expires on July 1.

