

France does not need a Margaret Thatcher-like figure to help
promote reform, and instead requires someone to unite people,
centrist French presidential candidate Francois Bayrou said in an
interview published Monday.


Asked by The Daily Telegraph if France needed its own Iron Lady,
Bayrou said: "I think that France has its own project for society
and that this project cannot be lifted from those of another
(country)."


"In France we should not try and copy any other political model
whatsoever. We have our own project and our own values.


"For example, France is a country that loves unity and needs to
live in unity -- British society needs this a bit less. These are
differences."


Bayrou is projected to win the presidency if he can make it
through to the decisive second round of the vote, according to a
TNS-Sofres poll released Sunday.


In the two-candidate run-off set for May 6, Bayrou would win by
54 percent to 46 percent against Nicolas Sarkozy of the ruling
centre-right party, and by 60 percent to 40 percent against the
Socialist candidate Segolene Royal, according to the survey for
RTL radio and Le Figaro newspaper.


He remains in third place, however, in most polls, including the
TNS-Sofres survey.


Bayrou rejected suggestions that his calls for a type of national
unity government bringing together left and right-wing political
parties would lead to paralysis, telling the paper: "A new
political method and landscape will emerge and a new way to work
together as opposed to one against another."


"I will govern by bringing together new, competent people
representing the entire country and believe me, there will be
lots willing to take up the call."


He also pledged to change the style of the presidency, saying
that "every president in the last 25 years behaved as a
republican monarch", and symbolically pledged to reduce the
expenditure at the presidential palace by 20 percent in his first
year in office.

