

German head coach Orjan Madsen has called for more drug testing
in a bid to stamp out lingering suspicion surrounding his
country's record-breaking women.


The previously-unheralded German women, led by Britta Steffen,
raised eyebrows last year when they broke three world records at
the European championships in Budapest.


Madsen said the scepticism was understandable given the history
of systemic doping in East German sporting teams during the 1970s
and 1980s.


"After the European championships I received a lot of emails from
American coaches. They were engaged and suspicious and said 'why
can those swimmers swim that fast and we don't even know them?',"
Madsen told a press conference.


"I understand the suspicion because we probably look at good
results from other countries the same way.


"The only way we can prove we are doing things legally is that we
request to be tested more often.


"We are not happy with the amount of tests that we have had
carried out."


He said the German Swimming Federation (DSV) had started a
program in which athletes' blood is frozen, so it can be
analysed.


German athletes are also taking part in a research program
designed to improve the detection of blood doping.


"We have nothing to hide, we can be quite open about it," he said
here as his team prepares for the World Swimming Championships.


"To tell you the truth, I would challenge you to show me one
country that takes part in these world championships that does
more in anti-doping and tell me what they did and I will do the
same thing."


He put the improved performances down to initiatives such as the
national team spending 170 days a year together and 12 weeks a
year training at altitude.


Madsen added that he was confident his women could improve on
their stunning performances last year at Rod Laver Arena,
predicting the winner of the women's 4x100m and 4x200m relays
would have to break the world record.

