

The dollar steadied on Monday as players took to the sidelines
ahead of this week's key US economic indicators, and mulled the
outcome of the first round presidential vote in France, dealers
said.


They said the euro was largely unaffected by the first round vote
which put rightwinger Nicolas Sarkozy in pole position heading
into a run-off next month against socialist candidate Segolene
Royal.


"The first round does not appear to have had any impact on
euro/dollar, with the currency focussing on other factors," said
Calyon analyst Stuart Bennett.


However, he added: "One factor that could worry the market is the
criticism levelled at the ECB (European Central Bank) by both
Sarkozy and Royal.


"Both have suggested that the central bank should focus on jobs
and growth as well as inflation when setting policy."


In early trading on Monday, the euro eased to 1.3564 dollars,
from 1.3590 dollars in New York late on Friday. The dollar stood
at 118.38 yen, compared with 118.66 previously.


The European single currency came within a whisker of an all-time
record last week as investors were lured by the increased chances
of higher eurozone interest rates, analysts said.


Some analysts said the euro remained set to beat its historic
record of 1.3666 dollars, which was set on December 30, 2004,
after reaching as high as 1.3637 dollars last week.


"On the basis that (we) expect continued weak economic data out
of the US during the course of the week, the underlying dollar
downtrend is likely to remain intact," said Commerzbank analyst
Gavin Friend.


"A test of the December 2004 high ... is only a matter of time."


Dealers expect this week's economic data to set the tone for the
near-term.


In the United States, March new homes sales and durable goods
orders data are due out on Wednesday, while the initial estimate
of gross domestic product (GDP) growth for the first quarter to
March will be released on Friday.


Early on Monday, the euro changed hands at 1.3564 dollars,
against 1.3590 dollars late Friday, 160.54 yen (161.27), 0.6786
pounds (0.6785) and 1.6403 Swiss francs (1.6420).


The dollar stood at 118.38 yen (118.66) and 1.2094 Swiss francs
(1.2082).


The pound was being traded at 1.9992 dollars (2.0026).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold eased to 691.25
dollars per ounce, from 691.40 dollars late on Friday.

