

Former state secretary Agnes Horvath was sworn in as Hungary's
new health minister Monday to overhaul the state health insurance
system in one of the furthest-reaching reforms since 1989.


The liberal Horvath, 33, takes over from former health minister
Lajos Molnar, under whom she worked as state secretary and who
resigned earlier this month, accusing the prime minister of
dragging his feet over plans to replace the inefficient state
health insurance system with multiple private insurers.


Socialist Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsany said more studies were
needed to determine whether multiple insurers would be the best
way to overhaul the current system.


There are fears private insurers would not provide coverage for
the sick and elderly, or only at prices out of reach for the
average Hungarian. Under the current system, everyone who pays
social security, or paid during their working lives, is insured.


Liberal party chief and Economy Minister Janos Koka has staked
the leftist coalition's survival on the implementation of the
multi-insurer scheme by 2008.


The socialists depend on the liberals to form a majority in
parliament.


The government has already implemented several health reform
measures, including the introduction of co-payments of 300 forint
(1.20 euros, 1.50 dollars) for doctor's visits and a crackdown on
free riders who do not pay social security.


Plans for mass hospital closures have been watered down however
following protests by doctors and locals in recent months.


Pollsters have cited the health reforms as a crucial factor in
the government's loss of popularity.


The healthcare system, burdened by debt and low-quality
hospitals, has become a key test of the government's
determination to reform the economy, which is weighed down by the
highest budget deficit in the European Union.

