

Nagasaki's newly elected mayor vowed on Monday to rid the city of
violence less than a week after a gangster shot dead his
predecessor as he campaigned for office.


"I am determined to create a city with peace and safety,"
Tomihisa Taue said a day after he narrowly beat the son-in-law of
mayor Iccho Ito, who died six days ago in an assassination that
stunned Japan.


"We need to consider the situation by looking for ways to
eradicate violence," the 50-year-old former municipal official
told reporters at city hall.


Ito, a staunch anti-nuclear campaigner in a city forever linked
to the world's second and last atomic attack, had been seen as a
shoo-in for a fourth four-year term in the southwestern Japanese
city.


The 61-year-old, who enjoyed cross-party political support, was
shot twice in the back outside his campaign office near
Nagasaki's central rail station on April 17.


Ito's son-in-law Makoto Yokoo, a 40-year-old Tokyo-based
newspaper reporter who has never held elected office, stepped
into the race to replace him.


Taue, who expressed sympathy but warned against hereditary
succession, narrowly edged Yokoo out with turnout at a record low
of just over 50 percent.


Local media said an unusually large number of voters cast invalid
ballots, many of them for the late mayor.


A total of 15,435 votes were ruled out, roughly three times as
many as in the previous election in 2003, according to Kyodo
News.


Ito's assassin, Tetsuya Shiroo, has been linked to Japan's
biggest underworld syndicate, Yamaguchi-gumi, and is thought to
have had a personal grudge.


Shiroo allegedly had grievances with the city authorities after
his vehicle was damaged at a construction site four years ago.


The murder has prompted the government to consider tightening gun
controls in what remains one of the world's safest countries.

