

Chinese share prices rose sharply Monday, adding 3.53 percent for
another record finish, driven by continued strong fund inflows
and solid overseas markets, dealers said.


Banks, power generators and steelmakers were snapped up, they
said, adding that new money would push shares even higher as
concerns the government will take action to slow the runaway
economy appeared all but forgotten.


They said that while some commentators have been warning about
the dangers of a bubble bursting, investors, especially small
individual investors continue to flock to the market.


Some 110 companies closed up by their daily 10 percent limits.


The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index, which covers both A- and
B-shares listed on the Shanghai Stock Exchange, jumped 126.68
points to a record 3,710.89 on turnover of 183.17 billion yuan
(23.70 billion US dollars).


The Shanghai A-share Index was up 133.12 points or 3.53 percent
at 3,899.95 on turnover of 182.10 billion yuan and the Shenzhen
A-share Index added 41.14 points or 3.91 percent at a record
1,093.30, on turnover of 102.54 billion yuan.


"Investors continued to build positions after a quiet weekend
with no credit- tightening news announced and a strong
performance on Wall Street (Friday) also helped bolster investor
confidence," said Zeng Bo, an analyst at Changjiang Securities.


Dealers said the market will maintain its strength at least until
the launch of index futures, expected at some point soon. Index
futures are used by investors to hedge and leverage risk but are
also often implicated in volatile trade.


"Solid corporate earnings and abundant liquidity due to the
rising yuan will keep the market bullish in the short- and
medium-term, and there may be no major correction until the
launch of index futures," Cao Yan, an analyst at Soochow
Securities, said.


Financial stocks, power generators and steelmakers led the
gainers.


CITIC Securities was up 2.60 yuan or 5.17 percent at 52.87 while
Huaxia Bank added 0.49 yuan or 4.14 percent at 12.33 and Ping An
Insurance (Group) rose 1.64 yuan or 2.96 percent at 56.98.


Huaneng Power International Inc rose by its 10 percent daily
limit to 13.48 yuan. Guangxi Guidong Electric Power was also up
10 percent at 25.23.


Shanghai Electric Power was up 0.31 yuan or 3.34 percent at 9.60
after it said net profit for the first quarter rose 50 percent.


Bengang Steel Plates was up 10 percent at 13.55 yuan.


The Shanghai B-share Index was up 7.27 points or 3.61 percent to
208.57 on turnover of 1.07 billion US dollars and the Shenzhen
B-share Index put on 16.18 points or 2.90 percent at 574.88 on
turnover of 1.11 billion Hong Kong dollars (143.60 million US
dollars).

