

Former Arab Israeli MP Azmi Bishara hopes to whip up an
international support campaign before returning to Israel to face
the accusations that led him to resign, his party said Monday.


Bishara, a vocal critic of Israel's policies towards the
Palestinians and close to Syria, submitted his resignation from
parliament on Sunday in Cairo, saying he would not initially
return to Israel, where he faces a police probe.


"He will stay abroad to mobilise an Arab and international
solidarity campaign to prepare to confront," the Israeli
authorities, the secretary general of his National Democratic
Assembly party, Awad Abdelfattah, told AFP.


Abdelfattah said that Bishara would continue to lead the party,
known more widely by its Hebrew acronym Balad, and "continue his
political activities."


He also said Israeli police had sealed off his parliamentary
office immediately after his resignation was announced.


"Police closed the office but we have appealed against this
because Azmi Bishara still enjoys parliamentary immunity up to 48
hours after his resignation," he said.


"Closing the office shows the extent of animosity towards Azmi
Bishara."


Israeli police spokesman Micky Rosenfeld refused to comment when
contacted by AFP, given a news blackout on the investigation.


Israeli media has speculated, however, that accusations against
Bishara are of a "security nature."


The 50 year old, who had been a deputy since 1996, has travelled
several times to Syria where he met with President Bashar al-
Assad.


Several weeks after Israel and Hezbollah ended their war in
Lebanon last August, Bishara and two other Balad MPs carried out
a controversial visit to Syria and Lebanon in defiance of an
Israeli ban on such visits.

