

A series of bomb attacks killed at least 21 people in Iraq on
Monday, including 10 in a northern Christian village, security
officials said.


A car bomb close to offices of the Kurdistan Democratic Party in
the mainly Christian village of Tal Isquf, near the northern
restive city of Mosul, killed 10 people and wounded 20, party
spokesman Abdul Gani Ali told AFP.


Witnesses told AFP by telephone that a car loaded with explosives
exploded between the party office and a social club in the
village, 30 kilometres (18 miles) north of Mosul.


They said some of the victims were thought to be Kurdish
peshmerga fighters. The party is headed by powerful Kurdish
leader Massud Barzani who is the president of the northern
Kurdistan administration.


In Baghdad, a suicide bomber blew himself up outside a restaurant
near the fortified Green Zone, killing seven people and wounding
14, a security official said.


The bombing took place outside the Al-Yasmin restaurant near the
highly secured area which houses the Iraqi parliament and the US
embassy.


Another car bomb exploded in a parking lot, also near the zone
and close to the Iranian embassy, an AFP correspondent said.


A security official said one person was wounded in the blast in
the parking lot used largely by visitors going to the Iranian
mission.


Also to the north of Baghdad, in the violence-plagued city of
Baquba, a bomber exploded his car near the city council building,
killing four policemen, police Lieutenant Ahmed Ali from Baquba
said.


The dead included a senior police officer Brigadier General Safa
Abdullah, his son who was a first lieutenant and Abdullah's two
police bodyguards, Ali said.


The attack wounded another 25 people, many of them policemen, he
added.


The attacks came day a day after deadly carnage left 50 people
dead across Iraq on Sunday.

