

Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych and rival Prime Minister
Viktor Yanukovych met Monday in an attempt to resolve a
constitutional crisis as thousands of supporters from both sides
demonstrated.


At the same time, the country's top court heard arguments on the
president's order earlier this month to dissolve parliament and
hold early elections, which triggered the crisis.


Yanukovych, who heads the pro-Russian ruling coalition in
parliament, has defied the order.


The standoff was reflected on the street in front of the
constitutional court. Thousands of protestors, separated into two
camps by metal barriers, chanted the rival leaders' names.


Tens of thousands more have taken to the streets since the start
of the standoff, though numbers have been far lower than during
the first public confrontation between the two in mass protests
in 2004 known as the Orange Revolution.


Those protests helped overturn a flawed presidential election
first granted to pro-western Yanukovych. Yushchenko won a re-
vote.


On the sixth day of court hearings Monday, justices questioned a
parliamentary representative about why he thought the president's
order to dissolve parliament had been unconstitutional.


The crisis has wearied many ordinary Ukrainians, whose hopes for
dramatic economic progress and cleaner politics after the Orange
Revolution have long since dissolved.


"We don't trust anyone anymore. They're fighting over who gets to
take the bribes," said Volodymyr, 41, a taxi driver whose car was
stopped by a stream of protestors bearing flags of Yanukovych's
Regions Party.


"Every one of them is paid to be out there," he said of the
protestors. "It's just a day's work."

