

Pakistan hopes that a meeting between President Pervez Musharraf
and his Afghan counterpart Hamid Karzai in Turkey next week will
help clear up misunderstandings, the foreign office said Monday.


The two key allies of the US-led war on terror have been at
loggerheads for months over Kabul's claims that Islamabad is
either failing to tackle or is actively fostering a growing
Taliban insurgency.


"It is always useful to maintain dialogue," foreign office
spokeswoman Tasnim Aslam said at a weekly briefing when asked
what Pakistan's aims were from the meeting due on April 29.


Aslam said statements from Afghanistan "reflect a lack of
understanding about Pakistan and our policy and what we are doing
to ensure that there is no cross- border movement by undesirable
elements."


Pakistan says it has 80,000 troops stationed on the frontier with
Afghanistan to stop insurgents crossing and that pro-government
tribesmen recently killed 300 "foreign militants" in the region.


But Pakistan's plans to fence part of the border have angered
Afghanistan. On Thursday Kabul said its troops had torn down some
fencing and clashed with Pakistani soldiers.


Pakistan was one of three countries that recognised the harsh
Taliban regime in the late 1990s, but later supported the US-led
invasion of Afghanistan after the September 11, 2001 attacks on
the United States.


Aslam said that Pakistan has stood by Afghanistan "in all times
of adversity very consistently" but said that its neighbour faced
massive internal problems including from drugs, warlords and a
lack of national reconciliation efforts.


She reiterated that the presence of some three million Afghan
refugees was creating problems for Pakistan because "there are
reports that the refugees are providing shelter to Taliban and
others."

