

Nikko Cordial said Monday that it had filed a multi-million-
dollar lawsuit against three former executives over a fraud
scandal at the Japanese securities firm, which is the subject of
a takeover bid by US giant Citigroup.


Japan's third-largest brokerage house filed the 3.36-billion-yen
(28 million dollar) suit against former president Junichi Arimura
and two other former top managers with the Tokyo District Court
on Monday, it said in a statement.


Arimura resigned in December after the company admitted to having
falsified its financial statements.


Nikko Cordial alleged that the former chairman of Nikko Principal
Investments Japan, Hirofumi Hirano, and Hajime Yamamoto, former
senior executive officer at Nikko Cordial, colluded to falsify
profits.


Hirano falsified the issuance date of exchangeable bonds that
Nikko Principal Investments received from another Nikko unit, NPI
Holdings, while Yamamoto produced and submitted the fraudulent
accounts, it added.


Former president Arimura is accused of having neglected his duty
to monitor the activities of the two managers, added Nikko
Cordial, which had announced in February its intention to launch
the lawsuit.


In January a panel of outside experts tapped by the company
reported that former Nikko Cordial executives had been "actively
involved" in the systematic violation of laws and had inflated
profits for the year to March 2005.


Citigroup launched a 13.4-billion-dollar takeover bid for Nikko
Cordial last month, aiming to take majority control of the
Japanese company under a deal approved by the boards of the two
firms.


The tender offer of 1,700 yen per Nikko Cordial share expires on
Thursday.


Citigroup, which already owned a 4.9 percent stake in Nikko
Cordial, is betting that it can succeed where other US banking
giants have failed in Japan, but several major shareholders have
rebuffed the offer as too low.

