

Interim Sydney FC coach Branko Culina on Monday accepted a two-
year contract to manage the club full-time and set out some lofty
ambitions.


Culina, technical director of New South Wales Soccer, stepped
into arguably the hottest coaching seat in the A-League and
immediately stated his ambition to lift the high-profile club to
the top of the domestic tree.


He has strong coaching credentials and has beaten off some 40
candidates from 10 countries for the job. He will have come at a
much more palatable price than predecessors Pierre Littbarski and
Terry Butcher.


"It is fair to say there will be people out there taking notice
and looking at it in disappointment. You know, Sydney is a very
high-profile club and they have opted for a local coach," said
Culina.


"Are Australian coaches as good as some of the overseas coaches
that we have?


"It is fair to say there will be that expectation (of
questioning) but I have no fear and no doubt that we as a club
will be successful and hopefully my contribution to that will be
significant."


Culina served as Sydney's interim coach for the opening three
rounds of the AFC Champions League following the departure of
former England international Butcher, and impressed enough to be
handed a longer contract.


"I would be disappointed and I am sure the club would be if we
were not in that top position in Australian football," added
Culina, who is the father of Socceroo midfielder Jason Culina.


Sydney's next game is an AFC Champions League clash against
Indonesia's Persik Kediri on Wednesday.

