

EU customs officials intercepted millions of fake cigarettes and
products ranging from toys to watches as part of an international
crackdown on Asian counterfeits, the European Commission said
Monday.


About 135 million counterfeit cigarettes and over 550,000 other
goods were seized in February as part of the operation codenamed
Diabolo, targeting container shipments originating from 16 Asian
ports.


Customs agents seized the equivalent of 20 containers of
cigarettes and goods such as textiles, furniture, suitcases,
mobile phone accessories, shoes, electronics, toys, sunglasses,
football equipment and even undeclared poultry meat.


"Diabolo marks a new milestone in fighting international customs
fraud," EU Anti-fraud Commissioner Siim Kallas told journalists,
adding that it was the first time EU and Asian customs agencies
worked so closely together.


"With world trade developing fast, we must make sure that
internationally agreed rules are respected," Kallas said,
declaring the operation a "clear success."


Over 300 EU customs officers relied on support from international
police services Interpol and Europol as well as the World Customs
Organization to zero in on shipments of counterfeits in normal,
legitimate trade flows from Asia.


The operation was carried out on agreement within the Asia-Europe
Meeting, an informal grouping of the 27 EU members and Brunei,
Myanmar, China, Cambodia, Indonesia, Japan, South Korea,
Malaysia, Laos, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, and
Vietnam.


The ports targeted in the operation were not identified.

