

India's space agency successfully launched an Italian satellite
into orbit Monday in the country's first commercial space
mission.


The Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle (PSLV), on its 11th flight
since 1993, put the Agile satellite into its intended orbit about
550 kilometres (325 miles) above the earth 20 minutes after
blastoff.


"It's a historic moment for the entire space community: an
Italian satellite being placed in precise orbit by a totally
Indian-built vehicle," Indian Space Research Organisation chief
G. Madhavan Nair said on state-run TV.


"We have proven the reliability of the PSLV, its cost-
effectiveness and given on-time delivery," he added from the
Sriharikota spaceport, 80 kilometres (50 miles) north of Chennai
in southern India.


Leaving behind a massive trail of orange and white smoke, the
rocket blasted off exactly at 3:30 pm local time (1000 GMT),
carrying the 352-kilogramme (774-pound) satellite meant to gather
information about the origins of the universe.


The success of the mission is a boost for Indian efforts to
commercialise its 44 -year-old space programme.


India wants to compete with the United States, Russia, China, the
Ukraine and the European Space Agency in offering commercial
satellite launch services, a market worth up to 2.5 billion
dollars a year.


For Monday's launch of the Italian satellite, the Indian Space
Research Organisation (ISRO), which runs India's space programme,
is charging 11 million dollars, the Press Trust of India has
reported.


Space agency officials have confirmed the fee is close to that
figure.

