

Corruption is rife in some Commonwealth countries and nations
must show more political will to stamp it out, the group's
secretary general said Monday.


Don McKinnon said corruption cost governments billions of dollars
a year and also threatened foreign investment.


"If any of the Commonwealth countries want to be rid of
corruption, then each and every one of its citizens must know,
deep within, that corruption is wrong," McKinnon said in a speech
at a forum on integrity here.


"It tends to be the poor who suffer the most.... It threatens
development efforts, including loss of investor confidence and
national pride," he said.


McKinnon arrived in Malaysia Monday as part of a last regional
tour including Singapore and Brunei before he steps down from the
post at the end of the year. He has served since 1999.


Citing a corruption perception index by watchdog Transparency
International, McKinnon said countries such as Bangladesh,
Nigeria, Pakistan and Kenya were sitting "dangerously near the
bottom" of the world rankings.


He said the United Nations had estimated that corruption costs
Africa 150 billion dollars a year.


"It is the 800 million Commonwealth citizens who eke out a living
on just one dollar a day who suffer most from the greed of a
few," McKinnon said.


"Anti-corruption strategies need to be coordinated, multi-
faceted, targeted and supported by demonstrable political will,"
he added.


Established in 1926 and reformed in 1949, the Commonwealth of
Nations is the successor to the British Empire and brings
together 53 diverse nations -- around a third of the world's
countries and a quarter of its population.

