

The Spanish intelligence service fears that Al-Qaeda militants
could attack a target in Spain or in France in the coming weeks,
possibly before the French election runoff, a media report said
on Monday.


Private radio station Cadena Ser, which is close to the governing
Socialists, said the information is contained in the latest
intelligence report on Al-Qaeda activity, compiled after April 11
suicide bombings in Algiers claimed by the network.


In Spain, the service is focusing on the possibility of an attack
on May 27 during local elections, or during the America's Cup
yachting competition which ends on July 7 in Valencia in the east
of the country.


In France, the network could strike before May 6, the day of the
second round runoff between rightwinger Nicolas Sarkozy and
socialist Segolene Royal, the radio station said on its website.


Earlier this month, Spain's top anti-terrorist judge warned that
the country, in particular its north African enclaves, is
threatened by Islamist attacks following suicide bombings in
Morocco and Algeria.


Judge Baltasar Garzon, one of six investigating judges for
Spain's National Court, told La Vanguardia daily that "there's a
big risk that Spain could be the subject of a new Islamist
attack."


Baltasar, who has successfully prosecuted Al-Qaeda operatives,
added that Spain's tiny north African enclaves of Ceuta and
Melilla, on the border with Morocco, are particularly at risk.


His remarks came after two suicide bomb attacks in Algiers killed
at least 24 people, and three suspected members of an Islamist
cell blew themselves up as they were pursued by police in
Morocco.


The attacks in Algiers were claimed by Al-Qaeda's branch in north
Africa.


A statement posted on a website which often carries Al-Qaeda
messages claiming responsibility for the bombings included a
warning against Spain.

