

European stock markets began the week in negative territory on
Monday amid merger and acquisition news in the banking,
pharmaceutical and transport sectors, dealers said.


Investors took in their stride news that rightwinger Nicolas
Sarkozy and Socialist Segolene Royal will face an epic duel for
the French presidency after a first round presidential vote was
held over the weekend.


Dealers said that the markets were also setting aside a pre-
weekend record rally on Wall Street's Dow Jones shares index.


"The market is treading water, looking for a lead it hasn't yet
got," said Mike Lenhoff, chief strategist at Brewin Dolphin
Securities in London.


"I wouldn't be reading too much into the quiet start to the
week."


In late morning trade, London's FTSE 100 index of leading shares
was showing a drop of 0.30 percent at 6,467.60 points.


In Paris the CAC 40 index fell 0.47 percent to 5,911.06 points
and Frankfurt's DAX 30 sank 0.33 percent to 7,318.39 in early
afternoon deals.


Meanwhile the Amsterdam Exchanges Index shed 0.28 percent to
534.87 and Madrid's Ibex 35 index lost 0.83 percent in value to
14,956.20 points.


The euro stood at 1.3565 dollars.


Dutch bank ABN Amro and Britain's Barclays announced on Monday an
alliance to create Europe's second-largest bank in the largest
global banking alliance ever.


The planned takeover would take place via a share swap valuing
ABN Amro at 67 billion euros (90 billion dollars) with every ABN
Amro share valued at 36.25 euros, the banks said in a statement.


The news sent ABN Amro's share price soaring 1.16 percent to
36.71 euros on the Amsterdam stock exchange.


In London however, Barclays shares slumped 1.33 percent to 740
pence.


Elsewhere in the banking sector, Societe Generale had said late
Friday that it was not involved in any talks over a possible
strategic merger.


The French bank's stock tumbled 2.59 percent to 152.04 euros in
Paris.


Meanwhile, Anglo-Swedish pharmaceuticals giant AstraZeneca said
it would buy US biotechnology company MedImmune for 15.6 billion
dollars (11.5 billion euros).


But AstraZeneca shares dropped 1.42 percent to 2,911 pence, as
the group unveiled strong first-quarter results which had already
been priced in, dealers said.


In the transport sector, British Airways said Monday it had
approached several private equity groups about a potential
consortium takeover of Spanish airline Iberia, in which it
already owns a ten percent stake.


BA shares showed a gain of 0.10 percent at 514.5 pence, while in
Madrid, Iberia stock shed 0.76 percent to 3.93 euros.


In Asia, Japanese share prices closed little changed as a
stronger yen unsettled nervous investors ahead of the domestic
corporate results season, dealers said. The Tokyo Stock
Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares was flat at
17,455.37 points.


Hong Kong's key Hang Seng Index also closed flat at 20,556.57
points.


In Wall Street trading on Friday, the leading Dow Jones
Industrial Average share index struck a record finish for a third
straight day in row, surging 1.2 percent to an all-time closing
high of 12,961.98.


The Dow flirted close to the key level of 13,000 points as
investors cheered a flurry of upbeat profit reports from
corporate America.


The tech-rich Nasdaq composite meanwhile rocketed 0.84 percent to
close at 2,526.39 while the broad-market Standard and Poor's
soared 0.93 percent higher to close at 1,484.35 points.


Solid earnings news from Internet search giant Google,
pharmaceutical heavyweight Pfizer and fast-food behemoth
McDonald's had helped boost US investor optimism, dealers said.

