

British confectionery giant Cadbury will be prosecuted over a
salmonella food scare which saw more than one million chocolate
bars recalled, local authorities said Monday.


Cadbury Limited is accused of placing "unsafe" products on the
market and of allegedly failing to "immediately inform" the
relevant authorities about the contamination, said Birmingham
City Council.


Cadbury also faces prosecution under a third charge of failing to
"identify hazards" from chocolate bars contaminated with
salmonella and of failing to identify "corrective actions."


Each offence carries a maximum penalty of unlimited fines and/or
two years in prison.


Cadbury has been summonsed to appear before Birmingham
Magistrates' Court in Britain's second city on June 15.


The chocolate bars were taken off the shelves in stores across
Britain in June last year over fears they may have been
contaminated.


Seven of Cadbury's most popular products were recalled, including
its signature Dairy Milk bar.


"We have fully co-operated with the authorities throughout their
inquiries and we will examine the charges that have been
brought," Cadbury said in a statement Monday.


"As there is now legal action pending, it would be inappropriate
for us to comment further."


The contamination with a rare strain of salmonella was traced to
a leaking pipe at the Marlbrook plant near Leominster in west
central England, which generates 97,000 tonnes of the base
material milk chocolate crumb every year.


Britain's Health Protection Agency said that Cadbury's chocolate
was the most likely cause of an infection outbreak in more than
30 people.


The affair cost the company 30 million pounds (60 million
dollars, 44 million euros), Cadbury said in December.


Cadbury Limited is the confectionery division of Cadbury
Schweppes, with the Schweppes branch being a soft drinks giant.


Cadbury Schweppes is to demerger, separating its confectionery
and Americas Beverages businesses, the company said last month.

