

Belgium's King Albert II was due to arrive in Latvia Monday for
the first-ever visit by a Belgian monarch to the Baltic state.


A special plane carrying the king and Queen Paola, Belgian
Foreign Minister Karel de Gucht and dozens of academics and
businessmen was due to touch down at Riga International Airport
at around 2:00 pm (1100 GMT).


The three-day visit is aimed at underscoring the strength of
relations between Latvia and Belgium, a spokeswoman for Latvian
President Vaira Vike-Freiberga told AFP.


"The visit is aimed at boosting bilateral relations and
discussing the  European context," spokeswoman Aiva Rozenberga
said.


"It is a sign of the highest recognition of the long-standing and
excellent relations between our two countries."


Latvia and Belgium have had diplomatic relations since 1921 when
the Baltic state enjoyed a brief period of independence between
the two world wars.


Belgium did not recognise Latvia's incorporation into the Soviet
Union at the close of World War II, and the two countries
officially renewed diplomatic relations when Latvia regained
independence in 1991, with the collapse of the Soviet Union.


During his visit, King Albert will meet with Prime Minister
Aigars Kalvitis, speaker of the Latvian parliament, Indulis
Emsis, and hold private talks with Vike-Freiberga.


He will also take part in an academics' forum at the University
of Latvia and a bilateral economic forum, and visit several
historic sites in Riga, including the Freedom Monument and
Occupation Museum.


On Wednesday, Albert II is due to travel to the western port of
Liepaja, where he will visit the Baltic Navy Diving Training
Centre and meet with local officials.

