

A pump failure at a water treatment plant discharged tens of
millions of litres of raw sewage into the estuary waters of the
Scottish capital Edinburgh before it was repaired Monday,
officials said.


The major leak over the weekend sparked health concerns among
city residents who were warned to stay away from the Firth of
Forth shoreline.


"The flow of screened sewage from Seafield Waste Water Treatment
Works into the Forth has now stopped as temporary pumps have now
been successfully fitted," utility company Scottish Water said in
a statement.


At one stage, 1,000 litres of raw sewage per second were pouring
into the Forth estuary.


As much as 100 million litres may have been discharged, the BBC
reported.


The flow of sewage into the plant could not be stopped without
causing problems for the historic city, the company said, having
earlier apologised for the "catastrophic failure" at the pumping
station.


Partially-treated waste water was discharged into the estuary
with solids removed so it could dilute better.


"This avoided the alternative of putting sewage flows on to the
streets, which was not an option," Scottish Water said.


Scientists were to begin taking samples from the Forth estuary
Monday and results were expected Tuesday.


Scottish Water chief executive Jon Hargreaves told BBC radio that
the incident was unlikely to have caused long-term environmental
damage.


But Colin Bayes of the Scottish Environment Protection Agency
(SEPA) said: "This is a major incident and we are treating it as
such."

