

Seven activists in Myanmar were hospitalised last week after they
were attacked while trying to teach the public about human
rights, state media reported Monday.


The activists were attacked Wednesday in the village of Okpon, in
Ayeyawaddy division west of Yangon, where they were telling
residents about the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, state
media said.


The New Light of Myanmar, a government mouthpiece, on Monday said
residents of Okpon "drove out the destructive elements who
entered the village with intent to incite public unrest."


Pro-democracy activists denounced the attack, and said two of the
human rights campaigners remained in hospital.


The 88 Generation Students Group, which comprises former student
leaders who led an uprising against military rule in 1988, said
in a statement the attack "proves that there is no security
guarantee for the citizens of Burma."


"We also urge the authorities to prevent violence in the future
and to guarantee the security of every citizen of Burma," the
statement said, using the country's former name.


According to the activists, campaigners Maung Maung Lay and Myint
Naing were still in hospital in Yangon with head injuries after
the attack in Okpon.


Myanmar's military government, which has ruled in various guises
since 1962, never allows any protests or political movements
within the country.


Seven people were arrested on Sunday in Yangon after they staged
a rare protest against economic hardships in the country.


A similar protest exactly two months earlier was the first public
show of dissent in a decade against the repressive military
regime. About 20 protesters were arrested and later released.

