

Security forces opened fire on pro-Taliban extremists who tried
to storm the house of a rival Islamist leader in a Pakistani
tribal region on Monday, killing six people, officials said.


More than 1,000 members of the hardline Lashkar-i-Islami (Army of
Islam) organisation gathered in Bara, a town bordering
Afghanistan, to demonstrate against the rival Ansar-ul-Islam
(Companions of Islam) group, they said.


Some armed members of the mob then marched towards a nearby
village to attack the house of Ansar-ul-Islam's leader, Pir
Saifur Rehman, a security official told AFP on condition of
anonymity.


"In a bid to disperse the crowd, local tribal police and
paramilitary units opened fire and six people were killed and 10
injured," the official said.


Most of the victims were men in their late teens or early 20s, he
said.


Lashkar-i-Islami spokesman Misri Khan said he knew of five people
who had died on the spot and dozens of others who were wounded.
"The number of dead could go up," he added.


The situation was tense in the area ahead of funeral prayers for
the victims scheduled to take place on Monday afternoon,
residents said.


The chief of Lashkar-i-Islami, Mangal Bagh, made a speech
overnight on an illegal FM radio station that he owns urging
supporters to take to the streets on Monday.


Authorities shut down the station last year for allegedly
spreading hatred against the rival group, but Bagh recently
reopened it from a secret location.


The clash comes a day after police fired tear gas to disperse
Lashkar-i-Islami activists who were protesting against the
blowing up of the organisation's headquarters last week.


Officials also said Lashkar's commander had set up a Taliban-
style court in the building. The group was also behind the
stoning and shooting to death of a woman and two men accused of
adultery in March.


Last year, 25 people died in battles in Bara between supporters
of the same two groups.

