

Palestinian interior minister Hani al-Qawasmeh submitted his
resignation on Monday but prime minister Ismail Haniya refused
his request to step down, a government spokesman said.


"He submitted his resignation to the prime minister but the
latter refused and asked him to remain in his post," Ghazi Hamad
told reporters in Gaza City.


Hamad linked Qawasmeh's decision to resign to the "professional
situation within the interior ministry and the obstacles he is
facing."


The spokesman said that the minister would continue to attend
cabinet meetings, however, "until his resignation was defined"
after president Mahmud Abbas returns to the Palestinian
territories from a foreign tour.


Qawasmeh is an independent who was totally unknown in political
circles before being made interior minister in the Palestinian
national unity government that took office on March 17.


His nomination to one of the most important portfolios in the
cabinet and one that controls the security services was the
subject of drawn out talks between Haniya's Hamas party and main
rival Fatah, which is headed by Abbas.


The security services, dominated by Fatah loyalists, had troubled
relations with Qawasmeh's predecessor, Said Siam. To counter
their weight, Siam created a controversial Executive Force
essentially dominated by Hamas supporters.


Despite repeated promises from Palestinian leaders, the security
services, riddled with infighting, have been incapable of
imposing law and order on rampant insecurity in the Gaza Strip.


The new Palestinian government took office following a power-
sharing deal brokered in February that sought to end months of
deadly factional fighting between Hamas Fatah, and end crippling
Western sanctions.

