

Japan has no plans at present to set up a state investment fund
to manage its huge foreign exchange reserves, officials said
Monday.


The Financial Times reported Monday that Japan is considering
establishing a special state fund to manage part of its 909
billion dollars in foreign exchange reserves, most of which are
currently invested in US Treasuries.


The fund, modelled on Singapore's Temasek, is being discussed by
a key economic advisory council headed by Shinzo Abe, the report
said, citing Kotaro Tamura, a parliamentary secretary at the
Cabinet Office.


But Tetsuo Ota, an official at the secretariat of the economic
advisory council, said the members had not discussed the idea of
a state investment fund and that the report probably reflected
Tamura's own personal opinions.


"With regard to the foreign exchange reserves, there have been no
specific discussions within the advisory council," Ota told AFP.


Vice Finance Minister Hideto Fujii also told reporters that Japan
was not considering setting up an investment fund to manage its
forex reserves.


Asian nations are considering how to make better use of their
foreign exchange reserves which are together worth almost 2.3
trillion dollars.


Analysts at Barclays Capital said they did not believe that Japan
would move to a more active investment approach on its foreign
exchange reserves any time soon.


"However, if this eventually went ahead the impact would be
significant," they wrote, noting that 80 percent of the country's
foreign exchange reserves are currently invested in US
Treasuries.

