

Hoya Corp., the Japanese optical glass manufacturer hoping to
take over camera maker Pentax, reported Monday a 10.3 jump in net
profits to a record high due to brisk sales.


Hoya posted net earnings of 83.39 billion yen (704 million
dollars) for the fiscal year to March on revenue of 390.09
billion yen, up 13.3 percent.


Operating profit increased by 6.1 percent to 107.21 billion yen,
also an all- time high, helped by a softer yen, Hoya said in a
statement.


Hoya said it enjoyed strong demand and rising revenues from sales
of optical glass to high-tech clients.


The company's sales of electro-optical products, which include
products used in the production of semiconductors, glass disks
for hard disk drives and lenses for digital cameras, grew by 15.1
percent to 219.25 billion yen.


"The market overseas for eyeglass lenses showed an expansion
while the healthcare division also performed well, showing an
increase in revenues," Hoya said after eye care sales grew by
14.7 percent to 119.81 billion yen.


The company did not provide any earnings forecasts for the new
fiscal year to March 2008.


Hoya said that it was continuing discussions with Pentax Corp.
over a possible takeover of the camera maker and aims to launch a
tender offer after June, on the condition that Pentax agrees to
the plan.


Earlier this month Pentax scrapped a plan to merge with Hoya amid
shareholder opposition to the share swap.


Pentax, whose president resigned amid a boardroom rift over the
deal, has said it will keep studying the possibility of a tie-up
with Hoya.


Japan's camera industry has been transforming itself in the face
of falling prices and stiff competition, with leading makers
giving up on traditional film cameras in favor of digital models.

