

A special panda-naming panel is sifting through thousands of
competition entries ahead of this week's arrival in Hong Kong of
two cubs currently known as 606 and 610, it was announced Monday.


The 20-month-old giant pandas, a gift from China to mark the 10th
anniversary of the handover of the former British colony to the
mainland, will leave their home at a conservation centre in
Wolong, Sichuan, Thursday morning and will fly to Hong Kong on a
chartered plane, arriving at about 4pm.


A competition has been held to name the pandas, which each weigh
about 60 kilograms (132 pounds) and the results will be announced
at a handover ceremony at Hong Kong airport.


A spokeswoman for the Hong Kong Home Affairs Bureau said the
response had been overwhelming.


The judging panel, including representatives of the Wolong centre
and Ocean Park, a theme park that also focuses on conservation,
which will be the pandas' new home, will pick one winning entry
containing names for both animals.


Kept in special crates for the journey, the animals, a male and a
female, will be accompanied by a team of vets and feeders and
will be given a police escort to Ocean Park.


They will be closely monitored during the journey and will be fed
bamboo leaves, flour rolls with vitamins and milk.


Ocean Park is also the home of "An An" and "Jia Jia," who arrived
in 1999, following Hong Kong's July 1997 handover after nearly
150 years under British colonial rule.


Timothy Ng, an Ocean Park assistant director, said the new
arrivals, born in August 2005, would live together until they
reached sexual maturity at about four to five years old, but
would be kept apart from the resident pandas.


The park plans to unveil the new pair to the public on July 1.


The giant panda, China's most endearing symbol, is one of the
world's most endangered species.


Experts estimate that there are about 1,600 pandas living in the
wild, while more than 200 live in captivity.

