

Ousted Haitian president Jean Bertrand Aristide, exiled in South
Africa, will this week receive a doctorate in African Languages
in a ceremony attended by President Thabo Mbeki.


The priest, who became Haiti's first democratically-elected
leader, has been a guest of the South African government since
fleeing an uprising in the Caribbean nation in February 2004.


Shortly after making his home in South Africa, Aristide was
appointed an honorary research fellow at the University of South
Africa (UNISA) in Pretoria.


The populist ruler, who failed to win the approval of Haiti's
middle and upper classes during his two stints as president, has
qualifications in theology, philosophy and psychology obtained at
universities in Haiti and Rome.


"He will receive his doctorate in African Languages," UNISA
spokesman Abe Mokoka told AFP.


Spokesman in the presidency David Hlabane, confirmed that Mbeki
would be attending the graduation ceremony on Wednesday evening.


Opposition parties in South Africa have questioned the state's
decision to house Aristide on taxpayer's money.


Foreign Minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma told parliament last year
the government was covering the costs of the stay of Aristide,
his family, staff and entourage, which were "similar to the cost
normally incurred for a South African cabinet minister."


She said conditions such as stability and an assurance of the
former president's safety were not yet in place for him to return
to Haiti.


Aristide, 52, has long maintained that he was forced to step down
under pressure from the United States and France and had urged
the African Union to take up his claims that he was victim of a
coup.

