

Germany believes the credibility of World Bank governor Paul
Wolfowitz and the institution itself has been plunged into doubt
by revelations that he arranged a hefty pay rise for his
girlfriend.


"The credibility of Paul Wolfowitz and the World Bank have been
thrown into doubt," a spokesman for German Development Minister
Heidemarie Wieczorek-Zeul told a regular government press
conference.


Wieczorek-Zeul, who is also Germany's governor to the World Bank,
said in the Financial Times Deutschland newspaper on Monday that
it was "no longer acceptable" that Wolfowitz was refusing to
resign.


"My conclusion is that Wolfowitz should do the bank a service and
take the consequences himself. And the sooner, the better," she
said.


Chief government spokesman Ulrich Wilhelm said Germany, and
Chancellor Angela Merkel, had "full confidence that the World
Bank would find a solution that corresponds to its high
principles."


Wolfowitz has refused to resign over the revelations that he
ordered a salary worth nearly 200,000 dollars for his bank
employee girlfriend, Shaha Riza, in 2005.


But his future hangs in the balance after a crisis meeting of the
bank's 24 executive directors on Friday to discuss the situation.


More than 40 senior former World Bank officials earlier Monday
called for his immediate resignation.


"We believe that he can no longer be an effective leader," they
said in a letter to the Financial Times, which was signed by
staff including four former senior vice presidents and 14 ex-vice
presidents.

