

Agence France-Presse and Italian news agency ANSA on Monday
announced a cooperation deal for an economic and social news
Internet portal for Mediterranean basin countries.


AFP will join 18 other national agencies which have been
supplying news to the ANSAmed portal since 2004.


AFP will contribute output from its southern French bureaux in
Marseille, Nice and Montpellier, as well as from its bureaux in
Algeria, Morocco, Tunisia and Mauritania.


AFP also committed to supplying ANSAmed with news items of
European- Mediterranean from newsrooms around the Mediterranean.


ANSAmed publishes news in Italian, English and Arabic, will
receive between 10 and 20 daily news items with a Mediterranean
angle from AFP.


AFP's chairman, Pierre Louette, said: "AFP is global today
because it is multi- regional. Everything concerning the
Mediterranean concerns us, and we wanted to be part of this great
idea to supply news 'about' and 'for' a great region of culture,
trade and history, which is more than ever situated at the centre
of geo-political stakes."


ANSA's chief executive Mario Rosso said AFP's contribution was
"particularly valuable" because the international news agency
shared the founding principle of ANSAmed, which is "a
journalistic network which gives media and all users in the
region a unique panorama of news generated in the region and
targetted at everyone wanting to operate in the Mediterranean
area."


AFP and ANSA already buy each other's editorial services and work
together in several forums at a European and Mediterranean level.


ANSAmed's 19 member agencies are AA (Turkey), ACN (Catalonia),
AFP, AMI (Mauritania), ANA (Greece), ANSA (Italy), APS (Algeria),
ATA (Albania), CNA (Cyprus), MAP (Morocco), Mena (Egypt), NNA
(Lebanon), PETRA (Jordan), QNA (Qatar), SABA (Yemen), SANA
(Syria), STA (Slovenia), TAP (Tunisia) and WAM (United Arab
Emirates).

