

An arbitration court Monday began hearing a dispute between
Singapore Airlines (SIA) and its pilots' union over how much
pilots flying the Airbus A380 jumbo jet should be paid.


The Air Line Pilots Association of Singapore (ALPA-S), which
represents 90 percent of SIA's pilots, wants its members to be
paid more for flying the A380 because it is larger and requires
added responsibilities.


SIA however wants to peg the salary of pilots flying the A380 to
those of pilots handling Boeing B777, Loh Oun Hean, SIA
divisional vice president of industrial relations, told the
Industrial Arbitration Court in Singapore.


The monthly salary range of pilots flying B777 and A350 aircraft
is between 9,300 and 15,300 Singapore dollars (6,159 to 10,132
US), he said.


SIA, one of the world's most profitable airlines, is set to be
the first carrier globally to receive the A380 super jumbo in
October after a series of delays blamed on wiring problems pushed
back delivery from earlier last year.


The airline has committed to buy 19 of the A380s, and Loh said by
2013, the double-decker A380 will make up 20 percent of the
airline's total fleet.


Captain Robert Ting, vice-president of SIA's Flight Operations
Division, told the court physical differences between the A380
and the Boeing 777-300 and 747-400 would have little impact on
piloting due to similarities in system technologies, cockpit
layout and instrumentation.


While the A380 is heavier than other Airbus and Boeing jets, the
weight difference is managed by a high level of automation and
other aerospace technologies, he said.


The pilots' union is expected to present their side on Tuesday.


The Industrial Arbitration Court in Singapore maintains
industrial peace through the certification of collective
agreements, regulates industrial relations and resolution of
industrial disputes.


ALPA-S, with about 1,700 members, has long been regarded as the
only workers' group in Singapore willing to stand up to the
government, which has kept a tight rein on industrial action.


SIA chairman Stephen Lee said earlier this month the dispute with
the pilots' union is not expected to delay the scheduled delivery
of A380.

