

India said Monday that talks to resolve a longstanding border
dispute with giant northern neighbour China were "friendly" and
"constructive" and would be continued at a later date.


An Indian foreign ministry statement said the three-day talks
between Chinese Vice Foreign Minister Dai Bingguo and Indian
National Security Advisor M.K. Narayanan were held in an "open,
friendly, cooperative and constructive atmosphere."


"The two Special Representatives continued their discussions on a
framework for the boundary settlement" on the basis of an
agreement signed in New Delhi in April 2005, during a visit by
Chinese premier Wen Jiabao.


The next round of talks would be held in China "at a mutually
convenient time," the statement added, without indicating whether
differences on their border -- a legacy of their brief but bitter
1962 war -- had been narrowed.


The Chinese delegation did not say whether any progress had been
achieved.


India says China occupies 38,000 square kilometres (15,200 square
miles) of its territory, while Beijing claims 90,000 square
kilometres of the remote Indian state of Arunachal Pradesh.


A formal ceasefire line was never established after 1962, but the
border has remained mostly peaceful after agreements were signed
in 1993 and 1996.


This was the 10th round of talks between the two sides since
India and China appointed special representatives in 2003 to
speed up a resolution to the problem.


During a visit to New Delhi in November, Chinese President Hu
Jintao said both sides would give priority to ending the row.


Diplomatic ties between the two economic rivals have increased in
recent years with many bilateral visits and two-way trade
touching two billion dollars a month.


Sources said premier Singh plans to visit China this year.

