

Hong Kong share prices closed flat Monday as a sharp drop in
large-cap China Mobile negated early gains driven by Wall
Street's record finish on Friday, dealers said.


They said China Mobile slumped after announcing lower-than-
expected margins of earnings before interest, taxation,
depreciation and amortization (EBITA) for the first quarter,
while some investors also turned cautious due to renewed concerns
over possible policy-tightening measures in China.


The market also took note of a flat finish on the Tokyo bourse
after early gains.


The Hang Seng Index closed down 10.02 points at 20,556.57, off a
high of 20,757.41 and a low of 20,529.07. Turnover was 50.55
billion Hong Kong dollars (6.5 billion US).


"The market turned flat due mainly to profit-taking... and a flat
closing on the Tokyo bourse," said Jackson Wong, investment
manager at Tanrich Securities.


"China Mobile offset (the market's) early gains after its weaker-
than-expected first quarter results," he said.


The mainland telecoms giant announced on Friday a 22.3 percent
year-on-year rise in first quarter net profit to 17.56 billion
yuan (2.3 billion US), slightly missing consensus analyst
forecasts.


EBITDA rose 13.8 percent year-on-year in the quarter to 40.72
billion yuan but the EBITDA margin contracted to 52.4 percent
from 55 percent.


Wong said the market lacked momentum to rise further despite a
strong A-shares market on the mainland and a record close on Wall
Street.


"Local investors were cautious amid concerns that the Chinese
government may announce austerity measures before the week-long
holiday during the first week of May," he said.


China Mobile closed down 2.10 or 2.8 percent at 72.8.


Other blue chips were mixed, with HSBC gaining 0.40 at 145.0,
Cheung Kong up 0.30 at 101.7, Hutchison down 0.05 at 75.9 and
Bank of China losing 0.01 at 3.97.


Wong noted that interest in China financial stocks remains firm
following largely positive results and ahead of the listing of
mid-sized lender China CITIC Bank this Friday.


China Construction Bank was up 0.03 at 4.91, ICBC was up 0.01 at
4.34, and China Merchants Bank up 0.46 at 19.7, while BoComm lost
0.06 at 8.39.


Among local banks, Hang Seng Bank was up 0.30 at 111.80, Bank of
East Asia was up 0.8 at 48.45 and BOC Hong Kong rose 0.02 at
19.5.


Properties were higher, with Sun Hung Kai Properties up 0.40 at
92.0, Sino Land up 0.26 at 16.88 and New World Development up
0.28 at 18.16.


China Telecom lost 0.08 at 3.83 after reporting a 3.9 percent
rise in first quarter net profit to 6.14 billion yuan from a year
earlier.


PetroChina was down 0.03 at 9.01 while Chalco gained 0.07 to
8.93.

