

The fat content in fast food meals sold by the same chain can
vary widely in different countries, with Eastern Europe topping
the fat-level charts, Danish researchers told an international
obesity conference here on Monday.


It is a "myth" that fast food meals are the same around the
world, researchers from the University of Copenhagen concluded in
a study presented at the the European Congress on Obesity in
Budapest.


The study, which looked at French fries and fried chicken at
McDonald's and Kentucky Fried Chicken (KFC) outlets in 35
countries over the past two years, pointed in particular to high
levels of industrially-produced trans fatty acids in Eastern
European KFC restaurants.


In Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Hungary and Poland, levels of
such fats reached between 29 and 34 percent of fat content.


This compared with less than two percent at KFC outlets in India,
Russia and Spain.


"The results show that the same product by the same provider can
vary in fat calorie content by more than 40 percent and in trans
fat content by several orders of magnitude," the researchers, led
by Professor Steen Stender, said in a statement.


The study also found variations at McDonald's, with trans fat
levels of 20 percent registered in Oman compared with 15-16
percent in London.


Professor Philip James, the chair of the International Obesity
TaskForce, pointed out that there had been "a steady stream of
papers showing how these fats interfered with the normal
metabolism of the essential oils and altered cholesterol blood
levels disadvantageously."


"So it is alarming that the food industry has paid so little
attention to this and still includes trans fats in such
astonishingly great amounts in fast foods," he added.


Denmark introduced a ban on trans fats in 2004.


The study was presented before 2,500 specialists attending the
Budapest conference.

