

An Israeli man appeared in an Australian court Monday charged
with attempting to smuggle 113 kilogrammes of ecstasy with a
street value of 37 million dollars (30 million US), police said.


The 46-year-old was arrested after the ecstasy powder was found
stuffed inside 172 tennis ball containers concealed in solar hot
water systems imported from Israel.


"Depending on the purity of the powder, which will be determined
by further forensic testing, it could have been used to
manufacture at least 1.2 million tablets of ecstasy," Australian
Federal Policeman David Stewart said.


"This means the street value of this powder could be worth more
than 37 million dollars," he said.


Benjamin Rosenfeld, who had travelled to Australia for just a few
weeks, was arrested Sunday in the eastern state of New South
Wales after customs officers last month detected the drugs in a
shipment sent to Sydney.


Customs officers spotted the cans during an x-ray of the
container and substituted another substance for the party drug
before allowing it to be delivered to a Sydney warehouse.


"It was a sophisticated attempt to smuggle drugs into the country
which has been foiled by a combination of expertise and
technology," said Customs' New South Wales regional director Gail
Batman.


Rosenfeld appeared in court in the town of Coff's Harbour charged
with importing a commercial quantity of MDMA, or ecstasy, into
Australia and with attempting to possess a commercial quantity of
the drug.


If convicted, the suspect, who was remanded in custody and did
not seek bail, faces a maximum penalty of an 825,000 dollar
(684,000 US) fine and life imprisonment.


Stewart said other arrests overseas were possible and that
Australian police were working with foreign authorities on the
case.


"We don't often see MDMA powder of this scale and magnitude, but
certainly it is on the increase as criminal syndicates
internationally look at new opportunities in the market," he told
reporters.

