

German Chancellor Angela Merkel said she expected few concessions
from Washington on climate protection at an EU-US summit next
week, in an interview published Monday.


"I do not think the US will adopt the European climate protection
goals," she told the daily Muenchener Merkur.


But she said there was growing awareness in the United States and
within the US government that reducing greenhouse gas emissions
was crucial.


"I have been pleased at international meetings to see a growing
feeling for a common, global responsibility (for climate
protection)," she said.


"On some issues, the US is even surpassing European targets, for
example in the use of biofuels."


Germany currently holds the rotating presidency of both the Group
of Eight club of rich nations and the European Union.


The US ambassador to the EU, Boyden Gray, said earlier this month
that the gap between the United States and EU over how to tackle
global warming is narrower than many might think.


"Both sides of the Atlantic now agree it's the same and it's a
constructive change... I don't see that much difference," he
said.


Gray was responding to criticism from European Environment
Commissioner Stavros Dimas, who tartly compared EU plans to cut
greenhouse-gas emissions through ever-tighter, legally binding
curbs with the US voluntary approach.


The EU championed the Kyoto Protocol to reduce harmful emissions
after it was abandoned by the United States in March 2001.


But the treaty has been almost crippled by the absence of the
United States, which alone accounts for about a quarter of all
this pollution.


Exploratory negotiations are under way for determining what
treaty should follow Kyoto after the accord expires at the end of
2012.


Germany helped broker an agreement last month under which the 27
EU member states will reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20
percent from 1990 levels over the next 13 years.

