

President Joseph Kabila of the Democratic Republic of Congo
Monday said he was committed to working with the United Nations,
which has deployed 17,600 peacekepeers in the central African
nation.


"The president has said that it's important to continue working
together with the United Nations ... in realizing the goals of
development, the provision of basic services to the people," UN
Deputy Secretary General Asha-Rose Migiro told reporters after
meeting Kabila.


Migiro said the president also underscored that his government
would work with the world body in "dealing with issues of
security sector reforms that involves the army, the police and
the judiciary system."


"The president has also assured us of his resolve to continue the
process of democratisation in the country, to strengthen the
various organs in the parliament so that they can play their
role," she said.


Last year an arduous three-year post-war transition culminated in
the massive central African country's first democratic vote since
independence in 1960.


During a visit to Kinshasa in January, United Nations Secretary
General Ban Ki- moon hailed the progress made in DRC, but
emphasised that "much more needs to be done."


Tensions have been running high in the country since government
troops clashed with opposition leader and failed presidential
candidate Jean-Pierre Bemba's guard last month, leaving between
200 and 500 people dead.


Following the clashes, which were sparked by plans to integrate
Bemba's guards into the army, his opposition Congolese Liberation
Movement (MLC) walked out of parliament over security concerns.


Bemba has since flown to Portugal, officially for medical
treatment.


Migiro said that the UN, for its part, had pledged its
"continuing support and solidarity with the government and the
people of the DRC".


The UN force in the DRC, MONUC, comprises 17,600 soldiers and is
currently the organisation's biggest peacekeeping mission.

