

A stone set out for Virginia Tech killer Cho Seung-Hui in a
memorial for all 33 people who died in last week's shooting
rampage disappeared overnight before classes at the traumatized
campus resumed Monday.


The five-pound (two kilograms) granite block, one of 33 set out
in a semi-circle and piled with flowers, letters and mementos was
still part of the tribute at the campus center late Sunday, but
had vanished by the time school reopened.


South Korean-born, US-raised Cho shot dead 27 fellow students and
five lecturers before and during morning classes on April 16,
forever branding this university in the southwestern Virginia
farm country as the site of the worst school shooting in US
history.


The stone appeared earlier in the week at the memorial as the
university struggled to come to grips with his bloody rampage.


Left behind Monday in Cho's position at the memorial were a pile
of wilting roses and carnations, burnt-down candles and days-old
letters forgiving Cho and expressing sympathy with his family.


"Seung Hui, I hope that if I ever meet someone like you, I will
have the courage and strength to reach out," said one signed
David.


"We forgive you because we've been forgiven," offered a Christian
who signed only MEQ.


"To the family of Cho Seung-Hui: We know that you are hurting
too," said another.


But one letter to Cho, whose angry, hateful and violent pictures
and statements that were shown on television after the massacre,
was more defiant:


"Cho: you greatly underestimated our strength, courage and
compassion. You may have broken our hearts but you have not
broken our spirits," wrote a person who only signed "Erin T."


Cho, whom professors and police had viewed as mentally disturbed,
fatally shot himself at the end of the rampage, leaving behind a
collection of menacing photos and videotaped diatribes.

