

Voting for Syria's parliament ended on Monday with a widespread
lack of enthusiasm for the two-day polls which opposition
activists urged supporters to boycott.


Nearly 12 million Syrians were eligible to vote, according to the
official SANA news agency, which also reported that 2,500
candidates stood for the 250 seats in the assembly. Results were
expected to be announced on Tuesday.


The vote took place "in total freedom and transparency," SANA
said on Monday, without giving turnout figures for the first
day's vote on Sunday.


Residents appeared split on whether the election, totally lacking
in suspense for most people, would bring any change.


Of the 250 seats, 167 are reserved for the ruling National
Progressive Front (NPF) coalition, led by Assad's Baath party.
The party itself is guaranteed 131 seats, or 52 percent of the
total.


The other 83 seats are allocated to so-called independent
candidates "close to the authorities," according to lawyer Hassan
Abdel-Azim, spokesman for six banned, but largely tolerated,
parties operating under the umbrella National Democratic Rally
(NDR).


Abdel-Azim said it was "pointless to take part in an election
whose results are known in advance... The NPF will come out the
winner," as it has done in all organised elections since 1973.


Even the official Tishrin daily said last week that Syrians "have
lost their enthusiasm for the parliamentary elections."


Interior Minister Bassam Abdel-Majid, in a statement on state
television, had urged Syrians to turn out in force: "Your
participation is a contribution to consolidating democracy and
activating the role of parliament in drawing up decisions," he
said.


In a swipe at Washington, which had said Syria's election was
unlikely to be free and fair, an official Syrian newspaper said
Damascus had never needed "democratic" advice from abroad.


Late in 2005, opposition parties which are tolerated but have no
legal status launched an appeal for "democratic change" in Syria,
but the plea failed to bring positive action.


The following May, the authorities jailed 10 opposition figures
who had signed a statement seeking reform in the country's
relations with Lebanon, where Syria was the power-broker for
nearly three decades.


Among other demands, the opposition wants a modern law
authorising the creation of parties other than the Baath and its
allies, and abrogation of the state of emergency which has been
in force since 1963.

