

At least 12 people were killed and nine wounded Monday when rival
Somali clan members clashed in the southern port of Kismayo in a
leadership dispute, residents said.


The fighting erupted after Marehan clan gunmen attacked their
rivals from the Majerteen clan whom they suspected of stealing a
car from a Marehan police officer in Kismayo, about 500
kilometres (310 miles) south of Mogadishu.


But residents said the two clans were at loggerheads over the
governance of Kismayo.


The Marehan clan that has governed the town since 1999 has been
demanding a greater say in the running of Kismayo after they lost
control of the port town to the Majerteen clan early this year.


"At least four gunmen were killed and nine others were wounded in
a battle near the residence of a top military commander," Abdi
Mohamed Abdullahi, a militiaman, told AFP.


Doctors and residents said eight civilians were killed in the
fighting, the heaviest in the township in recent months.


"We have received the bodies of three civilians and as heavy
fighting continues we expect more casualties," a medical officer
said on condition of anonymity.


"Three other civilians were killed after they were hit by stray
bullets," said Hirsi Abdi, a resident.


Another resident Asha Mohamed said two bodies were also retrieved
from the scene of the violence.


Mohamed Hassan, a police officer, confirmed the fighting.


Inter-clan fighting is common in Somalia since the 1991 ouster of
dictator Mohamed Siad Barre touched off a deadly power struggle
that has defied numerous attempts to restore stability in the
country.


More than 200 civilians have also been killed in the capital in
six days of clashes between Ethiopian forces and Islamist
insurgents, who are opposed to the presence of the foreign troops
in the country.

