

China has agreed to allow Airbus Industries a 51 percent stake in
the manufacturer's first plane factory to be located outside of
Europe, state press said Monday.


The remaining 49 percent stake in the factory to be located in
Tianjin city 110 kilometres (68 miles) east of Beijing, will be
held by the newly formed Tianjin Zhongtian Aviation Industry
Investment Co, Xinhua news agency said.


The joint-venture aircraft assembly facility is currently slated
to begin operations in early 2009 and by 2011 hopes to be
producing four Airbus A320 planes a month, the report said.


Total investment is estimated at between eight and 10 billion
yuan (between one and 1.3 billion dollars), it added.


An agreement to build the plant was inked during a visit of
French President Jacques Chirac to China last October, with
Airbus insisting on a 51 percent stake in the project.


China's National Development and Reform Commission, the national
planning agency, approved the plans for the plant in June 2006,
but left commercial details to the companies involved.


Last month, the State Council, China's cabinet, announced that it
had approved a plan to build large passenger aircraft that can
carry more than 150 passengers and which are expected to compete
with Airbus and Boeing.


It was not immediately clear what role, if any, the new Airbus
plant would play in those plans.


A large part of the China investment for the Airbus plant would
come from two companies under the management of China Aviation
Industry Corp Two (AVIC Two), Xinhua said, citing AVIC Two
general manager Zhang Hongbiao.


The Tianjin Bonded Zone Investment Co and AVIC One, China's other
major state- owned airplane manufacturer, would be the major
Chinese partners, it added.

