

A Sudanese man armed with a knife tried to hijack a plane flying
from Tripoli to Khartoum with 284 people on board on Friday but
was arrested after landing in the Sudanese capital, police said.


The hijacker, Sayed Fallun Sayed, 39, had just been deported from
Libya and tried to divert the plane to South Africa, the police
said.


"The crew behaved in a professional and calm way and took the
necessary security measures, which allowed the plane to land in
Khartoum as scheduled.


"Security forces then managed to overpower the hijacker," the
police statement said, adding that an initial investigation
suggested the man "was suffering psychological problems."


The statement did not say why Sayed had been expelled from Libya,
but the North African country has been deporting people who are
working there without the necessary papers.


Police said the Sudan Airways Airbus had 273 passengers and 11
crew on board.


A Sudanese official told AFP the hijacker had wanted to stop in
Khartoum to refuel and had given himself up after three hours of
negotiations


There was no immediate information on whether the hijacker had
demands beyond wanting to go to South Africa.


On January 24, an armed hijacker forced a Sudanese airliner
heading for the troubled Darfur region to land in N'Djamena.


The Sudanese, who gave his name as Mohamed Abdelatif Mahamat, let
all 95 passengers and eight crew on the Air West flight leave the
jetliner unharmed after it landed in the Chadian capital, then
gave himself up.


He had said he wanted to draw attention to the Darfur conflict
and accused the Khartoum government of "exterminating the
population" of the region in west Sudan, which is swept by ethnic
warfare and a humanitarian crisis.

