

German boxer Henry Maske is set to make history on Saturday when
he steps back into the ring a decade after his last fight.


Maske, 43, will challenge American champion Virgil Hill, also 43,
for the WBA World Cruiserweight title in a re-match of their
fight on November 23, 1996 when Hill beat the German to unify the
WBA and IBF Light Heavyweight Titles.


Having lost his IBF crown, Maske retired after the fight to run a
chain of McDonald's franchises and reflect on his glory days
having being crowned Olympic champion after winning Middleweight
gold at Seoul 1988.


But Maske has stepped out of retirement and will fight again at
Munich's Olympic Hall on Saturday, the scene of the pairs last
meeting ten years ago.


This time the WBA Cruiserweight title is at stake which Hill won
from previously undefeated Russian Valery Brudov in January last
year.


Some critics have branded the fight a 'farce' with Maske's
chances virtually written off, but the former champion says he is
in prime shape.


"Our sport is unfairly criticised sometimes, but I can say I have
more experience, more rest and I am more professional than at any
previous time in my career," said Maske.


After ten years away from his sport, Maske admitted he has had
doubts about how he will perform against a current world champion
and revealed his worst nightmare.


"The first blow from Hill hits and I am knocked out. It could
happen, but I have a plan and if I can move him around the ring,
I will win," he said.


By stepping back into the ring, Maske's 3,748 days - which
translates to ten years and 96 days - between fights beats the
previous record of George Foreman, who returned to the ring in
1987 having spent nine year and 356 days away.


But there is hope for the German veteran - Foreman went on to win
the world heavyweight title in November 1994 and in doing so
became the oldest-ever world champion at 45.

