

American Ryan Lochte ended teammate Aaron Peirsol's six-year
unconquered run in the 200-metres backstroke with a world record
victory at the world championships on Friday.


Lochte came into the final as the fastest qualifier but had never
beaten three- time world champion Peirsol in a final of a major
meet.


It looked like it would be no different as Peirsol led at the
50m, 100m and 150m turns and was under world record pace only for
Lochte to finish the better.


Not only did Lochte beat his celebrated teammate but he also took
away his world record with a new time of one minute 54.32,
chipping 0.12secs off Peirsol's record.


"Man. I still don't think it's true. I'm in shock," Lochte said.
"At the last 50m I looked up at the scoreboard to see where I
was.


"I probably shouldn't have done that, but when I did I saw I was
right there with Aaron and I just kicked.


"I wasn't really concentrating on the world record, I was just
concentrating on finishing."


Peirsol, who had been unbeaten in the event since the 2001
Fukuoka world championships, was second in 1:54.80.


He was aiming to win the world title for a record-equalling
fourth time in a row, but goes home with just the 100m backstroke
gold medal. He also has chance of more as a member of the US
4x100m medley relay on Sunday.


It has been a tremendous meet for 22-year-old Lochte, who has
also won silver medals in the 100m backstroke and 200m individual
medley.


"It's been a while since I had a really solid race. I felt like I
should have come out on top but it was a good race nonetheless,"
said Peirsol.


Austria's Markus Rogan was third in the final in 1:56.02.

