

Food safety standards are rising in Beijing but visitors to next
year's Olympics still risk exposure to contaminated products,
officials said here Friday.


Outbreaks of food poisoning affect 300 million people in China
every year, according to an Asian Development Bank report.


But stricter testing and broader food safety monitoring
introduced ahead of the August 8-24 2008 Olymics have reduced the
dangers, officials said.


"There is no zero risk in terms of food poisoning," said Tang
Yunhua, director of information at Beijing's Food Safety
Administration.


"The dangers are there but our job is to minimise risk and we are
doing that for the Olympics."


Food security will be tight for athletes and officials at the
games. Round-the- clock guards will be on duty in Olympic
kitchens, food storage areas will be under video surveillance and
food transport vehicles will be fitted with global positioning
systems and secure food compartments.


White mice will be used to test food destined to be consumed by
the athletes.


Outside Olympic venues, however, the risks are greater, although
they are declining, according to Lu Tong, director of the
Beijing's Municipal Centre for Food Safety Monitoring.


"About 95 percent of the food tested by us meets standards laid
down by the government so we can say that overall the food safety
situation is pretty positive," he told journalists visiting his
lab.


Experts say Chinese-grown produce is often contaminated by
farmers using medicine, food additives and banned drugs like
anabolic steroids to improve their crops and livestock.


Last September 336 people fell sick in Shanghai after eating pork
contaminated with anabolic steroids.


Sales of turbot, a popular flatfish, were banned in parts of
eastern China after they were found to contain carcinogens from
antibiotics.


In Beijing 90 diners at one restaurant went to hospital suffering
from meningitis after eating snails infested by parasites.

