

Man Group, the world's biggest listed hedge fund, announced
Friday plans to demerge its brokerage unit, Man Financial, and
list it on the New York Stock Exchange, as it forecast in-line
annual profits.


Man Group, listed in London, said it aimed to sell a majority
stake in Man Financial during the third quarter of 2007, with the
net proceeds to be returned to shareholders.


The business would be renamed MF Global, to be led by Man
Financial's managing director, Kevin Davis.


Man Group chief executive Peter Clarke said splitting the
brokerage division from the core fund management operation "will
allow each business to focus even more effectively on their
separate growth strategies and take advantage of the significant
business development opportunities in each of their industries."


Analysts and investors have long predicted that Man would spin
off its brokerage unit in the hope the division would achieve a
higher market value as a standalone business.


"The IPO news is pretty much what people were expecting,"
Investec analyst Daniel Havercroft said. "Now the games can begin
in terms of what MF Global might be worth."


Havercroft estimated that the business would have a market value
of about 4.5 billion dollars (3.4 billion euros).


Man Group on Friday added that total group pretax profit for the
year to March 31 2007 would be in line with the current consensus
analyst forecast of 1.551 billion dollars, up 25 percent on the
previous year.


In late morning trade, the share price in Man Group fell 0.90
percent to 559.94 pence on London's FTSE 100 amid the lack of
surprise announcements.


The capital's leading share index dipped 0.24 percent to 6,309.10
points.

