

The dollar edged up against the euro and yen on Friday as the
market awaited a raft of US economic data and remained vigilant
amid growing tensions between Iran and Britain, traders said.


The euro fell to 1.3320 dollars in early European trading, from
1.3331 dollars late in New York on Thursday.


The dollar stood at 118.06 yen in European trade from 118.02 yen
late on Thursday.


Traders were awaiting publication Friday of second-tier US
economic data. The market expects the March Chicago PMI to show
another sub-50 reading, indicating the manufacturing activity in
the area is shrinking.


Meanwhile the core PCE -- the Fed's preferred inflation guide --
was forecast to show a rise to an annual rate of 2.4 percent in
February and comfirming US policymakers' concerns about higher
costs.


"The rise in oil prices is beginning to drag market derived
inflation expectation gauges higher in a meaningful fashion in
the US, Australia, the eurozone and to a lesser extent Japan,"
HBOS analyst Steve Pearson said.


"This will only serve to strengthen policymaker resolve to err on
the side of policy tightening at a time when markets are hoping
for a timely response should leading indicator data --
particularly in the US -- continue to soften," he added.


The week-old standoff between Britain and Iran over 15 British
naval detainees in the northern Gulf has sent oil prices to a
six-month high.


"Players remain cautious as there are many factors we have to
watch closely such as the Iran issue and the US economic
situation," said Masaki Fukui, senior market economist at Mizuho
Corporate Bank's forex division.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, rose to fresh 2007 highs above 66 dollars a
barrel on Friday as tensions over Iran's detention of British
military personnel increased.


Brent North Sea crude for May came close to surpassing 69 dollars
in London, a level it reached earlier in the week.


The dollar had meanwhile turned in a mixed performance in US
trade on Thursday as an upward revision to estimates of US fourth
quarter growth failed to ease market concerns about economic
weakness.


The US economy expanded at a 2.5 percent annualised pace in the
fourth quarter of 2006, a bit faster than earlier estimates, the
Commerce Department said.


But analysts cautioned that more tepid growth was likely ahead as
the economy takes a hit from a slumping real estate market.


The euro was changing hands at 1.3320 dollars, against 1.3331
dollars on Thursday, 157.22 yen (157.41), 0.6808 pounds (0.6792)
and 1.6248 Swiss francs (1.6230).


The dollar stood at 118.06 yen (118.02) and 1.2197 Swiss francs
(1.2170).


The pound was being traded at 1.9571 dollars (1.9620).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold rose to 663.25
dollars per ounce, from 661 dollars late on Thursday.

