

The body responsible for the global coordination of the
Internet's system of unique identifiers on Friday rejected plans
to establish a new ".XXX" domain for racy or sexually explicit
websites.


The Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN)
said an ".XXX domain" would not resolve the issue of how to
protect "vulnerable members of the community".


ICANN would also be obligated "to acquire a responsibility
related to content and conduct," it said in a statement after a
board meeting.


"This decision was the result of very careful scrutiny and
consideration of all the arguments," ICANN Chairman Vint Cerf
said, adding: "That consideration has led a majority of the Board
to believe that the proposal should be rejected."


ICANN is an internationally organized, public benefit non-profit
body responsible for the global coordination of the Internet's
system of unique identifiers. These include domain names (like
.org, .museum and country codes like .UK), as well as the
addresses used in a variety of Internet protocols.


Computers use these identifiers to reach each other over the
Internet.


Two US senators last year proposed US legislation that would
establish the new ".XXX" domain.


The bill proposed by senators Mark Pryor and Max Baucus, both
Democrats, called upon the US Department of Commerce to exclude
sexually charged content from established website domain names
such as .gov, .com, .org, .net, and .edu.


Baucus said that a .XXX domain would help parents use filtering
software to keep children from accessing pornographic sites, and
would help prevent hapless Internet users from inadvertently
stumbling onto sexually-explicit websites that they would prefer
not to see.

