

Manufacturers of the Parkinson's disease drug pergolide have
agreed to pull it from the US market because it increases the
risk of serious heart valve damage, US drug regulators said.


The products being withdrawn are Permax, marketed by Valeant
Pharmaceuticals, and two generic versions manufactured by the
pharmaceutical companies Par and Teva, the US Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) said.


Pergolide is used in combination with two other drugs to manage
tremors and slowness of movement.


"Two new studies showed that patients with Parkinson's disease
who were treated with pergolide had an increased chance of
serious damage to their heart valves when compared to patients
who did not receive the drug," the FDA said in a public health
advisory posted online Thursday.


The FDA warned patients not to abruptly stop taking the drug as
doing so can be dangerous. Patients should contact their doctors
to discuss alternative treatments, it said.


Two New England Journal of Medicine studies confirm previous
findings associating pergolide with valve regurgitation, a
condition in which valves do not close tightly, allowing blood to
flow backward across the valve, the FDA said.


"In light of this additional post-market safety information, the
companies that manufacture and sell pergolide will stop shipping
pergolide for distribution and, in cooperation with FDA, will
withdraw the products from the market," the FDA said in a
statement.


"The removal of pergolide products is not expected to adversely
affect patient care because of the alternative therapies
available," it said.


An estimated 12,000 patients were given pergolide prescriptions
in the United States last year, the FDA said.

