

British Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett said on Friday she saw
no sign that Iran was seeking to solve a growing week-old crisis
by releasing 15 British naval personnel.


"We have been looking for a way out from the very beginning. I
wish I saw any sign that this is what Iran is trying to do,"
Beckett told journalists on the sidelines of a meeting of EU
foreign ministers in Germany.


Beckett was speaking after Iran sent a diplomatic note to British
authorities, saying the British naval personnel had committed an
"illegal act", but did not call for an apology.


The minister said: "We are taking it seriously, it is the first
formal approach we have had from the Iranians and we wish to
respond to it expeditiously and formally."


The note, released by Iran's embassy in London, said Iran
"protests strongly against this illegal act in violating Iranian
territorial waters (and) underlines the responsibility of the
British government for the consequences."


German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier, hosting the meet
in Bremen, northern Germany, said EU nations would send a message
of solidarity with Britain.


"We will send a signal of solidarity on this issue and we will
try to find the language which conveys this," said Steinmeier,
whose country holds the rotating EU presidency.


Iran says the 14 men and one woman were detained Iran last Friday
after they entered Iranian waters in the northern Gulf.


Britain has repeatedly refused to apologise, insisting they were
well within Iraqi territorial waters.


Iran aired footage Friday of a male British sailor "confessing"
to entering Iranian waters illegally. Britain condemned the
broadcast as "outrageous."


Prime Minister Tony Blair, meanwhile, said Britain wanted Iran to
be "increasingly isolated" in the stand-off.

