

India successfully tested on Friday a nuclear-capable ballistic
missile from a naval ship near its east coast, the defence
ministry said.


The domestically developed Dhanus (Bow) missile, with a strike-
range of 250 kilometres (155 miles), was fired from the Indian
Naval Ship Subhadra in the Bay of Bengal off the coast of Orissa,
a defence spokesman said.


The Dhanus is a naval variant of India's surface-to-surface
Prithvi (Earth) missile.


The missile, 8.56 meters (28 feet) long and one metre (3.2 feet)
wide, can carry a 500 kilogram (1,100 pound) conventional or
nuclear warhead. It uses liquid propellants and has a launch
weight of 4,600 kilograms (10,000 pounds).


On Thursday, India successfully tested an air-to-air missile for
the third time in four days, defence officials said.


India's nuclear rival, Pakistan, tested its own nuclear-capable
radar-dodging cruise missile Hatf VII Babur with a range of 700
kilometres (435 miles) on March 22.


Dhanus is part of India's Integrated Guided Missile Development
Programme (IGMDP) begun in 1983 to develop and produce a wide
range of missiles for surface-to-surface and surface-to-air
roles.


The Prithvi was the first missile developed as part of programme.


The Dhanus test came a week after neighbouring Pakistan test-
fired a nuclear- capable radar-dodging cruise missile with a
range of 700 kilometres.


The neighbours have routinely conducted missile tests since
carrying out tit- for-tat nuclear blasts in May 1998.


Tensions between the rivals have eased since 2004 when they
launched a peace process aimed at ending six decades of hostility
and resolving their dispute over the Himalayan territory of
Kashmir, the cause of two of their three wars.

