

China began final assembly Friday of its first home-made
commercial jet, which when completed at the end of this year will
bring the nation closer to its ambition of becoming an aerospace
power.


Built by the China Aviation Industry Corp, the country's biggest
military aircraft maker, the nation unveiled the regional
airliner at a ceremony in its home plant in Shanghai.


"The ARJ-21 will come off the production line by December and
start the flight trials in March 2008," an official with builders
Shanghai Aircraft Manufacturing Factory told AFP on Thursday.


The small passenger plane that seats 70 to 90, is expected to
enter the commercial market in the third quarter of 2009,
according to previous state press reports.


Since launching the project in December 2003, the wholly state-
run aviation group has received 71 orders for the ARJ-21, all
from domestic airlines, the Shanghai Daily said in a report
published Thursday.


Production capacity is expected to be about 50 planes a year.


China's government announced last week plans to build a large
passenger aircraft which could eventually take on the world's two
dominant commercial jet makers Boeing and Airbus.


China has repeatedly stated it wants to lessen its reliance on
Boeing of the United States and Europe's Airbus, by building its
own planes.


Nevertheless about 40 percent of the AJR-21's parts are made by
foreign manufacturers, such as General Electric, Honeywell and
Parker Hannifin.


The AJR-21 seen as the first step in China becoming an aerospace
power, a new company with foreign investment will be formed,
entrusted with research and development, press reports said.

