

A US Treasury official was still in Beijing on Friday after
several days of meetings to resolve a complex financial impasse
that has held up North Korean nuclear talks, the US Embassy said.


US officials have been tight-lipped about the talks between a
delegation led by Daniel Glaser, the deputy assistant secretary
for terrorist financing and financial crimes, and Chinese
officials.


But an embassy spokeswoman told AFP that Glaser was still in the
Chinese capital six days after arriving despite an earlier
prediction by a top US negotiator that the issue would be sorted
out quickly.


The meetings were over how to arrange the return to North Korea
of 25 million dollars frozen in a Macau bank due to accusations
of money laundering and counterfeiting.


No details were available on Glaser's schedule, the Embassy
spokeswoman said.


Glaser has held various talks with officials from China's foreign
ministry, the central bank and the country's banking industry
regulator, his spokeswoman said earlier in the week.


He also held at least one meeting with North Korean officials.


Talks in Beijing on implementing a new North Korean nuclear
disarmament accord broke down last week after the reclusive
Stalinist state refused to continue negotiating until the 25
million dollars was returned.


The money was supposed to be transferred quickly to a North
Korean account with the Bank of China but the state-owned lender
has reportedly refused to accept the money.


The chief US envoy to the six-nation talks, Christopher Hill,
said in Washington on Monday that he expected the banking issue
to be resolved in a couple of days.

