

Iranian state television aired footage on Friday of a British
sailor "confessing" he and his colleagues had illegally entered
Iranian waters, in a broadcast condemned as "outrageous" in
London.


Both Arabic-language Al-Alam television and Farsi-language Irin
showed the interview with the sailor in which he said "I deeply
apologise for entering your waters."


"My name is Nathan Thomas Summers... I was arrested on March 23
in Iranian waters, we trespassed without permission. Since we
have been arrested in Iran our treatment has been very friendly,
they took care of us very well."


"I'm grateful that no harm has come to us, I would like to
apologise for entering your waters without any permission," the
sailor said.


"I know that happened back in 2004, and our government promised
that wouldn't happen again, again I deeply apologise for entering
your waters," he said, referring to a previous incident when Iran
held British seaman for three days.


Footage of the interview was interspersed with images of the
sailor sitting with two of his captured colleagues, including the
only woman sailor, smiling, and with bowls of fruit and flowers
in front of them.


On Wednesday, the Arabic language station had shown footage of
the woman, Faye Turney, also saying that they had trespassed into
Iranian waters.


Britain reacted furiously to the latest footage, with a Foreign
Office spokesman saying: "Using our military personnel for
purposes of propaganda like this is outrageous."

