

The European Commission has provided Moscow with information that
should allay its concerns about the safety of Polish food exports
and allow for a Russian embargo to be lifted, a spokesman said
Friday.


EU officials have struggled to ease Russian concerns in its
attempts to resolve the dispute which has threatened to grow into
a broader EU-wide embargo and has stalled talks on a new
cooperation accord between Brussels and Moscow.


In its latest attempt to appease Moscow's concerns, the European
Union's executive arm said it had sent "a comprehensive reply" to
questions from Russian authorities following their recent
inspections in Poland.


"The Commission is convinced that all the questions raised by the
Russian authorities have been addressed in a comprehensive way
which should enable the Russian authorities to lift their ban on
imports of meat and plant products from Poland," said spokesman
Philip Tod.


Tod said that EU Health Commissioner Markos Kyprianou would hold
talks about the issue with Russian Agriculture Minister Alexei
Gordeyev in mid April at a yet to be determined date and place.


Russia imposed an embargo on Polish meat in November 2005,
alleging fraud in the implementation of safety standards by
Polish authorities.


Poland argues that Moscow is playing politics because of
differences with the conservative government in Warsaw.


Angered by the embargo, Poland has since last November blocked
the launch of talks between Russia and the EU on a new broad
economic cooperation agreement aimed among other things at
securing a reliable flow to Europe from Russia's massive oil and
gas fields.


Russia had also threatened to broaden the embargo to ban EU
animal products from another five or six EU nations unless the
Europeans provide quality control papers for exports outside of
the EU by the end of March.

