

Ivory Coast's main opposition and rebel groups on Friday said
they were deeply satisfied with the nomination of rebel leader
Guillaume Soro as prime minister as part of a peace deal.


The group of main opposition parties and the New Forces rebels
known as the G7 expresses "its full support" for Soro and is
ready to help him carry out his mission, said a statement sent to
AFP.


The peace agreement signed on March 4 between Soro and arch-rival
President Laurent Gbagbo could "put an end to the suffering of
the Ivory Coast people and open the path to true national
reconciliation," it added.


"The G7 leadership expresses its deep satisfaction with the
nomination of Mr Soro Kigbafori Guillaume as prime minister of
Ivory Coast," said the statement which was signed by G7 president
Alphonse Djedje Mady.


The accord to restart the stalled peace process called for a new
government within five weeks for the divided west African
country.


The conflict in Ivory Coast, a one-time bastion of stability in
west Africa, dates from 2002, when a Soro-led failed coup against
Gbagbo left rebels holding the north of the cocoa-rich country.


The new agreement also seeks the gradual removal of a so-called
zone of confidence in the middle of the country and the eventual
withdrawal of outside peacekeeping forces provided by the United
Nations and France.


The Ivorian peace accord envisages a government of 33 cabinet
ministers, of which 18 portfolios will go to Soro's New Forces
group.


Gbagbo said Tuesday that the new government would be in place
"this week or next week at the latest."


"The war is finished and the crisis is finished. All the
agreements have been signed," Gbagbo said, adding that once the
government was in place he would immediately embark on a tour of
the "occupied zones" in the north where citizens "have not seen
their chief for a long time."


Soro is to replace Charles Konan Banny, who was approved as prime
minister by the United Nations Security Council in 2005. However,
he struggled to carry out his task of pursuing the peace process
and moving toward new elections.


Konan Banny said Monday that he had succeeded in his mission by
"restoring trust" between the main players.


The New Forces had been demanding that Soro become prime minister
since late 2005. He was a minister for reconstruction in Konan
Banny's government.


The UN Security Council and the European Union have welcomed
Soro's appointment.

