

Thirty-five officials have been sacked in China's coal mining
heartland after three accidents there this month left 32 people
dead, state press reported Friday.


The officials in Shanxi province were sacked for a variety of
offences that included covering up the tragedies, allowing the
mines to operate without licenses and permitting lax work safety
practices, the Xinhua news agency said.


"Greedy, lawless mine owners are not the only ones to blame for
the accidents. A lack of supervision and malpractice by officials
is also a cause," Xinhua said, citing government sources in
Linfen, a coal-mining town in Shanxi.


The 35 officials who lost their jobs worked in the work safety,
coal industry and land resources departments of various Shanxi
local governments, as well as police bureaus, Xinhua said.


In the most recent sackings, seven officials were removed for
their links to an gas blast at a mine in Linfen on Wednesday that
killed 26 people, according to Xinhua.


Local safety authorities said previously the mine's production
licence had expired and that it was running at nearly double its
authorised annual capacity of 90,000 tonnes of coal.


The other officials were sacked for their roles in two other
accidents in Shanxi on March 14 and 16 that left six people dead.


However the report failed to mention another explosion in Shanxi
on March 18 that killed 21 coal miners.


China's coal mines are regarded as the most dangerous in the
world, with 4,746 workers dying in 2,845 accidents last year,
according to official figures.


Independent labour groups put the death toll at as many as 20,000
miners annually, as mine operators often cover up accidents to
avoid costly shutdowns and fines.

