

Hong Kong share prices closed 0.11 percent lower Friday, though
off their lows, as profit-taking eased toward the end of trade,
but with caution remaining over rising crude oil prices, dealers
said.


They said select property and financial stocks began drawing some
interest again and helped limit the market's overall losses.


The Hang Seng Index closed down 20.85 points at 19,800.93, off a
low of 19,705.56 and a high of 19,880.26. Turnover was 45.8
billion Hong Kong dollars (5.87 billion US).


The property sub-index was down 74.99 points or 0.32 percent at
23,727.42 and the financial sector down 51.43 points or 0.17
percent at 30,947.56.


"There was a bit of profit-taking pressure today following gains
yesterday, with some investors also trimming positions ahead of
the weekend," Kenny Tang, associate director at Tung Tai
Securities, said.


"I believe the market is worried about further consolidation in
the week ahead and are sidelined by uncertainties over the
performance of markets overseas," he added.


He said focus next week will be on fresh US economic data and
individual local companies scheduled to report their earnings
results for last year.


Cheung Kong was up 0.10 at 98.90, after ending the morning flat,
while Sun Hung Kai was up 0.35 at 90.40, reversing earlier loss.


Tang said the market will also monitor crude oil prices in the
near term amid mounting tension in the Middle East following the
detention of British sailors in Iran.


PetroChina was up 0.16 at 9.27, while Sinopec was down 0.04 at
6.61.


CNOOC Ltd gained 0.02 at 6.85 after the oil company reported a
22.1 percent rise in 2006 net profit to 30.93 billion yuan (4
billion US) on the back of increased oil output and higher crude
prices.


Hang Seng Bank was down 0.50 at 111.0, Bank of East Asia rose
0.20w at 45.45, and BOC Hong Kong was down 0.04 at 18.94.

