

Europe's main stock markets mostly fell in late morning trade on
Friday as oil prices remained high and amid fresh takeover
announcements, dealers said.


London's FTSE 100 slid by 0.30 percent to 6,305.40 points and in
Paris the CAC 40 slipped 0.20 percent to 5,620.05 points.


Frankfurt's DAX 30 index of leading shares edged up 0.08 percent
to 6,902.87 points, helped by a jump to the share price of
Commerzbank.


The DJ Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone blue chip shares dropped
0.30 percent to 4,167.58 points, while the euro stood at 1.3311
dollars.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, rose to fresh 2007 highs above 66 dollars a
barrel on Friday as tensions over Iran's detention of British
military personnel increased.


Brent North Sea crude for May came close to surpassing 69 dollars
in London. Higher oil prices increase companies' costs but they
benefit energy groups, who see their profits rise.


In London, the share price of life insurer Resolution led the
blue-chip casualties, tumbling 5.10 percent to 614.5 pence after
the group said talks with various parties over its possible sale
had been terminated.


Resolution said it would continue to assess possible acquisitions
and business combinations that would not constitute an offer for
the company.


Alliance Boots managed a climb of 0.63 percent to 1,033.5 pence
after Europe's biggest pharmacy chain received an increased offer
from US investment group KKR worth 10.06 billion pounds (14.72
billion euros, 19.61 billion dollars) in cash.


KKR, which is tabling a joint bid with Alliance Boots' executive
deputy chairman Stefano Pessina, has offered 1,040 pence per
share.


Alliance Boots on March 12 snubbed an offer worth 1,000 pence per
share. This time, however, the pharmacy group has agreed to open
its books.


British Airways meanwhile slumped 2.21 percent to 487 pence, hurt
by the prospect of higher fuel costs. BA meanwhile owns 10
percent of Spanish national carrier Iberia, which on Friday
received a request for information from US private equity firm
Texas Pacific Group which is considering a takeover bid.


Iberia signalled last week it was ready to look at a merger, with
consolidation of the industry expected to gather pace after the
EU-US deal to open up transatlantic air travel.


The TPG bid would value Iberia at 3.60 euros a share.


Iberia was the biggest faller on Madrid's IBEX 35 index early
Friday, dropping 1.75 percent to 3.93 euros. The IBEX 35 index
declined 0.34 percent to 14,556.30 points.


Elswhere Man Group, the world's biggest listed hedge fund, lost
1.15 percent to 558.5 pence after an expected announcement to
demerge its brokerage unit, Man Financial, and list it on the New
York Stock Exchange.


London-listed Man Group also forecast in-line annual profits.


In Frankfurt, Commerzbank jumped 3.52 percent to 33.56 euros, a
day after announcing it was examining all strategic options for
its French asset management unit CCR.


Wall Street shares ended higher Thursday after an upward revision
to US economic growth helped ease fears about a slowdown and
prompted bargain hunting despite a big rise in oil prices,
dealers said.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed up 0.37 percent to
12,348.75 points, recouping a chunk of its losses from the prior
session.


The tech-dominated Nasdaq composite rose a fractional 0.03
percent at 2,417.88 points and the broad-market Standard and
Poor's 500 increased 0.37 percent to finish at 1,422.53.


Ahead of the opening, the government released data showing the US
economy grew at a 2.5 percent pace in the fourth quarter, a bit
faster than earlier estimates of 2.2 percent growth.


In Asia, the Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading
shares closed up 0.14 percent to 17,287.65 on Friday, lifted by
Wall Street overnight, dealers said.


Hong Kong's key Hang Seng Index fell 0.11 percent to 19,800.93
points with caution remaining over rising crude oil prices.

