

Malaysia is ready to host a Formula One Grand Prix night race
next year, the head of the nation's top international track said
Friday, as drivers backed the move.


"Yes, I don't think it is a problem to host night racing in
2008," Mokhzani Mahathir, chairman of the Sepang International
Circuit (SIC), told AFP.


Formula One supremo Bernie Ecclestone has spoken of including
night races on the F1 schedule as early as next season to boost
TV audiences.


Top drivers including world champion Fernando Alonso have opposed
the plan, citing safety fears.


But others testing here gave their qualified support.


"For me it is okay as long as there is enough lighting," Ferrari
driver Kimi Raikkonen told reporters.


His team-mate Felipe Massa said: "As long as we can see and as
long as it is safe, why not?"


Mokhzani, son of former premier Mahathir Mohamad, said governing
body FIA has to lay down lighting guidelines before the plan can
become reality.


"If they set the standards, then we can work on it. Physically it
is not a big deal for us at Sepang Circuit. We are a dedicated
circuit. FIA has to set the standards for brightness and safety,"
he said.


Mokhzani had earlier said circuit officials were already in talks
with consultants on what lights could be used without creating
glare or shadow.


The night-race plan earlier ran into opposition from drivers,
including Alonso.


"We launched the car in Valencia at night and it was extremely
difficult to see the road," Alonso said.


"For me, it's very hard to believe that they will have strong
enough lights to see okay to have a grand prix."


Australian driver Mark Webber is to test-drive a proposed night
circuit in neighbouring Singapore, which does not currently host
a grand prix, on Saturday.

