

The Czech state and Roman Catholic Church have reached a
compromise in an almost 14-year ownership tug-of-war over one of
Prague's most famous landmarks, the two sides said Friday.


After a bitter wrangle battled out through several courts, the
Church and president's office announced they would now jointly
manage St Vitus' Cathedral, although its outright ownership is
still contested.


Under the agreement, "the operation of the cathedral will be
assured by the metropolitan chapter (local church authority) in
collaboration with the management of Prague castle", or Czech
president's office, the joint declaration said.


The 14th century cathedral, which forms part of the Prague castle
complex towering over the city, was placed under state management
in 1954 by the communist regime which continued until 1989.


But in 2005, a local court decided that the Catholic Church's
property rights had never been cancelled by the communists, a
ruling confirmed by an appeals court last year.


However, in February the Czech Supreme Court overturned those
decisions meaning the monument, which has a secular as well as
religious significance for most Czechs, was set to return to
state ownership.


The Church, which since the supreme court ruling has continued to
claim that it is the rightful owner, will now hand over the
cathedral from April 16, the statement added.


"That is when it will happen de facto, legally it had already
taken place," presidential spokesman Petr Hajek told AFP.


Founded in 1344 by the King of Bohemia Charles IV, the cathedral
was for many years used for the coronation of Bohemia's kings
and, since the founding of Czechoslovkia in 1918, the castle
complex has been the official residence of presidents of the
republic.

