

Michael Phelps claimed his fifth gold medal as he led off the
United States to a world record win in the 4x200-metres freestyle
relay at the world championships on Friday.


The unstoppable Phelps produced a 1:45.36 off the blocks to set
the cracking pace which Ryan Lochte, Klete Keller and Peter
Vanderkaay carried on for a new world record time of seven
minutes 03.24 seconds.


"We all had to step up and contribute. I was happy to get out in
clean water," Phelps said.


Their swim sliced 1.42secs off the world record held for six
years by Australia and set at the Fukuoka world championships.


The Americans annihilated the field, winning by almost seven
seconds with Australia thrilling the home crowd to grab silver in
7:10.05 ahead of Canada 7:10.70.


"You can say I've had a good night tonight. These other three
guys, and the crowd, and everything, just made it happen," said
Lochte, who earlier beat teammate Aaron Peirsol to win the 200m
backstroke gold in world record time.


"These guys set me up pretty well. I had clear water. I could
hear the crowd so I knew we were doing something special and I
just wanted to get my hand on the wall," said Vanderkaay, who
anchored the team.


Phelps is bidding for a record eight gold here but will strike
stiff competition from teammate Ian Crocker, the world record
holder and two-time world champion in the 100m butterfly final on
Saturday to keep his dream alive.


The American relay team were the defending world champions from
Montreal two years ago after Australia had strung together three
consecutive victories from 1998 to 2003.


It is the crack American men's team second relay gold at the
championships after cleaning up in the 4x100m freestyle relay on
Sunday.

