

Australia's breaststroke queen Leisel Jones pulverised her rivals
to clinch the breaststroke double in the third fastest 200-metre
time ever at the world championships Friday.


'Lethal' Leisel became the first swimmer to win the double
breaststroke gold at two consecutive world championships.


Jones, who won the 100m gold on Tuesday, charged away from the
field in the third lap and went on to win by over four seconds in
two minutes 21.84 seconds.


"That was my goal here. I did what I had to do. It means a lot,"
Jones said.


"I did it at the 2005 Montreal world championships under
relatively no pressure. Though the win here was the main thing.


"I took it easy in the first 100 so that was why I was probably
able to pick it up in the third 50. I had a lot of energy left to
bring it home."


Britain's Kirsty Balfour and American Megan Jendrick dead-heated
for the silver medal in 2:25.94.


Jones, who has dominated women's breaststroke since the 2004
Athens Olympics, has also swum the two fastest times in the
event.


The Australian, roared on by her home crowd, swam an explosive
third lap to take control and she pulled clear in the final lap.


She has yet to win an Olympic gold medal in the 200m breaststroke
after her second in Athens, but she will be the raging favourite
in Beijing next year.


"This meet has helped me to deal with the pressure going into
Beijing," Jones said. "I found it difficult to race Tara Kirk in
the 100m race when she was right on my shoulder, than to race
myself. But it is good practice for me."


Jones will attempt a historic breaststroke triple at the worlds
when she starts in the 50m heats on Saturday.


European champion Balfour, who won silver behind Jones in the
event at last year's Melbourne Commonwealth Games, shared the
silver medal with Jendrick, who beat Jones for the 100m gold
medal at the 2000 Sydney Olympics.

