

Iran has promised to reconsider a Turkish request for the release
of the sole woman among the 15 British servicemen it has
detained, a Turkish official said Friday.


Tehran will examine "in a positive way" the Turkish request to
free Faye Turney, Iranian state television quoted Iran's
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad as telling Turkish Prime Minister
Recep Tayyip Erdogan in a telephone conversation Thursday.


"The Iranian television report is true. They said they will
reconsider the request," Erdogan's spokesman, Mehmet Akif Beki,
told AFP.


He declined to give other details.


Erdogan also asked Ahmadinejad for permission for the Turkish
ambassador in Iran to see the captives, the report said.


Turkey has pledged to help its NATO ally Britain in the standoff
over the 15 sailors and marines accused of illegally entering
Iranian waters.


Erdogan first made the request to Iranian Foreign Minister
Manouchehr Mottaki at the Arab League summit in Riyadh on
Wednesday.


Tehran initially said the female sailor would be released "within
a day or two," but backed off on Thursday, citing Britain's
"incorrect" attitude after London announced the suspension of all
ties with the Islamic republic and took the dispute to the United
Nations.


The Turkish foreign ministry said Friday that Ankara was engaged
in "friendly and constructive contacts with the Iranian and
British authorities in order to resolve the issue without further
escalation."


"Turkey sincerely hopes that this problem will be resolved as
soon as possible in an atmosphere of good will... without
creating additional tensions to the existing problems in the
Middle East," the ministry said in a statement.

