

A Chinese homeowner who has stubbornly refused to make way for a
large new property development has been given an April 10
deadline to move out by a local court, the woman told AFP on
Friday.


"The court has given me a new ultimatum to get out by April 10,"
Wu Ping said by telephone from the southwestern city of
Chongqing.


Wu has become a national symbol of resistance to China's
unrestrained property development by holding up a major
residential project in a three-year battle for greater
compensation.


Wu's standoff with the developers and local government has left
her modest two- storey brick dwelling standing alone in the
middle of an excavated construction pit, an image that has
generated huge interest in the Chinese media and websites.


Wu, who has been dubbed the "stubborn nail," said the deadline
comes as the developers have indicated a new willingness to
negotiate.


A legal battle has raged since she rejected a compensation offer
to move out that was accepted by 280 other homeowners. Wu then
filed a suit maintaining that she cannot be forced to leave and
is demanding the developers build her a a new house in the area.


A previous March 22 deadline passed but the local government took
no action.


Such disputes are rife in China, often involving illegal land
grabs by developers in collusion with the government and Wu's
case has generated a lively debate over property rights
protections.


The national parliament passed a landmark law earlier this month
that solidified private property rights, partly to combat such
disputes.

