

Japan's Kosuke Kitajima added the world 200-metres breaststroke
title to his Olympic crown with a strong win in the final at the
world championships Friday.


Kitajima cashed in on the absence of reigning world champion
Brendan Hansen sidelined with a virus to lead throughout.


He was under Hansen's world record pace at halfway before he
tired to win in two minutes 09.80 seconds.


It was Japan's first gold medal of the championships.


"I tried to break the record. I challenged myself to break the
record more than winning this race. In that, I am frustrated,"
Kitajima said."


"I have a little more confidence to compete again because of this
gold medal."


Australian Brenton Rickard was second in 2:10.99 with Italy's
Loris Facci taking the bronze in 2:11.03.


Kitajima, who was the 200m champion at the 2003 Barcelona world
championships, regained the title after not competing in the
event at the last championships in Montreal.


Kitajima, the double breaststroke champion at Athens 2004,
clocked a world record in Barcelona which was subsequently
overtaken by Hansen (2:08.50).


The Japanese superstar is returning to top form after an injury-
ridden two years and qualified fastest for the final with a time
of 2:10.30 after winning silver in the 100m breaststroke on
Monday.


"I did really well in the heat and the semi-final. So If I can
swim like that, I can race more easily," Kitajima said


"I felt a bit tired in the last bit of the race because I have
raced every day."


Rickard was urged on by a home crowd to take second just ahead of
Facci,


"I tried to use my natural speed and take it out, and hang on,"
Rickard said. "It is a long last 50. I had zero left in the last
10m. I struggled to get out of the pool. But that is what we
love, to get involved in it all."

