

Six fans were ejected from a water polo match between bitter foes
Croatia and Serbia amid tight security Friday but a repeat of the
ethnic violence that marred the Australian Open was avoided.


An estimated 100 police were inside and outside the Melbourne
Sports and Aquatic Centre to avoid similar clashes between the
two sets of supporters that hit the tennis Grand Slam here in
January.


One fan was escorted from the stands before the match started
while five more were thrown off the premises after a flare was
set off inside the venue after the opening Croatian goal, police
said.


No arrests were made among the rowdy football-style crowd at the
world championship match but several flares and oversized flags
were confiscated.


Croatia's men stunned the reigning world champions and gold medal
favourites Serbia 10-7 to book a spot in Sunday's final, with
Croat player Samir Barac saying the crowd support had lifted his
team.


"I can't believe it - I have waited my whole career to win a
match like this and I don't think I could ever forget it," Barac
said.


"We were so motivated before the match. You want to play against
the toughest team and prove your worth."


Serbian player Zivko Gocic said he was devastated.


"I'm completely empty - I don't know what to say," Gocic said.


In January, more than 150 people were barred from the tennis at
Melbourne Park after Serbian and Croatian fans kicked and beat
each other with flagpoles.


There has been a long history of clashes between Serb and Croat
fans in Melbourne but it has previously been restricted to
football matches between teams representing the two Balkan
communities.

