

Five Kurdish rebels were killed Friday in clashes with the army
in southeast Turkey, security sources said.


Four of the rebels, members of the separatist Kurdistan Workers'
Party (PKK), were killed after they crossed into Turkish
territory in the mountainous province of Hakkari, which borders
Iraq and Iran.


The sources did not say from which country they came.


Army chief Yasar Buyukanit Thursday argued publicly for a cross-
border operation into neighbouring northern Iraq, where thousands
of PKK militants have found refuge thanks to what Ankara charges
is the tolerance of the local Iraqi Kurdish administration.


The fifth rebel was killed in the adjoining province of Sirnak.


Buyukanit said "large-scale" operations had been launched against
the PKK in southeast Turkey with the advent of spring, the time
when the rebels usually step up attacks as snow melts in the
mountains, facilitating their movement.


Friday's clashes bring to at least 34 the PKK death toll since
fighting intensified this month. The clashes have also claimed
the lives of 10 soldiers.


The PKK, listed as a terrorist group by Ankara and much of the
international community, took up arms for self-rule in the
Kurdish-majority southeast in 1984. The conflict has resulted in
more than 37,000 deaths.


Separately, a court in the western city of Izmir ordered Friday
the arrest of five people, among them the deputy chairman of the
local branch of Turkey's main legal Kurdish movement, the
Democratic Society Party (DTP), who was identified only as Y.Y.,
Anatolia news agency reported.


The five are expected to stand trial on charges of praising an
illegal organisation after they brandished portraits of jailed
PKK leader Abdullah Ocalan and PKK flags at a Kurdish festival
last month, the report said.

