

Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas is to discuss with Israeli
Prime Minister Ehud Olmert the way a future Palestinian state
will function, the Israeli leader's office said on Saturday.


"Questions such as the system of government of the future
Palestinian state, its legal and economic systems, will be looked
at during the meeting" on Sunday, Olmert's spokeswoman Miri Eisin
told AFP.


"But central questions on the final resolution of the conflict,
such as that dealing with borders, that of Jerusalem and of
refugees, will not be discussed," she said.


Security and humanitarian matters would figure in the talks,
including issues such as freight traffic and crossing points
between Israel and the Palestinian territories. So too would the
continued firing of rockets against the Jewish state from the
Gaza Strip, despite a ceasefire accord last November.


The two men will meet on Sunday afternoon at Olmert's official
residence in Jerusalem, following up on their agreement --
announced late last month by US Secretary of State Condoleezza
Rice -- to meet every two weeks.


Earlier this week, Abbas told Christian leaders during a meeting
in Bethlehem on the West Bank: "I am going to see Olmert next
week to discuss ways of reactivating the peace process in the
light of results of the Arab summit in Riyadh."


That heads of state meeting late in March relaunched a five-year-
old Arab peace plan which envisaged normalisation of relations
between Arab countries and Israel in exchange for an Israeli
withdrawal from territories it occupied in June 1967.


Israel, which dismissed the original plan, has lately spoken of
"positive elements" in it. But it rejects the actual current
draft mainly over its demand for the right of return of
Palestinian refugees who fled during the creation of the Jewish
state in 1948.


Israel's military radio said on Saturday that Olmert envisaged
discussing the Arab plan with envoys of the Arab League and
should take a decision on this next week. His spokeswoman refused
to comment on the report.


Olmert said last week that he was ready to attend a summit with
Arab leaders to discuss the Saudi-drafted plan and called on Arab
nations to convene such a meeting.


Two days later, Arab League chief Amr Mussa Arab League chief
rejected an Israeli invitation to such a regional summit,
describing it as "not serious" and having the only aim of getting
"normalisation for free."

