

Group of Seven finance chiefs Friday called excessive volatility
on foreign exchange markets "undesirable" and urged China to
allow its currency to appreciate faster.


"Excess volatility movements in exchange rates are undesirable
for economic growth," G7 finance ministers and central bankers
said in a statement after a meeting here.


"In emerging economies with large and growing current account
surpluses, especially China, it is desirable that their effective
exchange rates move so that necessary adjustments can occur," the
statement said.


The text adopted by top finance officials from Britain, Canada,
France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the United States contained the
same wording as their previous statement, issued in early
February following talks in Germany.


Friday's communique made no specific mention of the weakening
yen, which has unsettled European finance officials who fear the
trend will hamper eurozone exports and dampen growth in the
13-nation zone.


Turning his attention to China, US Treasury Secretary Henry
Paulson said "greater exchange rate flexibility and stronger
domestic demand in China are critical parts of rebalancing, and
it is crucial that China move now with greater urgency."


The United States has not shared European disquiet over the
sliding yen and has instead cited what it says is an undervalued
Chinese yuan as a threat to currency stability.


Washington has long pressed Beijing to accord greater flexibility
to the yuan, arguing that its weakness gives China an unfair
advantage on export markets while making Chinese products more
attractive in the United States.

