

Thai security forces shot dead two unarmed Muslim boys after they
thought they were being attacked amid fears of possible terror
strikes by Islamic rebels over the Buddhist new year, police said
Saturday.


The boys, aged 13 and 14, were killed late Friday by security
forces in Pattani, one of three Muslim-majority southern
provinces bordering Malaysia, police said.


They said the security forces opened fire after a group of five
Muslim boys ran towards them as they tried to extinguish a blaze
at a mobile phone base station.


"When security forces were working to extinguish the fire, the
five teenagers ran towards them and tried to attack the security
forces," a police official said.


Two of the boys were killed and three wounded.


The boys were unarmed but police insisted the security forces
acted in self- defence.


In nearby Narathiwat province, a 19-year-old Muslim boy was shot
dead by suspected Islamic rebels in a drive-by shooting late
Friday, police said.


Mainly Buddhist Thailand was on high alert against possible
terror attacks during the five-day Buddhist New Year holiday,
which started on Friday.


Police would deploy an extra 40,000 officers across the country
throughout the holiday to beef up security with a special focus
on crowded areas such as train stations and shopping malls in
Bangkok.


Bomb blasts hit the Thai capital on New Year's Eve, killing three
and wounding dozens, including foreign tourists.


The Bangkok attacks were followed by a coordinated arson and
bombing spree across the Muslim-majority south at the start of
the Lunar New Year in February, which left nine dead and 44
injured.


More than 2,000 people have been killed in three years of unrest
in the south.


Since a September coup, Thailand's military-installed government
has launched a raft of peace measures, only to see the attacks
escalate in the past six months.

