

US envoy Christopher Hill will meet with his Chinese counterpart
Saturday as a deadline for North Korea to shut down its Yongbyon
nuclear power plant passes, officials said.


Hill would meet bilaterally with Wu Dawei, China's envoy to the
North Korean nuclear talks that also include the two Koreas,
Japan and Russia, a US embassy official said.


But there were "currently no plans to hold an informal meeting of
the six-party talks in Beijing this weekend or to meet with the
North Koreans in Beijing," she said.


Xinhua news agency said late Friday that there was a chance Hill
would meet with North Korean envoy Kim Kye-Gwan on Saturday, but
the US official said she was unaware of any such meeting.


Hill late Friday urged North Korea to call in UN nuclear
inspectors immediately or face a joint response from the other
parties to the talks for failing to uphold its part in a February
denuclearisation agreement.


"They need to call the IAEA (UN International Atomic Energy
Agency)," Hill said when asked what Pyongyang could do to meet
Saturday's deadline on the initial steps towards dismantling its
nuclear programmes.


"That would certainly be an indication that they are getting
ready to do what they agreed in the February agreement."


In the pact, North Korea agreed to shut down its Yongbyon nuclear
power plant by Saturday, in exchange for fuel aid and diplomatic
recognition.


So far Pyongyang has refused to move due to US sanctions that
have blocked up to 25 million dollars in funds in a Macau bank.


But on Friday, North Korea promised to honour the deal once the
frozen assets had been released.


"There is no reason to be pessimistic. We will be faithful to
this agreement if the Americans respect its clauses," Kim Son-
gyong, deputy director of the foreign ministry's European
department, told AFP in an interview in Pyongyang.


"We will respect our commitment as it is written in the February
13 agreement. No more and no less," he said.

