

Two Marines and a civilian were killed and 10 other soldiers were
wounded in an attack by Muslim militants on a military camp in
the Philippine island of Jolo, a military source said Saturday.


Members of the Moro National Liberation Front (MNLF) used mortars
to attack a Marine base near the town of Panamao late Friday,
triggering a firefight, the senior military figure said.


Initial reports from the ground said two soldiers and a civilian
were killed, while 10 other troopers and another civilian were
wounded.


"Military operations are continuing," the source, who declined to
be named, said.


The MNLF was a former Muslim separatist group which signed a
peace pact with the government in 1996. They dropped their
independence bid and opted for limited self-autonomy, and their
leader Nur Misuari was subsequently named governor of a Muslim
region.


Five years after the accord, however, Misuari launched a fresh
rebellion after he lost government's support over alleged
corruption.


Misuari's forces attacked government targets on Jolo and nearby
Zamboanga city, killing over 100. He fled to Malaysia, but was
later captured and deported and is now in jail in a police camp
south of Manila.


He remains an influential figure in Muslim communities in the
south, and the Organization of Islamic Conference (OIC) has been
lobbying for his release to attend a meeting in Saudi Arabia in
July.


The 57-nation OIC recognises the MNLF as the sole representative
of Muslim minorities in the majority Catholic Philippines.


In February, Misuari's forces led by his top lieutenant Habier
Malik kidnapped government peace negotiators, but released them
later after securing a pledge from government that Misuari's case
was being closely looked into.


The MNLF controls vast parts of Jolo, where the Al-Qaida linked
Abu Sayyaf group and several Indonesian members of the Jemaah
Islamiyah (JI) are also on the run from military forces.

