

Five-time Grand Slam champion Venus Williams booked a semi-final
showdown with second-seeded Jelena Jankovic Friday at the 1.34
million-dollar Family Circle Cup.


Williams, who is unseeded here, ground out a 6-4, 7-5 victory
over Anabel Medina Garrigues of Spain, while Jankovic romped to a
6-2, 6-0 victory over Katarina Srebotnik of Slovakia.


Fourth-seeded Russian Dinara Safina also advanced, when France's
Tatiana Golovin retired with an ankle injury.


Safina had won the first set 6-3 when an ankle injury prompted
Golovin to call it a day.


It was a disappointing end to Golovin's recent run of good form,
which saw her capture her first career title last Sunday in
Amelia Island, Florida.


In the semi-finals, Safina will face compatriot Vera Zvonareva, a
6-1, 7-5 winner over Dutch wild card Michaella Krajicek.


Krajicek had ousted top seed Nicole Vaidisova in the second
round.


Despite her unseeded status, Williams is the marquee name in the
draw.


After missing most of 2006 with a wrist injury, Williams has
begun to re- establish herself as a dominant player, winning a
title in Memphis in February.


On Friday, she overcame an 0-3 deficit in the second set to win
her first career match against Medina Garrigues.


The US star committed six double-faults, including four in the
second set, but also converted a pair of late breaks to reach the
final four.


Williams can expect a tough time against Jankovic, ranked ninth
in the world.


Jankovic had struggled here in the past, failing to advance
beyond the second round in her four previous trips to this
claycourt event.


But the 22-year-old Serb has been outstanding here this week,
posting three consecutive straight-sets wins while dropping a
total of just seven games.


She needed less than 50 minutes to dispatch Srebotnik, converting
six break chances.

