

Jason Kidd collected 13 points, 14 rebounds and 11 assists here
Friday as the New Jersey Nets booked their own National
Basketball Association playoff berth and denied the New York
Knicks.


Vince Carter scored 25 points and Richard Jefferson added 24 for
the Nets, who won 100-86 and mathematically eliminated the
Knicks.


The victory, coupled with Indiana's loss at Miami, saw the Nets
clinch their sixth straight postseason berth.


Battling for the final playoff spot for most of the season, the
Knicks suffered a rash of injuries to key contributors en route
to losing 13 of their last 16 games to fall out of playoff
contention.


On Friday, the Nets made it official with a red-hot third
quarter. Trailing, 47-44, entering the third, New Jersey
outscored New York, 40-21, in the period - shooting 14-of-19 from
the floor, including 6-of-8 on 3-pointers.


Kidd, Carter and Jefferson combined for 33 points in the quarter.
For the game, the trio shot 22-of-45 from the field, including
9-of-17 from the arc.


In Miami, superstar Dwyane Wade scored 14 of his 23 points in the
fourth quarter as the defending NBA champion Heat rallied for a
100-95 triumph over the Pacers.


After missing 23 games with a separated shoulder, Wade connected
on 9-of-22 shots for his first 20-point performance since
suffering the injury on February 21 at Houston. He also had five
steals.


The victory also helped Miami remain in the battle for home-court
advantage with the Toronto Raptors, who hold a 2 1/2-game lead
over the Heat in the Eastern Conference standings.

