

African health ministers adopted a health strategy on Friday to
deal with the host of diseases on the continent, a dearth of
health workers and failing health systems.


During a three-day conference held in Johannesburg, the ministers
discussed ways to eradicate and manage diseases such as malaria,
tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS.


Key to discussions on the strategy was that the burden of disease
in Africa was a barrier to socio-economic development on the
continent which accounts for a quarter of the world's ill health.


The strategy also aims to provide basic health care to all
Africans


by 2015.


"The health strategy adopted today therefore seeks to provide the
over-arching framework for addressing health challenges in
Africa," said a conference press statement.


Some of the issues addressed in the strategy are issues of
governance, financing, community participation, increasing
numbers of health workers and including the use of African
traditional medicine while taking into account its strengths and
limitations. .


"I am sure that with our partners, both local communities as well
as our development partners we shall do all we can to ensure the
full implementation of the Strategy", said South Africa's acting
health minister and conference chairman Jeff Radebe.


The African Union social affairs commissioner Bience Gawanas said
the strategy would not replace existing strategies.


"It is a vision document that sets out the context within which
Africa is saying we want to meet our health challenges'," she
said.


Zimbabwe's health minister David Parirenyatwa proposed that the
next conference in 2009 be held in his country, saying he felt it
was "important that people come to our country."

