

Here is a timeline of Prince William's romance with Kate
Middleton. The couple have split, British media reported
Saturday.


-- September 2001: William and Middleton meet at the University
of St Andrews in Scotland, where they study art history.


-- March 2002: William pays 200 pounds (395 dollars, 295 euros)
to watch Middleton model a black see-through dress over her
underwear in a charity catwalk show. Pictures emerge of event.


-- September 2002: They move into a student house with two other
friends.


-- June 2003: Claims are officially denied that William is going
out with friend Jecca Craig, the daughter of wealthy
conservationists in Kenya.


-- June 2003: Middleton attends William's 21st birthday party. In
an interview, he insists that he does not have a girlfriend.


-- September 2003: William, Middleton and their flatmates move
into a cottage.


-- December 2003: Pair believed to be a couple after she splits
from her previous boyfriend.


-- March 2004: Pair photographed skiing together in Klosters,
Switzerland.


-- June 2005: Couple attend the wedding of one of William's
friends.


-- June 2005: They graduate from St Andrews.


-- July 2005: Pair holiday at a Kenyan reserve owned by Craig's
parents.


-- October 2005: Middleton's lawyers ask newspapers to leave her
alone, claiming she is being hounded.


-- January 2006: Pictured kissing at Klosters, days before
William begins his army training.


-- March 2006: Middleton, without William, invited to the Royal
Box at the Cheltenham Gold Cup horse race.


-- April 2006: Middleton's lawyers make further complaints to
newspapers about alleged intrusion.


-- April 2006: Couple holiday on Carribean hideaway island
Mustique.


-- May 2006: Pair attend wedding of William's step-sister Laura
Parker Bowles.


-- August 2006: Holiday on Spanish party island Ibiza.


-- November 2006: Middleton begins job as accessories buyer for
fashion chain Jigsaw.


-- December 2006: Middleton watches William graduate as an army
officer, in presence of his grandmother Queen Elizabeth II.


-- January 2007: Paparazzi scrum outside her home on her 25th
birthday causes concern. Her lawyers threaten action.


-- March 2007: William starts army training at Bovington Camp
barracks, southwest England.


-- March 2007: Middleton lodges official complaint over alleged
press harassment.


-- March 2007: On a night out with army pals, William poses for
pictures with arms around girls in a nightclub near his barracks.


-- April 2007: Couple have split, according to media reports.

