

A public Canadian television network reported late Friday that it
had obtained a video of two French nationals taken hostage in
Afghanistan, in which they say they fear for their lives.


CBC television did not explain how it obtained the video and
decided to broadcast only still images.


According to the network, the pictures show a young woman saying
in a weak voice that she was a French volunteer worker kidnapped
by the Taliban 10 days ago. The images then show a man who says
his name is Eric.


Both the man and the woman make appeals for saving their lives,
the report said.


According to CBC, the French government has confirmed the video
shows the French aid workers who have gone missing in
Afghanistan.


The network said the pictures had provided the first evidence the
captives were still alive.


The French aid workers, from the non-governmental organisation
Terre d'Enfance (A World for Our Children), went missing on April
3 in the southwestern province of Nimroz.


The Islamist Taliban militia say they are holding the pair, along
with three of their Afghan colleagues.


Concerns over the safety of the hostages mounted since the
Taliban said on Sunday that they had beheaded an Afghan reporter
whom they kidnapped with an Italian journalist a month ago in the
southern province of Helmand.


Ajmal Naqshbandi was killed after Afghan President Hamid Karzai's
administration failed to negotiate with the Taliban. However,
Italian reporter Daniele Mastrogiacomo was freed in a hostage
deal that saw five militants released from Afghan jails.


Karzai was criticised both within and outside Afghanistan for his
controversial deal and has said that his government will not
repeat the hostage trade with the Taliban.


Meanwhile, French President Jacques Chirac called on Karzai to
demand his support for efforts to free the French aid workers,
Karzai's office said Friday.


"President Chirac during a telephone conversation last night
demanded the Afghan president's support to secure the release of
two French nationals," Karzai's office said in a statement.


"The president in response assured that all relevant Afghan
authorities will do their utmost to secure their release," it
said, without giving any further details.


The rebels have also been holding five Afghan medics since
kidnapping them in southern Kandahar province on March 27. The
rebels on Monday threatened to kill at least one of the doctors
unless the government enters talks.

