

Google announced on Friday that it is buying online advertising
firm DoubleClick for 3.1 billion dollars.


The Mountain View, California-based Internet search colossus will
combine DoubleClick's technology with its proven advertising
platform.


Google and DoubleClick, which is based in New York City, will
provide an efficient way to manage both search and display ads
online, according to Google chief executive Eric Schmidt.


"We've come to an agreement to purchase DoubleClick," Schmidt
said in a conference call from Argentina, where Google is opening
a new office.


"It is something we have thought about for a very long time."


Google and DoubleClick executives expect the cash deal to clear
regulatory hurdles and close later this year.


The companies should easily combine operations because they share
a "common vision" and have offices in the same building in New
York, according to DoubleClick chief executive David Rosenblatt.


"We are both Internet companies of the same generation,"
Rosenblatt said in the conference call with investors and
reporters.


"There is a lot of overlap. We are in the same building. There
are former DoubleClick employees who are at Google and vice
versa. I see very little problem with integration."


Many of Google's major advertisers use DoubleClick's software
platform for buying, selling and tracking digital advertising,
according to Schmidt.


Combining DoubleClick's prowess in display and video advertising
with Google's search-ad savvy promises to enable Google to create
products that better target Internet users and measured results,
the companies said.


DoubleClick technology is likely to be part of a strategy to
generate revenue from YouTube, the superstar video-sharing
website that Google bought in November in a 1.65-billion-dollar
stock deal.


"Certainly (video advertising) is a category that could be served
with better measurement tools and better targeting," Google co-
founder Sergey Brin said during the conference call.


"The combination of the companies together with YouTube will be a
better experience for advertisers."


Brin said DoubleClick technology will also enhance Google's
ability to protect the privacy of search engine users.


"Overall, we care very much about end-user privacy and that will
take a Number One priority when we talk about advertising
products," Brin said. "There are quite a few plans with respect
to how we feel about privacy."


DoubleClick came under fire several years ago from consumer
advocacy groups that accused it of planting software known as
"cookies" on users' computers to record what people were viewing
online.


The company was targeted for investigation by attorneys general
in 10 US states.


It negotiated a settlement in 2002 that included being more open
about what data it keeps and getting the information off the
Internet within three months of its collection.


DoubleClick admitted no wrongdoing in the settlement but agreed
to pay 450,000 for investigative costs and to educate Internet
users about online privacy.


DoubleClick was created in 1996 and its client list includes
Nike, Motorola, Microsoft, and Coca-Cola. The company was bought
by private investment firm Hellman and Friedman in July of 2005.


"We've had informal chats before but the alignment wasn't there,"
Schmidt said of the acquisition, Google's largest. "We got that
alignment now. We felt we could afford the price and that it is a
very good deal for Google and our shareholders."

