

US President George W. Bush on Saturday renewed his demand for
congressional action on an emergency bill that contains funds for
the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, arguing that US troops should
not be "trapped in the middle" of political debates.


But for the first time in weeks, he did not repeat his threat to
veto both the House and Senate versions of the war funding bills
that were approved last month and contain deadlines for troop
withdrawals from the country.


"I recognize that Republicans and Democrats in Washington have
differences over the best course in Iraq, and we should
vigorously debate those differences," Bush said in his weekly
radio address. "But our troops should not be trapped in the
middle."


He said Congress must quickly pass what he called "a clean bill"
that funds US troops "without artificial time lines for
withdrawal, without handcuffing our generals on the ground, and
without extraneous domestic spending."


The president has repeatedly promised to veto both the House and
Senate versions of the war funding bills that were approved last
month and contain deadlines for troop withdrawals from the
country.


The Senate version that authorizes 122 billion dollars for the
wars in Iraq and Afghanistan suggests that all US combat troops
be pulled out from Iraq by March 31, 2008.


The 124-billion-dollar version approved by the House of
Representatives mandates that the withdrawal be completed by
August 31, 2008.


Bush is to meet with congressional leaders from both parties on
Wednesday to discuss the situation in Iraq.

