

A US-based rights group on Saturday condemned fresh ethnic
fighting in military- run Myanmar and urged neighboring Thailand
to protect hundreds of refugees fleeing the violence.


Human Rights Watch urged Myanmar to end the latest fighting near
the Thai border between a pro-junta militia and the Karen
National Union (KNU), the largest rebel group fighting the
country's armed forces for autonomy.


Myanmar's military and the pro-government militia seized key
ethnic Karen rebel bases this week after days of fierce fighting,
which forced some 300 people to cross into the kingdom, Thai
officials said.


"Burma's military government should end joint military attacks,
carried out with ethnic Karen militias, on civilians" in the
eastern Karen State, the rights group said in a statement, using
the former name of Myanmar.


The US group also called on Thailand to protect all the refugees
fleeing the military attacks.


"The international community needs to keep a close watch on the
situation, encourage Thailand to protect the refugees, and find
ways of providing assistance themselves," it said.


But a senior Thai border official said Thursday most of the
fleeing civilians had returned to Myanmar as the violence ended
on Wednesday.


Myanmar, under military rule since 1962, has signed ceasefires
with 17 other ethnic armed groups.


But the KNU, based in eastern Myanmar, is one of the few
remaining ethnic insurgent groups yet to sign a peace deal with
the junta.


Up to 150,000 Karen refugees already live in camps along
Thailand's border with Myanmar. Many of them have been there for
more than 20 years.

