

China launched the fifth satellite in its ambitious "Compass"
global satellite positioning system Saturday, the latest effort
in the nation's fast developing space programme, state media
reported.


The "Beidou" or "Big Dipper" satellite was launched from the
Xichang Satellite Launch Centre in southwest China's Sichuan
province at 4:11 am (2011 GMT Friday), and accurately entered its
planned orbit, Xinhua news agency said.


The satellite was the fifth such vehicle put into space as part
of China's indigenous global satellite positioning system, the
report said.


The system would provide "navigation and positioning services in
transportation, meteorology, petroleum prospecting, forest fire
monitoring, disaster forecast, telecommunications and public
security among others," it said.


It was expected to be operational for clients in China and Asia
by 2008 and according to current plans would be expanded into a
worldwide global positioning system in the future, it said.


The complete "Compass" navigation system would include a total of
five geostationary earth orbit satellites and 30 medium earth
orbit satellites, previous reports said.


Xinhua did not say when the entire system was set to be
completed.


It was also not clear how the Chinese system would rival the US
global positioning satellite system or the European Union's
Galileo satellite navigational system which is expected to be
built with Chinese participation.


Saturday's launch was the 97th successful flight of China's Long
March series carrier rocket, the work horse of the nation's space
programme and a key component of its ballistic missile arsenal.

