

Group of Seven finance ministers from the world's richest nations
said Friday a WTO deal to tear down global trade barriers was
"imperative."


"We believe that a successful conclusion of the Doha Development
round is imperative," they said in a statement, referring to the
World Trade Organization's stalled effort to liberalize commerce.


"We are committed to resisting protectionist sentiment.
Substantially lowering tariffs and other barriers is essential to
spur new growth in global trade and reduce poverty," the G7
ministers said after their latest talks.


"We welcome recent steps to intensify engagement, recognizing
that substantive movement towards a comprehensive final outcome
requires all parties to make additional efforts."


In his own post-G7 statement, US Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson
said: "I urge my fellow finance ministers to encourage their
trade ministers to achieve an ambitious (Doha) deal."


Late Thursday after two days of talks in New Delhi, trade
ministers from the United States, the European Union, India,
Brazil, Australia and Japan expressed cautious optimism about
clinching a WTO breakthrough this year.


The ministers said they believed "that by intensifying our work,
we can reach convergence and thus contribute to concluding the
round by the end of 2007."


The Delhi meeting marked the first time the leading trade powers
had assembled for talks since the Doha discussions were suspended
last July amid US and European resistance to deeper cuts to their
farm subsidies.


The Doha round, launched in 2001 in the Qatari capital, has
repeatedly missed deadlines as wealthy and developing nations
have struggled to strike a deal on opening up trade in
agricultural, industrial goods and services.


Also on the trade front, the G7 ministers from Britain, Canada,
France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the United States called for
enhanced cooperation to protect intellectual property rights and
combat counterfeiting.

