

Suspected Tamil Tiger rebels shot dead five people in eastern Sri
Lanka on Saturday, the military said, as the country marked the
traditional New Year and the president appealed for national
unity.


Gunmen from the rebel Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE)
ordered a family out of their home in Eravur and shot them dead,
the military said, adding some of the victims were from a
breakaway rebel faction.


Among those killed was a three-year-old boy, the military said.


The killings came as both the majority Sinhalese and the minority
Tamil community marked their common New Year on Saturday.


President Mahinda Rajapakse in his New Year message appealed for
unity in the ethnically-divided nation of 19.5 million people.


"The observance of New Year traditions and rituals leads to the
unity of the nation," he said. "We should all come together to
observe the New Year traditions, irrespective of all
differences."


The Tigers on Friday vowed to hit back against an advance by
government troops in the east of Sri Lanka where a breakaway
faction known as the "Karuna Group" is collaborating with
security forces to attack the Tigers.


The LTTE denied military claims that they were retreating in the
face of an onslaught in the Eastern Province, where they were
ejected from a coastal stronghold in January, and said they would
retaliate "very soon."


More than 4,000 people died between December 2005 and the first
week of March 2007 across the country, including 675 civilians
and 1,040 security personnel, according to defence ministry
figures.


The LTTE has waged a 35-year campaign for independence that has
claimed more than 60,000 lives.

