

The Australian government plans to outlaw books that advocate
terrorism in a move that publishers say raises serious concerns
abut free speech.


Federal Attorney-General Philip Ruddock announced late Friday
that his state counterparts had agreed to consider legislative
changes banning publications that advocate terrorism.


He said the planned changes were part of a "zero tolerance"
approach to terrorism from Canberra, a strong supporter of the
US-led military campaigns in Iraq and Afghanistan.


"Books, games, videos, anything that is seen to be advocating a
terrorist act would be refused classification, therefore could
not be marketed," Ruddock told public radio.


He said that under existing laws, a publication can only be
banned if it is deemed to directly "promote, incite or instruct"
readers to engage in terrorist acts.


The proposed new laws ban books that simply advocate terrorism,
meaning anything that censors feel glorifies terrorism can be
outlawed.


While the distinction may appear subtle, the Australian
Publishers Association said it had major implications for free
speech in Australia.


"The difficulty is that once you start legislating thew ability
of a government to ban books or ban all types of publishing, then
you have a problem that it could be the thin edge of the wedge,"
association spokeswoman Maree McCaskill told ABC radio.


"We've already seen a number of publications taken out of
libraries and taken off shelves that have been published and been
around for some time, and now the government has removed those.


I have a real concern that this is about freedom of speech. It is
about censorship and once you start allowing governments to
censor as they feel fit, then you give them a very wide
opportunity to start being the arbiter of all sorts of things
that should be banned or removed from shelves."


State attorney's-general will report back to Canberra on the
feasibility of the proposed laws by July.

