

An Afghan probe has concluded that US Marines used "excessive
force" in responding to an ambush in Afghanistan last month and
killed 12 people, including two children, The Washington Post
reported Saturday.


Citing a draft report by an Afghan human rights commission, the
newspaper said the investigation, based on dozens of witness
accounts, found that the Marines in a convoy of Humvees continued
shooting well beyond the site where they were ambushed by a
suicide bomber in a van.


The special operations unit of the US Marine Corps fired at
stationary vehicles, passersby and others who were "exclusively
civilian in nature" and had made "no kind of provocative or
threatening behavior," The Post said.


In addition to the 12 Afghans killed, including a four-year-old
girl a one-year- old boy and at least two women, 35 were wounded,
and one Marine was injured by shrapnel, according to the report.


The incident occurred on March 4 in Afghanistan's eastern
Nangarhar Province.


US officials familiar with the report by the constitutionally
mandated Afghanistan Independent Human Rights Commission said its
findings are "troubling" and consistent with the US military's
preliminary investigation, the paper noted.


Together, the reports contain "more than sufficient evidence of
wrongdoing" by the Marines, the report quotes Representative Adam
Smith, chairman of the House panel that oversees US Special
Operations forces, as saying.


"There is very troubling information in those reports that must
be investigated," said Smith.

