

The Ethiopian government has denied buying weapons from North
Korea, while admitting having received a cargo of spare parts and
raw material from Pyongyang for its arms industry.


"There was indeed a cargo shipment from North Korea to Ethiopia
on 22nd January 2007," the foreign ministry said in a statement
late Friday.


"This shipment contained spare parts for machinery and
engineering equipment and raw material for the making of assorted
ammunition for small arms."


The statement stressed: "Ethiopia acted in full compliance with
Security Council Resolution 1718 (2006)."


Purchases of weapons and military materiel from North Korea are
banned in line with United Nations sanctions adopted after
Pyongyang carried out a nuclear test in October 2006.


Addis Ababa said the contracts for the purchase of the spare
parts and raw materials were signed between June 12 and 22 last
year and a down payment was made before "irrevocable Letters of
Credit were issued between 30 June and 30 September 2006.


"This means that all payments for the cargo were effected before
the adoption of Resolution 1718."


The United States on Monday admitted implicitly that it did not
interdict a shipment of North Korean weapons to Ethiopia despite
the UN sanctions on Pyongyang.


State Department spokesman Sean McCormack refused to comment
directly on a New York Times report that the United States
allowed Ethiopia to purchase the arms from North Korea in
January, when Addis Ababa was supporting Somali government troops
in a battle against Islamist militias, and three months after the
UN sanctions were adopted.

