

World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) general manager David Howman on
Friday demanded tougher penalties against dope cheats.


The New Zealander wants the sentence against first time offenders
raised from a two-year ban to four years.


He made his recommendation at an Athletes' Commission meeting in
Estoril, near Lisbon, during a discussion about changes to the
WADA code, which has been in place since January 2004 but is due
to undergo changes in November.


"The commission supports tougher penalties and all the athletes
want harder punishments meted out to cheats. The idea of a four
year ban for first time offences is being studied," said Howman
during a press conference.


He stressed that he was talking about abusers of harder drugs
such as steroids and EPO rather than the cases of accidental
consumption of banned substances.


Howman also called for better co-operation with international
police service Interpol and suggested dope users who helped in
bringing evidence against doping networks should receive lighter
sentences.


However, he criticised FIFA for its failure to apply WADA rules.


"FIFA is a part of our family and I hope they will adopt the
revised code," he added.


FIFA president Sepp Blatter joined the WADA board recently but
FIFA bosses admitted to having reservations about the new anti-
doping code.


FIFA denied doping is rife in football where blood testing is not
used, even though some players have been found guilty of using
EPO.


The Athletes' Commission is headed by Russian Vyacheslav Fetisov,
a former ice hockey player, Russia's Sports Minister of Sport and
president of Unesco's international convention against doping.

