

A Zimbabwean opposition lawmaker and 12 activists arrested in a
crackdown last month appeared in court charged with terrorism,
banditry and sabotage, their lawyer said Saturday.


Lawyer Alec Mucahdehama said the prosecution claimed Member of
Parliament Paul Madzore and his co-accused underwent training as
"bandits, saboteurs, insurgents or terrorists."


"The prosecutor Austin Muzivi alleged that between December last
year and March this year, the 13 went to Pretoria and Orange Free
State in South Africa to undergo military training on how to
terrorise the government," Muchadehama told AFP.


The prosecutor "added that they were taught to make and use
firebombs", said Muchadehama.


The group was among scores of the Movement for Democratic Change
(MDC, opposition) officials and supporters who were arrested in
what police said was a crackdown on fire bombers accused of a
series of attacks across the southern African country.


Harare magistrate Gloria Takundwa remanded the suspects in
custody until Monday, when their lawyer is expected to protest
against the assault of the MDC activists during their arrest and
while in detention.


Opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai has denied accusations that
MDC members were behind the spate of bombings, saying they were
were framed.


"The false allegations against the MDC are not new," Tsvangirai
said in a statement on Thursday.


"You will recall that a few months after the presidential
elections of 2002, malevolent charges of treason were bought
against me. These things are not new to us. For months in 2002 we
were labelled terrorists and saboteurs".


Long-standing political tensions deteriorated last month when
state security agents assaulted Tsvangirai and scores of
supporters and shot dead an opposition activist as they broke up
an anti-government rally.

