

Kuwait's Emir Sheikh Sabah al-Ahmad al-Sabah will chair a meeting
Saturday of the ruling Al-Sabah dynasty, a newspaper said, amid
reports of new infighting within the family.


The meeting will be attended by about 200 family members aged 40
years and above to discuss "infighting among ruling family
members," among other issues, the Al- Siyassah daily reported,
quoting "highly-informed sources."


The meeting would take decisions on proposed reforms aimed at
preventing wrangling and at consolidating the political system,
the daily said.


Last year, the ruling family was plunged into an internal
struggle for power that resulted in the removal of former emir
Sheikh Saad Abdullah al-Sabah on health grounds in an
unprecedented vote by the elected parliament.


The meeting comes after veteran opposition lawmaker Ahmad al-
Saadun issued a stern warning earlier this week against attempts
to suspend or amend the emirate's 1962 constitution, branding it
a coup attempt.


Saadun, a former three-time parliament speaker, told a public
rally the suspension of the constitution "amounts to a coup
against the regime which we will confront regardless of the
consequences."


Kuwait's constitution, the first in the Gulf Arab region, was
suspended twice in 1976 for five years and in 1986 for six years
when parliament was also dissolved.


The Al-Sabah family has been running the affairs of the oil-rich
emirate since Kuwait came into existence some 250 years ago, and
Kuwaitis have seldom questioned their continuing rule.


The emir, crown prince and the prime minister are all from the
Al-Sabah bloodline, which also controls the key ministerial
porfolios of defence, interior, oil and foreign affairs.

