

Briton Lewis Hamilton continued to demonstrate his precocious
potential when he topped the times in Saturday morning's final
free practice session for Sunday's Bahrain Grand Prix.


The 22-year-old McLaren Mercedes-Benz driver rose to the top
during the hour- long session and clocked the fastest lap time in
one minute and 32.543 seconds as the teams completed their
preparations ahead of the afternoon qualifying session.


Hamilton, the second black driver in Formula One after Indian
Narain Karthikeyan, but the first of Afro-Caribbean descent,
finished third on his debut in last month's Australian Grand Prix
and second in Malaysia last weekend, stirring a worldwide
reaction.


Hamilton's time was a mere 0.006 seconds ahead of the Ferrari of
Finnish driver Kimi Raikkonen in second.


Third and fourth fastest were the BMW-Saubers of German Nick
Heidfeld and Poland's Robert Kubica.


Briton Anthony Davidson was a surprise fifth fastest ahead of
Brazilian Felipe Massa in the second Ferrari and double world
drivers champion Fernando Alonso in seventh.


The two Hondas of Briton Jenson Honda and Brazilian Rubens
Barrichello, of whom so much was expected this year, continued to
struggle badly and wound up 16th and 18th respectively.


It was an eventful morning for the four Red Bull-owned cars, as
American Scott Speed's Torro Rosso ended the session parked on
the trackside at turn 10 causing a yellow flag and Australian
Mark Webber's error at turn 11 forcing him off the track.


Italian Vitantonio Liuzzi nearly left the garage with a tyre
blanket still attached to his car, and Briton David Coulthard
slowed to a crawl on track in the final minutes.

