

Despite urgings from Iran and Iraq, the administration of
President George W. Bush has decided to hold on to five Iranian
intelligence agents captured in Iraq, The Washington Post
reported Saturday.


Citing unnamed US officials, the newspaper said that at a meeting
of the president's foreign policy team Tuesday, the White House
overruled State Department recommendations and decided the five
would remain in custody and go through a periodic six-month
review.


The same reviews are used for the 250 other foreign detainees
held in Iraq, according to the report. The next review is not
expected until July.


The Iranians were seized in January at Iran's liaison office in
Irbil, and they remain at the center of increasing tensions
between Washington and Tehran, The Post said.


The decision is certain to further irritate Tehran, which has
ratcheted up pressure on the United States and on its allies and
even its friends in the Iraqi government to win freedom for the
Irbil five, the paper said.


The decision came as Iraq's government spokesman, on a White
House visit Friday, urged better ties.


"We feel that the improvement and the better relations between
the United States and Iran could minimize -- could make the
(Iranian) interference less," Ali Dabbagh is quoted by The Post
as saying.


Differences over the five Iranians reflect an emerging divide on
how to deal with Iran, according to the report.


Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice went into the meeting Tuesday
advising that the men be freed because they are no longer useful,
The Post said.


But after a review of options she went along with the consensus,
the report said.


Vice President Richard Cheney's office made the firmest case for
keeping them, according to the paper.


Their capture signals that Iran's actions are monitored and that
Iranian operatives face seizure, The Post said.

