

The North Korean capital was Saturday in party mode, with
thousands thronging the streets to celebrate the birthday of the
communist state's founder, as a deadline slipped in a nuclear
disarmament deal.


North Korea, under a breakthrough six-nation agreement in
February, had until Saturday to start shutting a nuclear facility
and to bring in UN atomic inspectors.


But Pyongyang has insisted it will not act until it receives 25
million dollars that were blacklisted at Macau's Banco Delta
Asia.


"There have been no new developments on the financial issue of
Banco Delta Asia," a North Korean official said here Saturday.


The United States has said it has unblocked the money and that
North Korea can access it, but Pyongyang has vowed not to take
action until it has the money in its hands.


The nuclear controversy was not on the minds of ordinary North
Koreans, who gathered across Pyongyang on the eve of the 95th
anniversary of the birth of North Korea's late "Eternal
President" Kim Il-Sung.


Tens of thousands of people converged in the main public places,
such as the massive Kim Il-Sung square in the heart of Pyongyang,
to practise folk dances for Sunday's "people's balls" on the
streets.


Women came out in vivid traditional gowns of pink, yellow and
red, while men put on shirts and ties and boys donned blue vests
and white caps.


"This year is special. There are two landmark festivals -- the
95th anniversary of the birth of President Kim Il-Sung and the
75th anniversary of the foundation of the Korean People's Army,"
Kim Son-gyong, a senior foreign ministry official, said in an
interview Friday.

