

A bidding war between Google and Microsoft ended on Friday with
Google agreeing to pay 3.1 billion dollars to add online
advertising firm DoubleClick to its Internet money-making
arsenal.


Google's stock price dipped slightly in after hours trading as
investors wrestled with whether its victorious bid resulted in it
overpaying for DoubleClick.


"Google is throwing a lot of money at things and it is not clear
that they are spending wisely," analyst Rob Enderle of Enderle
Group told AFP.


"After the negative press that followed the YouTube purchase it
looks like investors are looking at this acquisition more
carefully. Maybe buying DoubleClick is strategic, but it is not
clear they are not wasting money."


Video-sharing website YouTube, which Google bought in November in
a 1.65 -billion-dollar stock deal, has generated copyright
litigation instead of profits.


San Francisco investment firm Hellman and Friedman reportedly
paid a billion dollars for DoubleClick in July of 2005 and put it
on the market about a year later for twice that amount.


"DoubleClick did not increase in value three times from initial
purchase to when it was sold," Enderle said while discussing
Google's winning bid.


"Previously, Google has been able to buy stuff and pay a premium
and have the market reward them favorably. This time the market
is down."


Google's stock price slipped slightly more than a dollar, or
nearly a quarter of a percent, to 466.29 in after hours trading.


The Mountain View, California-based Internet search colossus will
combine DoubleClick's technology with its proven advertising
platform.


Google and DoubleClick, which is based in New York City, will
provide an efficient way to manage both search and display ads
online, according to Google chief executive Eric Schmidt.


"We've come to an agreement to purchase DoubleClick," Schmidt
said in a conference call from Argentina, where Google is opening
a new office.


"It is something we have thought about for a very long time."


Google and DoubleClick executives expect the cash deal to clear
regulatory hurdles and close later this year.


The companies should easily combine operations because they share
a "common vision" and have offices in the same building in New
York, according to DoubleClick chief executive David Rosenblatt.


"We are both Internet companies of the same generation,"
Rosenblatt said in the conference call with investors and
reporters.


"There is a lot of overlap. We are in the same building. There
are former DoubleClick employees who are at Google and vice
versa. I see very little problem with integration."


Many of Google's major advertisers use DoubleClick's software
platform for buying, selling and tracking digital advertising,
according to Schmidt.


Combining DoubleClick's prowess in display and video advertising
with Google's search-ad savvy, promises to enable Google to
create products that better target Internet users and measure
results, the companies said.


DoubleClick technology is likely to be part of a strategy to
generate revenue from YouTube.


"Certainly (video advertising) is a category that could be served
with better measurement tools and better targeting," Google co-
founder Sergey Brin said during the conference call.


"The combination of the companies together with YouTube will be a
better experience for advertisers."


Brin said DoubleClick technology will also enhance Google's
ability to protect the privacy of search engine users.


"Overall, we care very much about end-user privacy and that will
take a Number One priority when we talk about advertising
products," Brin said. "There are quite a few plans with respect
to how we feel about privacy."


DoubleClick came under fire several years ago from consumer
advocacy groups that accused it of planting software known as
"cookies" on users' computers to record what people were viewing
online.


The company was targeted for investigation by attorneys general
in 10 US states.


It negotiated a settlement in 2002 that included being more open
about what data it keeps and removing the information from the
Internet within three months of its collection.


DoubleClick was created in 1996 and its client list includes
Nike, Motorola, Microsoft, and Coca-Cola.


"We've had informal chats before but the alignment wasn't there,"
Schmidt said of the acquisition, Google's largest. "We got that
alignment now. We felt we could afford the price and that it is a
very good deal for Google and our shareholders."

