

A guide to the different types of abandoned shopping trolleys has
won the Diagram Prize for oddest book title of the year,
following an online vote for industry publication The Bookseller.


"The Stray Shopping Carts of Eastern North America: A Guide to
Field Identification" by Julian Montague secured 1,866 out of a
total of more than 5,500 votes from a six-strong short-list.


In second place was "Tattooed Mountain Women and Spoon Boxes of
Daghestan" with 1,365 votes; third was "Better Never to Have
Been: The Harm of Coming Into Existence" with 685 votes.


In a statement announcing the winner, The Bookseller said:
"'Stray Shopping Carts' joins a noble pantheon of Diagram
winners, perhaps closest in spirit to those rural guides 'How To
Shit in the Woods: An Environmentally Sound Approach to a Lost
Art' (1989) and 'Weeds in a Changing World' (1999)".


Horace Bent, diarist at The Bookseller, added: "In the fine
tradition of the prize 'going on title alone' I have not yet read
my copy of Montague's tome."


But he said his appetite had been whetted by a review on online
retailer Amazon that described it as "one of the most complete
and well thought-out works I have ever encountered".


Montague himself said he was surprised to have won the accolade.


"I was so deeply into the project that I was a little number to
the fact that the title could surprise other people," he was
quoted by Britain's The Independent newspaper Saturday as saying.


Last year's winner was "People Who Don't Know They're Dead: How
They Attach Themselves To Unsuspecting Bystanders and What to Do
About it".


The competition has been running since 1978, when the winner was
"Proceedings of the Second International Workshop on Nude Mice".


The nominations are made by publishers, booksellers and
librarians from around the world.

