

US envoy Christopher Hill said he would meet with his Chinese
counterpart Saturday as a deadline for North Korea to shut down
its Yongbyon nuclear power plant passes.


Hill said he would meet bilaterally with Wu Dawei, China's envoy
to the six party talks on North Korea's nuclear programme that
also include the two Koreas, Japan and Russia.


"We need to talk to the Chinese about where we stand on the
February 13 agreement and how the Chinese assess the way ahead,"
Hill said of the deal that calls on Pyongyang to shut down its
nuclear plant in exchange for fuel oil and diplomatic
recognition.


"A key opinion here is the Chinese, they are the hosts of this,
they have also worked very hard ... so I'm sure they have some
views on what the DPRK (North Korea) is doing," he told
journalists.


The US envoy said he would also be in touch by phone with his
other counterparts in the talks hosted by Beijing, although he
had no immediate plans to meet with North Korean envoy Kim Kye-
Gwan.


Hill earlier urged North Korea to call in UN nuclear inspectors
immediately or face a joint response from the other parties to
the talks for failing to uphold its part in the denuclearisation
agreement.


"They need to call the IAEA (UN International Atomic Energy
Agency)," Hill said when asked what Pyongyang could do to meet
the deadline.


"That would certainly be an indication that they are getting
ready to do what they agreed in the February agreement."


So far Pyongyang has refused to move due to US sanctions that
have blocked some 25 million dollars in funds in a Macau bank.


But on Friday, North Korea promised to honour the deal once the
frozen assets had been released.


"There is no reason to be pessimistic. We will be faithful to
this agreement if the Americans respect its clauses," Kim Son-
Gyong, deputy director of the foreign ministry's European
department, told AFP in an interview in Pyongyang.


"We will respect our commitment as it is written in the February
13 agreement. No more and no less," he said.

