

Wall Street's red-hot winning streak continued Monday, stoked by
US aluminum giant Alcoa's 33-billion-dollar hostile bid for
Canadian rival Alcan.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average climbed 21.78 points (0.16
percent) to 13,286.40 in the first trades, after setting another
all-time record closing high Friday.


The blue-chip index has risen in 22 of the past 25 trading days.


The Nasdaq composite edged up 1.97 points (0.08 percent) to
2,574.12 and the broad-market Standard & Poor's 500 index
added 2.43 points (0.16 percent) to 1,508.05.


The US stock market rallied last week, setting a flurry of record
highs. The Dow gained 1.09 percent compared with the prior week,
the Nasdaq took on 0.58 percent and the S&P 500 rose 0.77
percent.


"Some more M&A news has armed the bulls with an opportunity
to build on five consecutive weeks of market gains," analysts at
Briefing.com said, citing the bid by Alcoa, a Dow component.


"Investors are also finding comfort in some upbeat commentary
from Warren Buffett. The billionaire investor said Sunday (at)
Berkshire Hathaway's annual shareholder meeting that it is open
to making a "huge" acquisition," they wrote in a note to
investors.


Alcoa said Monday it was launching a hostile bid of 33 billion
dollars for Canadian rival Alcan, saying the acquisition would
create the world's biggest aluminum company.


The bid, if successful, would forge a behemoth with 54 billion
dollars in revenues, 190,000 employees and a big global footprint
with operations in Europe, North America, Asia, Australia and
elsewhere, and a "top five" global metals firm, Alcoa said.


Shares in Alcan shot up 32.16 percent to 80.66 dollars, while
Alcoa rose 5.16 percent to 37.51 dollars.


The only economic data to be released Monday was consumer credit
for March, a figure that rarely moves the market.


Investors were expected to remain guarded until Wednesday, when
the Federal Reserve's policymakers decide on interest rates.
Market-watchers forecast the Fed will leave its key rate
unchanged at 5.25 percent.


Bonds firmed amid the scarce economic news. The yield on the
10-year US Treasury bond eased to 4.638 percent from 4.640
percent while that on the 30-year bond dropped to 4.796 percent
against 4.804 percent. Bond yields and prices move in opposite
directions.

