

The UN special envoy for Kosovo, Martti Ahtisaari, said Monday he
saw no alternative to his proposal for supervised independence
for the province.


"There is no plan B.... If we open for changes and new proposals
we are opening a Pandora's box," Ahtisaari told a media
conference in Stockholm.


The former Finnish president has presented a plan that would give
Kosovo and the territory's ethnic Albanian majority
internationally supervised independence. NATO troops would
provide security while economic assistance would come from the
European Union.


Ahtisaari said he hoped none of the permanent members of the
Security Council would use their veto when the plan comes up for
discussion in a few weeks.


The plan has the backing of the EU, the United States and the
leaders of the ethnic Albanians who comprise around 90 percent of
Kosovo's two million inhabitants.


But Serbia and Russia oppose the plan. Serbia sees the province
as its historic heartland and has proposed that Kosovo be given
monitored autonomy instead.


Moscow rejects the plan as a violation of Serbia's territorial
integrity and has threatened to use its veto and prevent full UN
Security Council backing of the proposal.


Ahtisaari said he had noted the Russian reaction to the proposal.
"With 30 years of experience one must be used to criticism," he
said.


Kosovo has been administered by a UN mission since mid-1999,
after a NATO bombing campaign ended the brutal crackdown by
Serbian forces against the province's Albanians.

