

UN chief Ban Ki-moon is "deeply disturbed" by the weekend attack
on a school run by the UN agency for Palestinian refugees in the
Gaza Strip, his office said Monday.


Sunday's incident, in which one Palestinian was killed and six
others wounded, is "the latest of a series of intra-Palestinian
clashes that have claimed innocent and unarmed victims," UN
spokeswoman Michele Montas said in a statement.


Gunmen from a religious extremist group opened fire and threw
grenades at the entrance of the school in the southern town of
Rafah as students, parents and teachers were leaving after a
party.


The UN secretary general urged the Palestinian National Unity
government to act to ensure law and order, including the
protection of humanitarian organizations such as the UN Relief
and Works Agency (UNRWA).


UNRWA, the largest UN agency with more than 25,000 employees, was
established in the aftermath of the 1948 Arab-Israeli war to
provide relief for upwards of 700,000 Palestinian refugees
uprooted by the war.


Today the agency provides education, health, relief and social
services to more than 4.3 million registered Palestinian refugees
in Jordan, Lebanon, Syria, the West Bank and the Gaza Strip.


Ban also called on the Palestinian Authority to "take all actions
needed to halt immediately the firing of rockets against Israeli
population centers".


Earlier Monday, an Israeli air raid against a car in Gaza wounded
one Palestinian militant, a day after a rocket attack by Islamic
Jihad wounded an Israeli in the southern Israeli town of Sderot.

