

Embattled Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert was due to face
motions of no- confidence in parliament on Monday, the latest
backlash over a scathing inquiry into his handling of last year's
Lebanon war.


Parliament began debating three no-confidence motions that were
lodged by both right-wing and left-wing opposition parties at an
afternoon session.


Most observers do not expect the measures to pass as Olmert still
enjoys the support of most of his 78-member coalition in the
120-seat chamber.


"A storm is brewing in all corners of the country," Benjamin
Netanyahu, the leader of the right-wing Likud opposition party
that lodged one of the motions, said as he opened the debate.


"The people are telling you a simple thing -- you have failed.
Accept the responsibility and go home," said the former premier.
"But members of the government are trying to hide from the storm.
They say 'we have a majority in the chamber' and are mocking the
people."


"Your errors can only be repaired by new elections," said
Netanyahu, whose Likud party would win early elections according
to all recent opinion polls.


Ran Cohen of the left-wing Meretz party, which also sponsored one
of the motions, echoed the calls, saying Olmert's government led
the country into a "crazy adventure" during last year's war.


"Because of you, the country is doubting its future," he said.
"Go home."


The parliament debate follows a mass rally last Thursday at which
between 150,000 and 200,000 Israelis, according to police and
organiser estimates, called on the Olmert government to step down
in the wake of the damning report.


Despite their predicted failure, Monday's votes will add to the
mounting pressure on Olmert, already weakened by months of
criticism over the war and a string of scandals marring his
government that have sunk his ratings to single digits.


So far the master politician has refused to resign over the
interim report released a week ago, saying that it would be
irresponsible and vowing to correct the mistakes uncovered.


The report blasted Olmert for serious failures in his handling of
the conflict, and said that Defence Minister Amir Peretz and ex-
chief of staff Dan Halutz failed in their posts, but stopped
short of calling for resignations.


Olmert managed to put down a mutiny within his centrist Kadima
party over the report last week, despite a call from key ally
Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni to step down.


Following a closed-door meeting between the two on Sunday, Livni
pledged to keep working in an Olmert-led cabinet.


But new trouble could be brewing for the premier within his main
coalition partner Labour, observers say.


The party is due to elect a new leader in late May and so far all
the front- runners to take the helm from Peretz have indicated
that they favour pulling Labour out of the coalition unless
Olmert quits.


Labour currently has 19 seats in parliament and its departure
would leave Olmert's coalition with 59 seats -- two short of a
majority.


Under such a scenario, Olmert would have to cobble together a new
coalition, resign or face early elections.

