

Wall Street accelerated its red-hot winning streak Monday, stoked
by merger and activity fever over US aluminum giant Alcoa's 33
-billion-dollar hostile bid for Canadian rival Alcan.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average climbed 27.47 points (0.21
percent) to 13,292.09 around 1430 GMT, after setting a fourth
consecutive record closing high Friday.


The Nasdaq composite edged up 3.35 points (0.13 percent) to
2,575.50 and the broad-market Standard & Poor's 500 index
added 3.64 points (0.24 percent) to 1,509.26.


The US stock market rallied last week, setting a flurry of record
highs. The Dow gained 1.09 percent compared with the prior week,
the Nasdaq took on 0.58 percent and the S&P 500 rose 0.77
percent.


"The (Dow) advance from the March low near 12,000 has been
impressive, is now getting excessive, but does not appear to be
done yet," Bob Dickey, an analyst at RBC Dain Rauscher, said.


"With what was near a zero gain first quarter, the market pace
for the year is now greater than the long-term historical
average."


Analysts at Briefing.com said the continuing stream of merger and
acquisition activity, like Alcoa's bid, was helping drive the
market: "Some more M&A news has armed the bulls with an
opportunity to build on five consecutive weeks of market gains.


"Investors are also finding comfort in some upbeat commentary
from Warren Buffett. The billionaire investor said Sunday (at)
Berkshire Hathaway's annual shareholder meeting that it is open
to making a "huge" acquisition," they wrote in a note to
investors.


Alcoa, one of the Dow's 30 components, said Monday it was
launching a hostile bid of 33 billion dollars for Canadian rival
Alcan, saying the acquisition would create the world's biggest
aluminum company.


"That's a 20 percent premium to Alcan's closing price on Friday,
but if you look closely, the market thinks there is more to come
with respect to the bid, either in terms of the price Alcoa will
pay or a price some other suitor will be willing to pay," Dick
Green of Briefing.com said.


Shares in Alcan shot up 32.59 percent to 80.92 dollars, while
Alcoa rose 6.45 percent to 37.96 dollars.


The market focused on the Federal Reserve's interest rate
decision Wednesday. Although the Fed was expected to leave its
key federal funds rate unchanged at 5.25 percent, investors were
expected to pore over the accompanying statement for clues to
rate direction.


Most analysts suspect the central bank will wait to make sure
inflation is under control before cutting interest rates to spur
the sluggish US economy, which grew at an annualized 1.3 percent
in the first quarter.


Bonds firmed amid the scarce economic news. The yield on the
10-year US Treasury bond eased to 4.630 percent from 4.640
percent while that on the 30-year bond dropped to 4.789 percent
against 4.804 percent. Bond yields and prices move in opposite
directions.

