

Four Kurdish militants, including one woman, were sentenced
Monday to life in jail for a 1999 petrol bomb attack on an
Istanbul shopping mall that killed 13 people, Anatolia news
agency reported.


The court said the attack was part of a violent separatist
campaign to carve out an independent Kurdish state in southeast
Turkey.


It also stripped the three men, who along with the woman had
denied the charges, of any chance of parole.


The attack on March 13, 1999 occurred amid a wave of Kurdish
violence following the capture of Kurdish rebel leader Abdullah
Ocalan in Kenya.


The assailants hurled molotov cocktails at the perfume department
near the entrance of the mall, sparking a fire that blocked the
only exit and quickly engulfed the six-storey building in Kadikoy
district, on Istanbul's Asian side.


The victims were either burnt to death or suffocated. The mall,
packed with weekend shoppers, lacked a fire escape.


Ocalan, the leader of the rebel Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK),
was condemned to death for separatism in June 1999, but his
sentence was commuted to life in jail after Turkey abolished
capital punishment as part of reforms to boost its bid to join
the European Union.


Since then, Ankara has also granted its sizeable Kurdish minority
a degree of cultural freedoms.


Kurdish activists, however, remain unsatisfied and the PKK,
listed as a terrorist group by Ankara and much of the
international community, refuses to disarm.


The conflict has claimed more than 37,000 lives since 1984 when
the PKK launched its armed campaign for self-rule in the Kurdish-
majority southeast.

