

Fans of "Spider-Man 3" can look forward to a stream of sequels
after the blockbuster's record-breaking opening at the box-
office, reports said Monday.


Buoyed by the film's money-spinning debut, Sony Pictures
Entertainment co-chair Amy Pascal squashed speculation that the
franchise had reached its conclusion with the latest instalment.


"There'll be a fourth and a fifth and sixth and a seventh,"
Pascal told entertainment journal Daily Variety. "As many stories
as Peter Parker has to tell we'll do sequels."


The possibility of "Spider-Man 3" being the last in the series
had been raised by the film's star Tobey Maguire who told
interviewers earlier this year: "To me it seems like this is a
natural point for the team to break up."


"It feels like a trilogy to me and it feels like the end," he
added.


Industry figures released Sunday saw "Spider-Man 3" smash a
series of records, with the web-spinning Marvel Comics hero
getting the North American blockbuster season off to a flying
start.


Figures said the film netted 148 million dollars on its opening
weekend.


It dwarfed the previous record, set last year by Disney's
"Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest," which earned 135.6
million in its first three days.


The single-day takings for "Spider-Man 3" on Friday came to 59
million, also beating the "Pirates" record of 55.8 million in
July 2006.


The film also set a new worldwide box-office opening record of
375 million dollars, easily outstripping the global take of
2005's "Star Wars: Episode III - Revenge of the Sith."


The record opening means the film has already started to return a
hefty profit after costing around 258 million dollars to make.


The highest-earning film in history is "Titanic", which has
earned more than 1.8 billion dollars worldwide since its 1997
release.

