

US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice has put off a visit to
Israel and the Palestinian territories due to the domestic
political woes of Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert, a senior
official said Monday.


Rice was to have met Israeli and Palestinian leaders immediately
following a trip to Moscow next week, but cancelled due to the
fallout from an official Israeli report harshly criticizing
Olmert's handling of last year's war in Lebanon, the official
said.


"It's a change in plans, yes," State Department spokesman Sean
McCormack said after revealing that Rice would not be stopping in
Israel or the Palestinian areas on next week's trip.


"The political situation in Israel has become a bit more complex
in the near term," he said, referring to widespread calls for
Olmert to resign over the report released a week ago into the
government's handling of a costly 34-day war with Lebanon's
Hezbollah militia.


"There's, obviously, a lot of politics in Israel that they are
working through at this point, but we are going to continue our
efforts to advance the Israeli- Palestinian track," he said.


A senior official said that Rice may, instead, meet in Egypt with
her counterparts from Russia, the European Union and the United
Nations -- all parties in the so-called Quartet of Middle East
peace mediators.


The Lebanon war report sparked a mass anti-government rally in
Tel Aviv last week and prompted calls for Olmert's resignation,
including from his deputy and foreign minister, Tzipi Livni.


But Olmert survived a series of no-confidence votes in parliament
on Monday thanks to his coalition's legislative majority.

