

An underwear and clothing line bearing the name of five-time
Wimbledon champion Bjorn Borg was listed on the Stockholm stock
exchange's main market on Monday, the exchange said.


"The Iceman", famous for his headband, flowing locks and steely
nerve on court, launched a line of trendy, sporty underwear in
1997.


The collection has since grown to include accessories, scents and
eyeglasses, and in December 2006 the tennis legend sold his name
to the company Bjorn Borg AB though he remains involved in the
marketing and design of products.


The company, which had been listed on the Stockholm stock
exchange's secondary market since December 2004, was introduced
on the main OMX market on Monday for 142 kronor (21 dollars,
15.50 euros) per share.


By midafternoon, the share was trading just below its
introductory price, at 141.75 kronor.


Bjorn Borg products are sold in a dozen countries in Europe,
including Sweden and the Netherlands.


In 2006, the group registered sales of 324.6 million kronor (35.4
million euros), a 76.8 percent rise from a year earlier.


Today aged 50, Borg, who holds 62 championship titles including
five from Wimbledon and six from the French Open, retired from
professional tennis in 1983 at the age of 26.


After retiring, he went on to lose money to a number of business
ventures and divorces.


He is regularly reported to be in financial trouble, and tax
authorities in high-tax Sweden keep a close eye on his business
interests.


Borg last year announced that, in order to shore up his family's
finances, he would sell the five Wimbledon singles trophies which
he won in straight years between 1976 and 1980. But he eventually
abandoned that plan.

