

European stock markets were stable amid subdued levels of trade
on Monday, with the London exchange closed for a bank holiday.


In Paris the CAC 40 added 0.04 percent to 6,071.48 points while
in Frankfurt the Dax gained 0.12 percent to finish at 7,525.69.


The Euro Stoxx 50 index of leading eurozone shares slipped by
0.10 percent to 4,441.31 points, and the euro traded for 1.3617
dollars.


On Wall Street, the Dow Jones Industrial Average had gained 0.30
percent to 13,304.85 points in early deals, and the Nasdaq
Composite was up by 0.16 percent at 2,576.21.


The broad Standard and Poor's 500 index showed a gain of 0.28
percent to 1,509.82.


In Asia, the Tokyo Stock Exchange Nikkei index jumped by 1.58
percent to 17,669.83 points as the market played catch up after a
four-day weekend with Wall Street's record breaking performance
last week.


Dealers said the weaker yen against the dollar also helped
sentiment, especially in the exporters who benefit directly,
helping boost stocks across the board.


Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index closed up 0.27 percent at 20,896.64.


In Paris, the French stock market took the election of rightwing
reformer Nicolas Sarkozy as president in its stride, showing
little change in modest trading after a surge on Friday before
the weekend vote.


Analysts said the French market had anticipated that Sarkozy
would defeat rival Socialist candidate Segolene Royal, and
attention quickly turned to general elections in early June.


At brokers CM CIC, analysts said: "The current (rightwing)
majority in the assembly has a strong chance of benefiting from
the presidential dynamics and to emerge with at least as many
seats from this new test, and might even be stronger."


But "in the short term, the markets are following a global logic
and are unlikely to over-react to the event," they said.


Gas utility GDF gained 4.77 percent to reach 36.88 euros on
speculation of a possible merger with energy group Suez or a move
by Sonatrach of Algeria to take a stake in GDF's capital.


The construction group Bouygues added 3.50 percent to reach 62.08
euros as analysts again mentioned the possibility that its
Bouygues Telecom unit could be sold off.


A deal would allow Bouygues to increase its stake in the
engineering group Alstom, whose shares gained 3.59 percent to
118.0 euros, or acquire a holding in nuclear group Areva, which
saw its stock gain 2.54 percent to 767.0 euros.


In Frankfurt meanwhile, shares in the chemical group Altana
exploded by 13.08 percent to hit 22.39 euros.


Altana, which sold its drugs unit in December, saw sharp
variations in its price last week as it came into the sights of
speculators, and Monday's gain was described as a technical
rebound.


Shares in Puma, the world's number three sportswear manufacturer,
were down 0.30 percent to 335 euros after it lowered its 2007
forecasts on the back of worse- than-expected results in the
first quarter.


The German group, which is the subject of a takeover bid by
French luxury goods empire PPR, said it now expected sales this
year to rise from between one and five percent, having previously
forecast five to 10 percent.


"This profit warning is a surprise," a trader said.


In Amsterdam, the AEX index added a slight 0.07 percent to 540.03
points, the Swiss SMI was unchanged at 9,455.54, in Milan the
SP/Mib gave up 0.06 percent to 43,948 points, in Madrid the
Ibex-35 rose by 0.35 percent to 14,672.1 and in Brussels the
Bel-20 set another record high, adding 0.43 percent to close at
4,739.58 points.

