

UN chief Ban Ki-moon welcomes the Saudi-brokered reconciliation
deal reached last week by Sudanese President Omar al-Beshir and
Chadian President Idriss Deby Itno, his office said Monday.


A statement by Ban's spokeswoman Michele Montas said the accord
was "a positive step" toward normalizing Sudanese-Chadian
relations and a "very important factor in resolving the tragic
conflicts in both Darfur and eastern Chad."


Under the terms of the accord signed in the Saudi capital Riyadh
last  Thursday, the two countries agreed "to prevent the use of
their territory to shelter, mobilize, train, transit or finance
armed opposition movements."


They also decided "to work immediately to distance these
movements from their territory," while maintaining "respect for
the sovereignty and (territorial) integrity" of both countries.


Ban said it was now crucial for the two neighboring African
countries "to honor their agreements and, in close collaboration
with the United Nations and the African Union, to work together
to achieve lasting peace and stability."


He also praised Saudi Arabia's efforts to facilitate the
conclusion of the deal.


Sudan and Chad accuse each other of supporting rebel forces in
their respective territories amid international fears that the
continuing strife in Darfur will spill over into Chad and ignite
a regional war.


Relations between the two countries nose-dived after deadly
border clashes between Sudanese and Chadian soldiers on April 9
in and around the war-torn Darfur region of western Sudan.


Chad apologized to Sudan but said it was in hot pursuit of rebels
who had crossed into Darfur. Khartoum said 17 of its soldiers
were killed.

