

A militant group allied to Al-Qaeda claimed on Monday that it had
captured nine Iraqi army and police personnel, and demanded the
release of Sunni women held in Iraqi prisons.


The self-styled Islamic State of Iraq -- an alliance led by Al-
Qaeda in Iraq -- said those detained include high-ranking
officers and that they were seized in Diyala province, according
to a videotape posted on the Internet.


Footage posted on a website usually used by Islamist militants
showed five men in army uniforms and four others wearing the blue
uniforms of the interior ministry.


The group demanded the release of all Sunni Muslim women held by
Iraqi security forces, and also demanded that officers accused of
raping a Sunni woman in Baghdad around three months ago be handed
over to them.


Similar demands were made after previous kidnappings, although
the Iraqi interior ministry has suggested that in some cases
captured civilians were dressed up as police officers before
their murder.


On April 19, the same group aired a videotape showing the
purported execution of 20 officers after the government failed to
meet the same demands made by the group.


The alleged rape of the woman, who appeared in footage broadcast
on Arab networks saying she had been violated by interior
ministry officers, triggered a bitter row at the highest levels
in Iraq.


Some Sunni leaders promoted her claims, but the Shiite prime
minister dismissed them, alleging that the rape had been
fabricated by Sunni politicians to tarnish the police at the
launch of a Baghdad security crackdown.

