

EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana said Monday he plans fresh
talks with Iran's top security official "in the coming weeks" to
discuss a UN demand that Tehran freeze uranium enrichment.


"Probably we will have a meeting with (Ali) Larijani in the
coming weeks, as soon as possible to see if we can move on,"
Solana told the European Parliament's foreign affairs committee
in Brussels.


He added that it would be difficult to organise such a meeting
this week.


Following their last meeting in Ankara on April 25-26, Larijani
and Solana agreed to meet two weeks later, without specifying a
date or venue.


Solana told the parliamentarians that the Ankara talks, their
first since the UN Security Council adopted sanctions against
Tehran over its nuclear ambitions, did not lead to "any specific
breakthrough."


Solana said that he had stressed that Tehran should suspend its
uranium enrichment operations for the duration of the full-scale
international negotiations with Iran.


At the moment even that guarantee is very difficult to obtain;
"they don't want to suspend," he said.


The United States has charged that Iran is using its nuclear
programme to secretly develop an atomic bomb, a claim Tehran
denies maintaining its nuclear activities are for peaceful
purposes.


Solana said the international talks on resolving the problem,
involving Britain, France, Germany, China, Russia and the United
States could take place with a double suspension; of Iran's
nuclear enrichment and of the UN sanctions.


Such talks shouldn't carry on indefinitely but should take around
six months, he added.

