

An Israeli air raid against a car in Gaza wounded one Palestinian
militant on Monday, a day after a rocket strike wounded an
Israeli in the south of the Jewish state.


The raid in the northern town of Jabaliya targeted militants from
the radical Islamic Jihad group, witnesses told AFP. Medics said
the wounded man was a member of the group.


An Israeli army spokesman confirmed "an air raid in northern Gaza
that targeted a vehicle that was carrying arms and was on its way
to launch rockets."


The previous day a rocket attack by Islamic Jihad wounded an
Israeli in the southern town of Sderot. Another rocket fired
early on Monday landed near a nursery school but caused no
injuries.


Prime Minister Ehud Olmert warned on Monday that Israel would
eventually react to the rocket fire.


"The Qassam (rocket) attacks constitute a real threat against
Israel," his office quoted him as telling visiting German Foreign
Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier. "Israel will not be able to
hold back for ever."


Olmert "emphasised that Israel will react harshly to the ongoing
rocket fire which threatens the lives of the residents in the
western Negev," the statement said.


Islamic Jihad was not party to a November truce under which
Israeli troops pulled out of Gaza in return for a commitment from
militants to end rocket fire from the territory.


Despite violations by both sides, the truce has largely held. The
Israeli army says some 270 rockets have been fired into Israel
since the ceasefire, most of them hitting without causing
casualties or damage.

