

Armor Holdings, a US defense firm which also serves law
enforcement agencies, said Monday it agreed to be taken over by
British defense group BAE Systems for 4.5 billion dollars.


BAE already has a presence in the US market, but a takeover of
Florida-based Armor would significantly boost its operations in
one of the world's largest defense markets.


"BAE Systems, Inc. has agreed to acquire all of the outstanding
stock of Armor Holdings, Inc. for 4.1 billion, or a price per
common share of 88.00 dollars through a one-step merger," Armor
said in a statement.


The British firm will also assume some 388 million dollars in
Armor debt under the deal's terms which has to be approved by
Armor's shareholders and the US government.


"We are excited to move this business to the next phase of its
development.  We have no doubt that BAE Systems will place the
needs of our customer and those of the men and women in uniform
who depend on our products at the center of their ongoing
effort," said Armor president Robert Schiller.


The Florida company makes and supplies "tactical" vehicles,
security equipment and vehicle armor systems for military, law
enforcement and commercial customers and booked net profits of
214 million dollars in 2006.


Armor employs over 8,000 workers and claims a presence in 63
countries.


The acquisition is subject to regulatory approval under US
national security laws.


Britain's Labour government dropped a probe into a multi-billion
pound (dollar) BAE arms deal with Saudi Arabia late last year in
a case that generated widespread media scrutiny in London.


Britain's Serious Fraud Office had been investigating allegations
that BAE had set up a secret slush fund for members of the Saudi
royal family to secure continued business, dating back to a big
arms deal in the 1980s.


But the government stopped the probe in December on "national
interest" grounds after it said Saudi Arabia had threatened to
sever security links if it continued.

