

Rising Chinese star Li Na defeated Maria Kirilenko of Russia as
action got underway on Monday in the rain-affected German Open, a
key claycourt warm-up for the French Open.


Li, the 14th seed, had to work hard to overcome the Russian after
losing the second set before winning 6-1, 3-6, 6-1.


In other first-round matches, 13th seed Shahar Peer of Israel
beat German hope Anna-Lena Groenefeld 6-1, 6-2 and France's
Severine Bremond was a 6-2, 6-1 winner over another German
player, Sabine Lisicki.


The 1.34-million-dollar Berlin tournament marks the return to
action of world number three Amelie Mauresmo after more than two
months' absence following an operation for appendicitis.


The French player has just the Berlin and Rome tournaments to
prepare for Roland Garros.


Mauresmo said: "My concern is to return to the circuit after a
two-month-long break.


"I feel physically fit, there are no aches or pains. But of
course I don't know what will happen when I'm back on the centre
court having to play my first match again."


World number eight Nicole Vaidisova of the Czech Republic pulled
out of the Berlin tournament because of a wrist injury.


The German-born Vaidisova, who reached the semi-finals of the
Australian Open this year, will be replaced in the draw by 16
-year-old Austrian Tamira Paszek, who will face Meghann
Shaughnessy of the United States in the first round.


"I'm very disappointed to not be able to play in Berlin,"
Vaidisova said. "I flew all the way here hoping my wrist would
get better. I was born in Nuremberg and this is why I feel a
special connection to Germany."


Top seed Justine Henin headed for the German capital after
winning the rain- delayed final in the Warsaw Cup tournament on
Monday, beating Ukraine's Alona Bondarenko 6-1, 6-3 for her third
tournament victory of the year.

