

EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana on Monday voiced support
for Serbian President Boris Tadic's bid to control national
security posts linked to cooperation with the UN war crimes
court.


The issue is key to moves to form a new government in Serbia
three months after inconclusive legislative elections there.


Talks on forming the government "cannot go forward because
President Tadic and the current prime minister (Vojislav
Kostunica) can't find a balanced way to split the tasks between
them," said Solana, who spoke with Tadic earlier in the day.


Under Serbia's constitution, the parties have until May 14 to
form a new government or new elections must be called.


"The president is determined to work with the international
court. For this he needs to have the cooperation of the nation's
security services... (and) intelligence services," Solana said.


He spoke at a European parliamentary committee, adding that the
president's party also needed to control the interior ministry,
which he said Kostunica was demanding for his Democratic Party of
Serbia (DSS).


A year ago the European Commission froze a Stabilisation and
Association Agreement (SAA) with Belgrade, chiefly over its
failure to surrender former Bosnian Serb army chief Ratko Mladic,
believed to be hiding in Serbia, to the International Criminal
Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia.


In March the EU's executive arm insisted that "competent" people
be given the key posts linked to cooperation with the court.


Last week Tadic said that Kostunica, a moderate nationalist, was
insisting on his DSS controlling the police and the secret
services against the wishes of the president's Democrats.


Kostunica's DSS and Tadic's Democrats, along with the liberal G17
Plus party, have been negotiating to forge a ruling coalition
after January 21 elections left no party with an outright
majority in the 250-seat parliament.

