

A Spanish Catholic archbishop on Monday said far-right political
parties such as the fascist Falange were "worthy of consideration
and support", ahead of regional and local elections on May 27.


"Today in Spain, there are some political parties that want to be
faithful to the social doctrine of the church in its entirety,"
said Fernando Sebastian Aguilar, archbishop of Pamplona, in
comments published online by his office.


"All these parties receive little consideration," he continued,
but insisted: "They have a nominal value which could justify
being voted for."


Such movements may have little individual impact on Spanish
politics but "could form important alliances if they achieved a
significant amount of support from catholic citizens," he said.


"For this reason they cannot be considered to be obligatory but
they are worthy of consideration and support," Aguilar concluded.


The Falange, which was named by the archbishop along with other
far-right groups, is a fascist organisation founded by Jose
Antonio Primo de Rivera, the ideological mentor of former Spanish
dictator Francisco Franco.


Today it claims to be a movement "defending Spanish patriotism
and revolutionary trade unionism."


Aguilar acknowledged the church could not tell people who to vote
for, but said it could urge followers not to support those who
"directly support clearly immoral (abortion, euthanasia, anti-
family laws)."


The phrase "anti-family law" refers to the socialist government's
2005 law which legalised homosexual marriages, prompting major
protests by catholics. At the time, Aguilar warned of the
possibility of a "homosexual epidemic."

