

Pakistan and India wrapped a two-day meeting Saturday without any
agreement on withdrawal of troops from the mountainous Siachen
glacier in disputed Kashmir, officials said.


The talks between their top defence ministry officials were held
in Rawalpindi near the capital Islamabad as part of the ongoing
peace dialogue between the nuclear-armed south Asian rivals.


"There was no significant breakthrough in the talks," a Pakistan
defence ministry official told AFP.


The official said the Indian side did not budge from its position
that Pakistan should disclose the current location of its forces
on the 6,300 metre (20,800-feet) high glacier before any
withdrawal of troops.


Pakistani side said such a move would mean acceptance of "their
occupation" of the barren heights. Pakistan wants to go back to
the pre-1987 positions.


"The two sides have agreed to continue the dialogue process," the
official said.


The Indian side was led by Defence Secretary Shekhar Dutt while
Pakistani side was headed by Kamran Rasool.


The Indian army, which has occupied most of the high-altitude
battlefield since 1987, wants "iron-clad" evidence of existing
troop positions to dissuade Pakistan from moving its soldiers
forward in the event of a pull-out.


Kashmir is divided between Pakistan and India and is claimed by
both in full. It has caused two of the three wars between the
neighbours since their independence in 1947 from Britain.


Analysts say the value of Siachen itself is mostly symbolic
rather than strategic.


Indian premier Singh on Thursday called a meeting of his security
cabinet to chalk out a framework for the Siachen talks. He was
later quoted as saying he was "hopeful" of a positive outcome.


Experts say India has around 5,000 troops on the glacier while
Pakistan has less than half the number on the frigid wasteland
where temperatures plummet to minus 50 degrees Celsius (minus 58
degrees Fahrenheit).

