

France's Tatiana Golovin defeated sixth seed Ana Ivanovic of
Serbia 6-4, 3-6, 6-4 in the semi-finals of the 600,000 dollar WTA
Amelia Island tournament on Saturday.


The 19-year-old Golovin advances to Sunday's final where she will
face the winner of the other semi-final between top seeded
Russian Nadia Petrova and No. 13 Sybille Bammer of Austria.


Using a series of service breaks in the third set, the eighth-
seeded Golovin is one win away from an elusive first career WTA
title.


A French citizen who was born in Moscow, Golovin is headed to her
fourth career final and first since Stuttgart a year ago. She
turned pro in 2002.


Last month at Indian Wells, Golovin, the world's 20th ranked
player, defeated an ailing Petrova but lost to Bammer in her next
match.


Golovin avoided a similar letdown in this Tier II claycourt
event. One day after her straight-sets victory over crowd
favourite Venus Williams, she took the first set from Ivanovic,
who was coming off an upset of second-seeded countrywoman Jelena
Jankovic.


The Serbian stunner rebounded to win the second set but stumbled
in the third set, when the players traded a handful of service
breaks. Golovin scored the crucial one, going up, 5-2.


Ivanovic broke and held, but Golovin closed out the match with an
overhand winner.


Ranked seventh in the world, Petrova won the Paris Indoors
earlier this season.


She moved into the semi-finals with a 6-4, 7-5 win over fifth-
seeded compatriot Dinara Safina.


Bammer rallied for a 2-6, 6-2, 6-2 victory over third-seeded
Daniela Hantuchova of Slovakia in the quarter-finals. She is
looking for her second career title, having won earlier this year
at Pattaya City.

