

The Iraqi government has agreed to a new meeting between its
neighbours and world powers in Egypt next month, Foreign Minister
Hoshyar Zebari said Saturday


"The Iraqi government agreed to hold the next ministerial meeting
of Iraq neighbouring countries, plus the G5 (UN Security Council
veto-wielding permanent members) and G8 (most industrialised
nations) in Egypt, most probably in Sharm el-Sheikh on May 3 and
4," Zebari told a Baghdad news conference.


An ambassador-level conference held in Baghdad on March 10 to
discuss the security situation in Iraq saw the United States and
regional foes Iran and Syria hold rare direct talks.


That meeting was due to be followed up by the ministerial-level
conference, which could see US Secretary of State Condoleezza
Rice meet her Iranian counterpart -- a meeting that the US State
Department has not ruled out.


Although Zebari did not specify the individual breakdown of the
guest list for the May talks, he expressed hope that it would
lead to dialogue and said it could present an opportunity to help
break the "deadlock".


Against a background of increasing tension across the region,
Zebari said the expanded ministerial meeting was "very
important".


"We hope it will lead to some dialogue, contact between those
regional powers and international powers," he told the news
conference.


"As a forum, as a platform, there may be opportunities for
breaking the deadlock which would be helpful to my country
because we need a conducive, supportive regional environment for
us to succeed," he added.


On Thursday, US State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said
Rice does not rule out a bilateral meeting with her Iranian
counterpart Manouchehr Mottaki on the sidelines of an
international conference on Iraq in early May.

