

A Canadian soldier killed in the battle of Vimy Ridge in World
War I was buried with full military honours Saturday as Canada
prepared to mark the 90th anniversary of an event that
strengthened the country's national identity.


The body of Private Herbert Peterson was discovered in 2003 and
identified through DNA. He was buried in at La Chaudiere cemetery
in the shadow of the ridge near Arras in northern France at a
ceremony attended by relatives.


"It is very gratifying that we can properly put to rest a
Canadian who made the ultimate sacrifice for our country and our
way of life", Canadian Veteran Affairs Minister Greg Thompson
said.


"We are now also able to share Private Peterson's full story of
courage with other Canadians, and we will remember him as we mark
the 90th anniversary of the Battle of Vimy Ridge."


Also present was the chief of staff of the Canadian armed forces,
General Rick Hillier.


The capture of Vimy Ridge, a crucial vantage point for whoever
held it, was the main achievement of the Battle of Arras,
launched on April 9, 1917, by British and Commonwealth forces.


Almost 100,000 Canadian soldiers took four days to wrest control
of the heavily- fortified escarpment from the German army, losing
more than 3,500 men in the process.


It was the first time all four divisions of the Canadian Corps
had gone into battle together.


Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper, Britain's Queen Elizabeth
II and French Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin will join in
the commemorations on Monday at the towering Canadian national
memorial on the summit of the ridge, which has just been
renovated for the occasion.

