

Leaders Schalke 04 tightened their grip on the Bundesliga title
Saturday as they got back to winning ways with a 2-0 victory at
home to tailenders Borussia Monchengladbach.


After last week's 2-0 loss at Bayern, Schalke coach Mirko Slomka
desperately needed a win to keep their advantage as the Ruhr side
bid for their first Bundesliga title since 1958.


But with six games left this season, and their challengers VfB
Stuttgart securing a 4-2 win over Hamburg and champions Bayern a
2-1 victory at Hanover, the battle for the championship is far
from over.


After a sluggish first half, Schalke took control through a goal
from German international Gerald Asamoah after 57 minutes with
Kevin Kuranyi adding the second after 71 minutes.


The win lifts Schalke, who have won just one of their six away
games in the Bundesliga, four points clear of VfB Stuttgart (52)
who move into second spot ahead of Werder Bremen.


Werder Bremen, who have 51 points, can however reclaim the second
place Sunday when they hosts Nuremberg.


Fourth-placed Bayern, whose 2-2 draw at AC Milan on Tuesday has
left them with one foot in the Champions League semi-finals, are
six points behind the leaders.


The Bavarians proved that they can never be ruled out as they
bounced back after going a goal down a minute before the break
through Hanover's Dutch midfielder Arnold Bruggink.


Martin Demichelis got the equaliser after 52 minutes and Bastian
Schweinsteiger the winner after 70.


VfB Stuttgart proved their title credientials when they raced to
a 3-0 lead after just 27 minutes at Hamburg thanks to goals from
Brazilian striker Cacau (10), Sami Khedira (13) and Roberto
Hilbert (27).


Fernando Meira scored the fourth six minutes after the break
before Hamburg hit back with goals from Czech midfielder David
Jarolim (67) and Croatia striker Ivica Olic (76).

