

An Iranian diplomat freed after being kidnapped in Iraq said on
Saturday he had been "tortured" by his captors, among them US
intelligence officials, the state news agency IRNA reported.


Jalal Sharafi, who was abducted in Baghdad in February, said he
was "subjected to different forms of torture day and night.


"I was kidnapped on a Baghdad street while shopping by officials
who had Iraqi defence ministry ID cards and were riding in
American forces vehicles," he told the agency.


Sharafi, who was the second secretary at the Iranian embassy in
Baghdad, was freed on April 3 amid a standoff over the March 23
seizure of 15 British naval personnel by Iran in northern Gulf
waters.


"The kidnappers took me to a base near Baghdad airport and I was
questioned by Arabic-speaking and English-speaking
interrogators," he said.


"The CIA officials' questions focused mainly on Iran's presence
and influence in Iraq. When faced with my responses on Iran's
official ties with the Iraqi government they increased the
torture," he said.


Sharafi was abducted in Karrada, a predominantly Shiite
southeastern district in Baghdad, outside a branch of the Iranian
state-owned Bank Melli on February 4 by gunmen wearing Iraqi army
uniforms.


The foreign ministry in Tehran claimed at the time that the
United States oversaw Iraq's defence ministry and was therefore
at least complicit in the abduction. Washington denied the
charges.


Sharafi's seizure came amid increasing tension between Iran and
the United States after five Iranians were arrested on January 11
in the northern Iraqi city of Arbil on suspicion of aiding and
abetting the Iraqi insurgency.

