

World Cup organisers, widely accused of pricing local fans out of
the tournament and for stifling atmosphere inside the grounds,
have been forced into an embarrassing climbdown.


In a desperate attempt to salvage the World Cup's reputation as
the event enters its final three weeks, fans will now be allowed
to take musical instruments into grounds without first applying
to the local organising committees.


In another move to try and cure the problem of matches being
played in virtually empty stadiums, the controversial policy of
no re-entry has also been abandoned.


Starting from Saturday's Bangladesh v South Africa Super Eights
match in Guyana, spectators can turn up with their musical
instruments and be given approval as they pass through security.


"Safety must be paramount at matches but we do want everyone to
watch cricket in a festive and lively atmosphere," said World Cup
chief executive Chris Dehring.


"This has already been happening at several matches. There were
lots of people with bands and instruments and noise-makers in
Jamaica and we have seen the same elsewhere, in Guyana and other
venues.


"However, given the spontaneity of Caribbean people, it's easier
for them to bring instruments on match day - once they remain
mindful of security regulations and the need to keep passageways
and exits clear - and be permitted to enter the stadium."


Dehring also announced that starting from the Super Eights games
in Barbados and Grenada next week, fans will be able to re-enter
the grounds.


"As spectators leave the stadium they will be reminded to have
their match ticket on them and will receive a device - yet to be
determined by each local organising committee - which indicates
that they have left the venue," said Dehring.


"When the spectators come back, they would first show both their
match ticket and re-entry device and then go through the same
security procedures as when they first entered the venue."

