

French right-wing candidate Nicolas Sarkozy extended his lead
against his presidential election rivals in a poll to be
published on Sunday, the day before the official campaign period
kicks off.


Unofficial campaigning for the first round of the election on
April 22 has been going on for weeks but from Monday tough
restrictions come into place.


The IFOP poll for the Journal du Dimanche newspaper gives Sarkozy
30 percent of the first-round vote, a two percentage point jump
from a similar survey last week.


Socialist Party candidate Segolene Royal fell one percentage
point to 22 percent, but is still ahead of centrist Francois
Bayrou at 19 percent.


In the second round on May 6, Sarkozy -- the former interior
minister and candidate of the ruling Union for a Popular Movement
Party (UMP) --  would beat Royal by 54 percent to 46 percent, the
poll suggests.


Far-right candidate Jean-Marie Le Pen, who shocked France by
making it to the second round in 2002, is registering 14 percent
in the first round.


The poll was carried out on Thursday and Friday with a
representative sample of 953 registered voters.


From Monday, all 12 of France's presidential candidates -- from
the far left to the far right -- must be given equal air time on
radio and television stations.


The candidates will also be able to air their promotional clips
on public television or radio, but their format will be tightly
regulated.


Official panels for displaying candidates' posters will also be
installed near voting areas in each region of France.


In a first for France, a private company, US-based Clear Channel,
has won the three million-euro (four million-dollar) contract to
handle the posters for all presidential candidates.


Its workers in France were due to strike this week but suspended
the action on Friday. The company assured that all the posters --
about a million in all -- would be done on time.

