

Tehran denied on Saturday that it mistreated 15 British naval
personnel it held for nearly two weeks as the group received
praise at home for their conduct during captivity.


The 15 sailors and marines who were freed on Wednesday described
on their return how they had been stripped, blindfolded and
handcuffed during their detention.


Royal Marine Joe Tindell, 21, said some of them thought they were
about to be executed at one point, and how he, blindfolded with
hands bound, had believed one of their number had had his throat
cut.


This version of events belied the images shown on Iranian
television of some of the group apparently relaxed and joking
during their captivity.


But Ali Akbar Javanfekr, a spokesman for Iranian President
Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, suggested on Saturday that the claims were
made under official "pressure".


"The mistreatment of the sailors is a lie," he said.


"We envisioned that the 15 sailors would be subjected to pressure
by British security and intelligence forces.


"For that reason, President Ahmadinejad asked Prime Minister Tony
Blair not to put pressure on the sailors for having told the
truth, but (he) did not hear this humanitarian appeal."


As the 15 relaxed with their families at the start of two weeks'
compassionate leave, the diplomatic waves from the incident
continued to break.


Rasoul Movahedian, Tehran's ambassador to London -- who was
repeatedly summoned to talks with British officials during the
stand-off -- suggested to the Financial Times that the regime
wanted a payback for releasing the group.


Tehran wants London's help in getting five Iranians held in Iraq
by United States forces released and easing international fears
about its controversial nuclear programme, he indicated.


"We played our part and we showed our good will," he told the
business daily. "Now it is up to the British government to
proceed in a positive way."


However he denied to the paper that the group's liberation was
linked to the case of the Iranians detained in Iraq or the
release Monday in Baghdad of an Iranian diplomat kidnapped at
gunpoint in Iraq in February.


Blair has also insisted there were no side deals done to secure
the release but said on Thursday that diplomatic negotiations had
created new lines of communication between Britain and Iran.


Iran wanted to capitalise on this new dialogue to help "defuse
tensions in the region," Mohavhedian said.


The eight Royal Navy sailors and seven Royal Marines were seized
as they carried out what they said were routine anti-smuggling
operations near the Shatt al-Arab waterway which divides Iraq and
Iran on March 23.


Tehran alleged they had illegally entered Iranian waters, claims
the Britons vehemently denied on Friday, despite apparently
admitting doing so during their detention in Iran.


Ahmadinejad said Wednesday he was releasing the 15 as a "gift" to
the British people.


The 14 men and one woman returned to Britain Thursday and have
since been debriefed and medically asssessed.


A British naval inquiry has been set up to establish how they
came to be detained amid widespread praise in the media for their
decision not to fight back against the Iranians' superior
firepower.


Several newspapers assessed that had they done so, they could
have sparked an accidental conflict.


Meanwhile, the Vatican said Pope Benedict XVI had written to
Iran's spiritual leader but did not confirm a report in The
Guardian that the letter was sent hours before Wednesday's
announcement of the group's release.


According to the newspaper, the pontiff urged Ayatollah Ali
Khamenei to do all he could to ensure their return home for
Easter in what would be taken as a "significant religious gesture
of goodwill from the Iranian people".

