

YouTube said Saturday it has offered to "educate" Thai
authorities about how the popular video-sharing service works in
the hope of ending a ban on the site over videos mocking
Thailand's revered king.


The company had spoken with Thai Communications Minister
Sitthichai Pookaiyaudoom about the ban, which was imposed
Wednesday after a user posted a video deemed here as offensive to
King Bhumibol Adulyadej, YouTube spokeswoman Julie Supan said.


"Minister Sitthichai reported that his government is inflexible
on the blocking of individual objectionable videos, and that the
ministry's technical people have difficulty understanding how to
block individual videos," she said in an email to AFP.


"While we will not take down videos that do not violate our
policies, and will not assist in implementing censorship, we have
offered to educate the Thai ministry about YouTube and how it
works," she said.


"It's up to the Thailand government to decide whether to block
specific videos, but we would rather that than have them block
the entire site," she added.


Thailand's communications ministry said it was still deciding how
to proceed, but was willing to consider censoring individual
videos rather than the entire site.


"We insist that the clips considered offensive must be removed
from the website," said communications ministry spokesman Vissanu
Meeyoo.


"We will look into the technical possibilities of blocking
individual web pages without blocking the entire site," Vissanu
added.


But the difficulty for censors in blocking individual videos
became increasingly clear as new clips continued to be posted
throughout the week.


Some videos mocked the king with graphic imagery, but others
offered earnest commentary about freedom of speech and Thailand's
strict laws against offending the king.


The site, accessed from Bangkok through a foreign server, now has
at least 10 clips connected to the controversy.


Although the original clip has been removed by the user who
created it, some others are similar, showing pictures of the king
next to images of feet -- seen as deeply offensive in Thailand.


Others have digitally altered the king's face to make him look
like a monkey, or edited his picture to include him in graphic
sexual images.


But some were simple videos of individuals expressing their
concern about the free speech issues raised by the ban, part of a
fierce debate that has erupted on the Internet message boards in
Thailand and around the world.


Media freedom watchdogs have condemned the ban, saying it
underscores the military government's effort to censor political
dialogue on the Internet.


Thailand has blocked some 45,000 websites, according to the group
Freedom Against Censorship Thailand.


Most of them are believed to be pornographic, but the government
has also banned websites linked to ousted prime minister Thaksin
Shinawatra as well as online discussions of the insurgency in
Thailand's south.


YouTube also includes videos of Thaksin, including messages made
for one of his websites that has been banned.


Thailand's king, almost universally adored by Thais, is the
world's longest- reigning monarch, and one of the few who is
still protected by tough laws that prohibit any insult against
the royal family.


The ban came a week after Thailand jailed a Swiss man for 10
years for insulting the king by vandalising his portraits during
a drunken spree.

