

The United States administration aims to give up to 100 million
dollars in aid to Somalia, a US envoy said on Saturday during a
rare high-level visit to the war-torn country.


US Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs Jendayi
Frazer said the United States was "moving forward" with a 40
million dollar aid package for the country and had asked Congress
to provide a further 60 million dollars, according to a statement
released here by the US State Department.


"This assistance will be used to support development and security
needs, to assist in the deployment of the African Union Mission
in Somalia stabilization force, and to provide humanitarian
assistance," it said.


Frazer earlier said she wanted to bring world attention to
Somalia after some of the worst fighting in its history.


Washington backed Ethiopia's intervention in Somalia to oust
Islamist militia allegedly linked to the Al-Qaeda network from
Mogadishu three months ago but clashes have resumed in recent
weeks with Islamic and other fighters.


Hundreds of people have been killed and tens of thousands forced
to flee.


Frazer called for more support for African Union peacekeepers in
Somalia, who currently comprise only some 1,200 Ugandan soldiers.


She was speaking after talks with President Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmed
and Prime Minister Ali Mohamed Gedi. "Discussions with all
interlocutors were frank and constructive, and laid the basis for
intensive collaboration," the State Department said.


"She and all of the interlocutors she met with agreed that the
reconciliation process should be open to all Somalis who eschew
violence, extremism, and terrorism."

