

A volcano on the Indian Ocean island of Reunion has spewed
massive lava flow and tossed magma as high as skyscrapers, but
residents were not in danger Saturday, officials said.


"It's not a volcano any more. It's a monster," one resident said.


The so-called Piton de la Fournaise volcano in eastern Reunion, a
French overseas department, has been erupting for about a week.
Tourists and residents have been able to take in the impressive
sights since residential areas have not been threatened.


On Friday, about 100 residents were evacuated from a village in
southeastern Reunion, with some believing they could see lava
approaching.


They were allowed to return to their homes two hours later,
however. What was believed to be lava turned out to be a forest
fire caused by projections of burning ashes.


Some residents have decided to leave their homes anyway out of
fear of what could happen. Eight houses were destroyed by lava
flow in March 1986.


The eruption showed signs of weakening Saturday, though it
remained active. A thin coating of ash covered several
neighborhoods in the eastern area of Saint- Andre.


"It could last several more days, but not weeks," said Thomas
Staudacher, director of the island's Volcano Observatory.


Staudacher called the lava flow "colossal" and estimated it at
three million cubic metres (four million cubic yards) per day.


Lava flows, which have cut off a national highway, have traveled
at 60 kilometres (38 miles) per hour, and magma has been
projected 200 metres (656 feet) high.


Lava has flown toward the sea, producing clouds of volcanic gas
when making contact with water that has enveloped many areas of
the island. But sulphur dioxyde levels in the gas have not been
measured at dangerous levels.

