

The head and seven employees of a Japanese trading firm were
arrested Saturday for importing North Korean clams by labelling
them as Chinese, police said, in an effort to bypass a ban on
imports from the communist state.


Japan banned all imports and ships, as well as almost all
visitors from North Korea, after Pyongyang conducted its first
nuclear bomb test last October.


It is expected to extend the six-month ban when it expires in
mid-April as a means to pressure the North to return all the
Japanese nationals it had kidnapped in the 1970s and 1980s.


The company, Toen Boeki K.K., is based in the western Japan
prefecture of Yamaguchi and specialises in seafood imports.


Its president Noboru Fujioka, 59, and seven of his employees were
arrested on charges of unauthorised imports, a Yamaguchi
prefectural police official said.


"The company chartered a Chinese freighter in importing about 55
tonnes of littleneck clams from North Korea in February,"
Toshiaki Kobayashi, director of foreign affairs at the
prefectural police, said by telephone.


The clams were suspected to have been loaded aboard the freighter
Hai Xing 3 at a North Korean port but the company said they were
Chinese products, he said. The ship arrived at Shimonoseki port
in Yamaguchi, on the western tip of Japan's main island of Honshu
on February 22.


The ship's captain Liu Mingguo, 58, and 11 crew members were
arrested earlier after it arrived at the port again on March 8
with 76 tonnes of clams presumed to have been loaded in North
Korea.

