

Chelsea kept the pressure on Premiership leaders Manchester
United on Saturday with a 1-0 victory over Tottenham.


The win narrowed the gap at the top of the table to three points
ahead of Manchester United's 1615 GMT match at mid-table
Portsmouth, with both title- chasing sides having just six games
remaining after Saturday's matches.


Ricardo Carvalho's 52nd-minute goal won it for champions Chelsea,
who were always in control at Stamford Bridge against visitors
who had played at Sevilla in the UEFA Cup less than 48 hours
earlier.


The break-through came when John Obi Mikel squared the ball in
midfield for Carvalho and the Portugal centre-half continued his
charge forward before firing a low drive past Paul Robinson, who
dived late, for his third league goal of the season.


In a late substitute appearance, Chelsea's England midfielder Joe
Cole made his first Premiership appearance since breaking a foot
in November.


In Saturday's later matches, Manchester United visit Portsmouth,
Liverpool travel to Reading and Arsenal host West Ham in the
day's second London derby.


Blackburn host Aston Villa, Middlesbrough welcome rock-bottom
Watford, Newcastle travel to Sheffield United and Bolton visit
Wigan in a Lancashire derby.


On Friday, Everton bounced back from conceding an early goal
against visitors Fulham with a dominant display which ended in a
deserved 4-1 win for the Toffees at Goodison Park on Friday.


The result kept David Moyes' side on course to qualify for
European football next season.


Meanwhile Charlton Athletic moved out of the bottom three for the
first time since September when they grabbed a precious point
from a scoreless draw at Manchester City.


The hosts created the best chances of a largely forgettable
encounter at Eastlands but failed to capitalise. The next round
of Premiership matches comes as soon as Monday, a public holiday
in Britain.

