

Egypt has given Israel a list of Palestinian prisoners to free in
exchange for a soldier captured by militants  in a cross-border
raid last June, the Palestinian information minister said on
Saturday.


Mustafa al-Barghuti said the move was the start of a possible
prisoner swap for Corporal Gilad Shalit, whose capture sparked a
massive, two-month Israeli incursion into the Gaza Strip in which
nearly 200 Palestinians were killed.


An Egyptian delegation "has informed the Palestinian government
that the procedure for an exchange (of prisoners) has started,"
Barghuti told a news conference in Ramallah.


"The Egyptians have transmitted (to Israel) a list of names of
Palestinian prisoners who must be freed. Everything that has been
demanded on the Palestinian side has been transmitted; the ball
is now in the Israeli camp."


Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert's spokesman would not comment
on  Barghuti's statement.


Shalit, 20, was abducted in a cross-border raid on June 25 by
militants from three Palestinian groups, including the armed wing
of Hamas.


On Friday, Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas said he was
confident Gaza militants would soon release the Israeli soldier
and an abducted BBC journalist, Alan Johnston.


"I would like to say that we are working to secure Shalit's
release and that these efforts will soon bear fruit. We are
optimistic. He will be released soon," Abbas told the France 24
news channel.


"I am convinced we must free the soldier Shalit. He cannot remain
imprisoned all this time."


Abbas added: "At the same time, we say to the Israelis that they
must free the Palestinian prisoners. But one thing does not
depend on the other. Shalit must be released."

