

Dozens of Taliban militants attacked a US-funded mine-clearing
team in southern Afghanistan Saturday, killing three deminers,
three guards and one female passer-by, police said.


The attack on the demining team working for the US-based demining
company RONCO in western Farah province was the latest in a wave
of violence blamed on the Taliban insurgents, police said.


"The Taliban attacked a demining team. Three deminers and three
guards supporting them were killed," a highway police official,
Saydo Jan told AFP. "One Afghan woman nearby was also killed in
the shootout," he said.


Five other people nearby including three women were wounded in
the attack in the province's Bakwa district, the police official
said, blaming the attack on Taliban militants active in the area.


Afghanistan is the world's second most mined country, the result
of years of war and insurgency.


The crew were travelling to the western city of Herat from
Taliban-dominated Kandahar when they came under attack.


In a separate incident on Saturday, US warplanes bombed a Taliban
hideout, killing five militants in Zabul province.


"The combined force used coalition close air support to drop
munitions on the Taliban position. Secondary explosions killed
the five Taliban fighters," the US military said in a statement.


It said a weapons cache in nearby caves was also destroyed in the
bombardment. It did not give details.


Taliban, despite being ousted from power five years ago, are
still able to carry out attacks. As part of their campaign they
have been attacking Afghan and foreign troops as well as aid
workers and journalists.


The rebels kidnapped two French aid workers along with their
three Afghan assistants in neighboring Nimroz on Tuesday. The
rebels are still holding the hostages.

