

Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo said the country's security
agencies have been put on full alert to clamp down on any
disturbances in connection with elections later this month.


"The police and all other security agencies have been placed on
full alert to clamp down heavily on any persons who... threaten
our collective desire for trouble-free elections in the coming
days," Obasanjo said in an Easter message.


The New York-based rights group, Human Rights Watch, last week
criticised the Nigerian authorities for not doing enough to stem
political violence in the run- up to the elections set for April
14 and 21.


Obasanjo said the federal government takes very seriously its
duty to provide a climate conducive to peaceful elections and an
orderly transition.


"Our administration remains unwaveringly committed to ensuring a
peaceful and orderly transition on May 29 this year and we have
given the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), the
Nigeria Police and other security agencies all necessary support
to ensure this," Obasanjo said.


He said the major task before Nigerians is to elect "honest, up-
right, capable, dedicated, effective, efficient and God-fearing
leaders" to take over the running of the country when he steps
down as president on May 29.


"We must all play a very conscientious and responsible part in
the discharge of this very important civic and patriotic duty,"
Obasanjo said.


"We cannot, at this very important stage of our national
development, afford to entrust its affairs, once again, to
persons who will callously reverse the gains of the past eight
years and take us back to the dark days before May 29, 1999,"
Obasajo said, referring to the date of Nigeria's return to
civilian rule after a series of military coups.

