

A baby was one of two people killed and more than 20 others were
injured Saturday when a packed train derailed in Indonesia in the
country's latest deadly transport accident, reports said.


Five carriages of a train from the capital Jakarta derailed near
Tegal, a town on the north coast of Java island, killing a man
and a baby and injuring at least 23 other people, the Detikcom
news website said.


The distraught mother of eight-month-old baby boy Seno Redho
Kurniawan told ElShinta radio that she was asleep when the
accident happened at 3:10 am (2010 GMT Friday).


"I have been away to Jakarta for a month and was on my way home
to Semarang," said Ika Aromawati, who is six months' pregnant
with her second child and was only slightly injured.


There were around 300 passengers on the seven-carriage train. 40
-year-old Casbani died in hospital, the report said.


He died after being trapped under an upturned carriage for around
four hours.


A director of the state-owned train company involved said the
cause of the derailment was under investigation, state media
said.


"We have not come to a conclusion that the train was
overspeeding, let the investigation team determine that," the
director, Roni Wahyudi, was quoted as saying by the Antara news
agency.


Accidents are relatively common on Indonesian railways. There
have also been a spate of airliner and ferry disasters in recent
months, which in total have claimed hundreds of lives.


The accidents have triggered criticism of Indonesia's transport
safety record and the government says it is trying to improve
passenger protection.

