

The Ivory Coast on Saturday announced a new transitional
government that brings together former rebels and allies of the
president in a bid to reunite the country.


The government also said foreign troops patrolling a buffer zone
dividing rebel- held areas in the north from the rest of the
country would begin to withdraw by the middle of this month.


The formation of the government follows a March 4 peace agreement
reached during talks in neighboring Burkina Faso between
President Laurent Gbagbo and rebel chief Guillaume Soro.


The deal, which is supposed to lead to new elections, was reached
after more than four years of crisis. The country, once a bastion
of stability in west Africa, has been split since 2002 following
a failed coup led by Soro.


Soro's forces have controlled the north of the country since
then, while Gbagbo's troops have held the south.


Soro was named prime minister of the new government late last
month.


In the transitional government announced Saturday, Gbagbo's party
and allies will hold 11 posts, including the interior and defense
ministries, while two opposition parties will have five posts
each, including the foreign ministry.


Members of Soro's New Forces group will have a total of seven
posts, including the ministers of justice, tourism and
communication.


The buffer zone dividing north and south is set to disappear
April 16, said Marcel Amoussou, commander of the United Nations
force in the country. It will be replaced by observation posts
that will continue to be patrolled by UN and French troops.


Every two months, the number of observation posts will be reduced
by half, according to terms of the agreement. Foreign troops will
eventually be replaced completely by the Ivory Coast's reunited
military, which will include rebel troops and forces loyal to
Gbagbo.


Some 7,800 UN troops and 3,500 French forces have been operating
in the Ivory Coast under UN mandate.

