

IRB Sevens leader Fiji were given a nasty shock by England here
on Saturday but still progressed to the quarter-finals of the
inaugural Adelaide Sevens.


The defending Sevens champions were joined in Sunday's quarters
by all the pre- tournament favourites, with fellow title
contenders South Africa, New Zealand and Samoa all unbeaten in
their pool matches.


The major casualty was France, which missed out after suffering a
shock 19-12 loss to Japan, while Scotland, England, Kenya and
Australia also progressed.


The Fijians, who are six points clear of New Zealand and Samoa on
the overall Sevens table, suffered a surprise defeat at the hands
of England in their final Pool A match, but still went through to
the next stage on the back of earlier wins over Canada and the
in-form Tonga.


After an emphatic 33-7 win over Canada in the tournament's
opening game, Fiji had to work overtime to beat Tonga 22-21 in
their following match.


England narrowly advanced despite a shock 12-5 loss to Tonga,
which lost two players to second-half yellow cards.


Tonga, after the win over England and narrow loss to Fiji, needed
a big win over Canada, but could only prevail 19-14 and England,
with victories over Canada and Fiji, went through on points
difference.


New Zealand, out to reclaim the Sevens title, cruised through
with three easy wins over Wales, Hong Kong and Australia in Pool
C.


Although the host nation was beaten 21-5 by the Kiwis, they
finished second in the group after beating Wales and Hong Kong
and reached the quarter-finals.


South Africa looked in ominous form as they easily won all three
of their Pool B matches, beating Kenya, Japan and France. Kenya
reached the quarters despite winning just one game, against
Japan.


Samoa beat Scotland, Argentina and Portugal in Pool D, while
Scotland's wins over Argentina and Portugal were enough to finish
second in the pool. The tournament concludes on Sunday.

