

Former interior minister Wu Poh-hsiung was elected Saturday as
head of Taiwan's main opposition Kuomintang, following former
chairman Ma Ying-jeou's resignation over an indictment for
corruption.


Wu collected some 156,499 votes, or 90 percent of the ballots
cast, while his opponent Hung Hsiu-chu took 23,447 votes, the
party said. The voter turnout rate was 53 percent.


"There are so many things to be done. I feel no joy (from winning
the election) but heavy pressure ... We have to stand united to
save the KMT and save Taiwan," Wu said after declaring victory.


Wu served as the KMT's acting chief when Ma stepped down as
chairman in February after being indicted for embezzlement, but
resigned from the post to enter the by-election.


The 67-year-old served as Taipei mayor during 1988-1990 as well
as interior minister and presidential secretary general between
1991-1996 when the KMT was the ruling party.


Saturday's by-election was low-key compared with the previous one
in 2005 when Ma and parliamentary speaker Wang Jin-pyng
campaigned heatedly in the KMT's first contested leadership race.


Ma, a former graft-buster who has been battling corruption claims
since November, was indicted for allegedly misusing more than 11
million Taiwan dollars (333,330 US) in expense accounts as Taipei
mayor.


Despite the claims, the 56-year-old has defiantly announced he
will run for president in 2008, a move that unexpectedly boosted
his popularity.


Last year Ma admitted that one of his aides had swapped receipts
in claiming his mayoral expenses for 2003-2006.


Ma has apologised for the "serious administrative flaws" but
denied prior knowledge of the aide's actions or any attempt at
embezzlement.


Ma was elected KMT chairman in July 2005 and oversaw the party's
landslide victory in local government chief elections five months
later.


After losing his job as justice minister in 1996 for waging an
unpopular battle against corruption, Ma was elected Taipei mayor
in 1998 and won re-election in 2002. His second and final term
ended on December 15, 2006.

