

One teenager was knifed to death and another seriously injured in
the latest of a wave of violent attacks on youngsters in London,
police said Saturday.


Police were called to a street in Leytonstone, northeast London,
shortly before 8:00 pm (1900 GMT) Friday on reports of two
teenagers with serious stab wounds.


Paul Erhahon, 14, died later in hospital and his 15-year-old
friend remains in critical condition, police said.


Two teenagers, aged 13 and 19, are being questioned over the
death, although police believe that up to 15 youths may have been
involved.


Erhahon is the eighth teenager to be killed in London in the last
three months. Five were stabbed and three shot.


It came on the same day that a pregnant 22-year-old woman,
Krystal Hart, was shot dead in her south London home over what
police believe could have been a parking dispute.


The number of killings of teenagers in the capital has shocked
the country and left commentators worried about an apparent rise
in violence and gang culture among Britain's male youths.


"Another two families devastated by knife and gun crime that is
clearly out of control on the streets of Britain," said Norman
Brennan of support group Victims of Crime Trust.


Prime Minister Tony Blair has admitted there is a "specific
problem within a specific criminal culture".


His government is considering a package of measures to tackle the
situation, including giving greater protection to people who give
evidence against gang members in court.


Detective Chief Inspector Matthew Horne called the stabbing of
Erhahon an "appalling crime."


"We understand a large group of youths were involved in an
incident... during which we believe the two victims were
stabbed," he said.


"A number of youths were seen running from the scene."


Police said both the victims were black and lived in the area.

