

Two Turkish engineers were kidnapped on Friday night in volatile
oil-rich southern Nigeria, police and industry sources said
Saturday.


Rivers State police chief Felix Ogbaudu told AFP the men worked
for a subcontractor of Italian oil company Agip.


"They were driving last night in Port Harcourt when they were
intercepted", Ogbaudu said.


A industry source said the men set off to attend a meeting at
Port Harcourt's Presidential Hotel but never arrived and have not
been heard from since.


A police officier in Port Harcourt close to the scene of the
abduction identified the men's employer as Merpa, a Turkish
telecommunications engineering company.


Ogbaudu had previously given the company's name as Marta
Engineering.    Both officials said the company was an Agip
subcontractor.


Agip never comments on kidnappings involving its staff or its
subcontractors.


No one has claimed responsibility for this latest kidnapping.


In Ankara, a diplomatic source said the foreign ministry was
closely monitoring the affair and working for the men's early
release.


"We have mobilised over this kidnapping, which does not appear to
be directed at Turks in particular but all foreigners," the
source said, who asked not to be named.


More than 60 foreigners have been kidnapped in southern Nigeria
so far this year, at least as many as were abducted during the
whole of 2006.


Abduction attempts have become increasingly daring in recent
months, with armed groups raiding deep water installations and
snatching oil workers from town centre locations.


Two Chinese nationals abducted on March 17 in the southeastern
state of Anambra remain missing.


But four foreign hostages -- two Lebanese men, a Briton and a
Dutch national -- were released three days ago after being held
in separate locations in the Niger Delta by different armed
groups.


A member of a militant group in Port Harcourt said that money had
changed hands for the release of the four, but did not elaborate
further.


Some of the hostage-takers are well-organised, well-equipped
groups fighting for a greater share of oil wealth to go to local
communities. Others are more like criminal gangs out to make
money from ransom payments.


The inhabitants of the Niger Delta complain that their region
generates some 95 per cent of Nigeria's foreign currency earnings
but that they have little to show for this in terms of economic
development and living standards.


Most of the hostages have been released unharmed, but a few have
been held for protracted periods and two were held for more than
three months.


European Union officials have said that for security reasons EU
observers who will be monitoring forthcoming elections in Nigeria
will not deploy to the three most volatile states in the Niger
delta -- Rivers, Delta State and Bayelsa.


The best-known armed group in the region, the Movement for the
Emancipation of the Niger Delta (MEND) warned recently that it
would step up and diversify its campaign of violence against oil
interests.


Over the past few days, however, MEND has kept an unusually low
profile.

