

Asian Games silver medallists Japan got off to a winning start to
the final qualifying round for the Beijing Olympics with a 2-0
win over Vietnam in a Group A match on Saturday.


The opening goal came from Japan's top goal scorer Homare Sawa,
who struck home a headed pass from Eriko Arakawa, following a
cross from Kozuke Ando in the 36th minute.


In the 73rd minute, Sawa cut back a free kick by substitute
defender Yukari Kinga to set up Tomoe Sakai for the second goal.


"First of all, I'm glad that we gained three points from the win
in our first game. We created many chances but we couldn't score
a third goal," said Japan's coach Hiroshi Ohashi.


"They defended with 10 women with only one forward in the front.
I expected that, but we couldn't break through their defenders.
If we had sent more accurate crosses, we would have won it more
comfortably."


Japan controlled the game, encamping in the Vietnamese field for
most of the match, but they failed to create a clear scoring
chance for most of a frustrating first half as the visitors kept
their attacks at bay.


Japan threatened the Vietnamese goal more in the second half. One
shot from Sawa, from a pass by Shinobu Ono, landed in the net in
the 54th minute, but it was ruled offside.


Vietnam's coach Ngo Le Bang admitted that they have to play
defensively against strong teams like South Korea and Japan.


"The Japanese team was very, very good, better than I've ever
seen. We tried to play defensively with counter-attacks, but it
was not successful. Our football is still not competitive against
Japan," he said.


It was Japan's sixth straight win against Vietnam in six
encounters.


Japan will play an away game against Thailand, while Vietnam will
challenge South Korea at home, in their next games on April 15.
The top finishers will qualify for the Olympics next year.

