

US President George W. Bush on Saturday reiterated his demand for
quick congressional action on an emergency bill that contains
funds for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, arguing that further
delays will have "a direct impact" on US troops.


"We have our differences in Washington, DC, but our troops should
not be caught in the middle," Bush said in his weekly radio
address.


He added that for US "men and women in uniform, this emergency
war spending bill is not a political statement, it is a source of
critical funding that has a direct impact on their daily lives."


The president has repeatedly promised to veto both the House and
Senate versions of the war funding bills that were approved last
month and contain deadlines for troop withdrawals from the
country.


The Senate version that authorizes 122 billion dollars for the
wars in Iraq and Afghanistan suggests that all US combat troops
be pulled out from Iraq by March 31, 2008.


The 124-billion-dollar version approved by the House of
Representatives mandates that the withdrawal be completed by
August 31, 2008.


Congress has gone on Easter recess and is expected to resume its
work only on the week of April 16.


Bush said that if Democratic-controlled Congress fails to pass a
funding bill acceptable to him by mid-May, the Army will be
forced to consider freezing funding for equipment depots,
curtailing the training of some active duty forces and delaying
the formation of new combat brigades.


"The bottom line is that Congress's failure to fund our troops
will mean that some of our military families could wait longer
for their loved ones to return from the front lines," the
president warned. "And others could see their loved ones headed
back to war sooner than they need to."

