

A clear majority of voters in Madagascar's referendum backed
constitutional changes which would increase the president's
powers and make English an official language on this Indian Ocean
island, results published Saturday showed.


According to figures released by the interior ministry from 85
percent of the 17,586 polling stations, 75.24 percent of votes
cast in Wednesday's poll were in favour of change, and 24.76
percent against.


AFP calculated that it would now be mathematically impossible for
the "no" votes to catch up with the "yes", as the polling
stations which have not yet announced their results only concern
one million voters, and the "yes" camp already has a lead of more
than 1.4 million votes over the "no's".


Changes proposed to the constitution would enhance the
president's powers, notably allowing the head of state to
legislate by decree in emergency situations.


The changes would also eliminate the autonomy of six provinces, a
step which authorities believe will facilitate ambitious
development plans, and make English an official language
alongside French and Malagasy for this former French colony.


The final interior ministry results, expected Sunday, must still
be approved by the constitutional high court.


In the polling stations whose results were released Saturday
morning, turnout was 43.46 percent, against 61.93 percent in the
presidential elections last December, which saw President Marc
Ravalomanana re-elected.


Madagascar's constitution dates back to its independence from
France in 1960 and was last revised in 1998.

