

Germany and Sweden advanced to the Davis Cup semi-finals with a
day to spare on Saturday as defending champions Russia moved
closer to the final four when they took a 2-1 lead over France in
Moscow.


Germany took an unassailable 3-0 lead over hosts Belgium in
Ostend thanks to doubles duo Alexander Waske and Michael Kohlmann
who beat brothers Olivier and Christophe Rochus 4-6, 6-2, 6-3,
6-1.


The win added to the singles victories Friday of Tommy Haas over
Kristof Vliegen 6-7 (4/7), 7-5, 6-4, 6-2 and Philipp
Kohlschreiber over Olivier Rochus 6-3, 7-5, 7-6 (7/4).


"We have worked so long for it. We are in the semis but we want
more now," said German captain Patrik Kuhnen, whose side will
play either Russia or France in the September 21-23 semi-final.


The last time Germany played in a semi-final was in 1995 when
they lost to Russia in Moscow after leading 2-0.


In Gothenburg, Sweden took an unbeatable 3-0 lead over last
year's runners-up Argentina when doubles duo Thomas Johansson and
Jonas Bjorkman defeated David Nalbandian and Guillermo Canas 4-6,
7-6 (7/4), 6-2, 6-3 in just under three hours.


The win puts Sweden into the last four for the first time since
2001 where they will meet the winner of the tie between the
United States and Spain which is being played this weekend at
Winston-Salem, North Carolina.


Sweden won both Friday's opening singles on the indoors carpet
surface when Johansson beat Nalbandian 6-7 (3/7), 7-6 (7/2), 6-2,
7-6 (7/0) and Robin Soderling got the better of Juan Martin del
Potro 7-6 (7/4), 7-6 (7/4), 6-4.


In Moscow, Nikolay Davydenko and Igor Andreev handed Russia a 2-1
lead with a 3-6, 7-5, 6-3, 3-6, 6-3 victory over French doubles
specialists Michael Llodra and Sebastien Grosjean.


The Russians won through in three hours 23 minutes to give the
hosts a crucial lead going into Sunday's deciding reverse singles
rubbers.


Before this match France had won 22 of its last 31 doubles
matches, however France captain Guy Forget's decision to
experiment with Llodra and Grosjean this time failed to pay off.


The victory stunned the Russians, neither of whom had played
doubles in over a year. "We managed to do something that looked
completely impossible just four hours ago," an overawed Davydenko
said after the match.


"Neither of us had played doubles for at least a year and came
here today with just one wish -- not to disgace ourselves. I'm
really surprised we managed to win."


"It was a really tough match," Andreev added. "And we were even
more pessimistic about our chances after the opening set, which
we lost so easily."


On Friday Paul-Henri Mathieu had given France the advantage after
he battled back from a set down to beat Davydenko 2-6, 6-2, 6-1,
7-5 in the opening rubber.


Mikhail Youzhny than beat Richard Gasquet of France in a marathon
five-setter 6-2, 6-3, 6-7 (8/10), 5-7, 8-6 to level proceedings
at 1-1.


At Winston-Salem, world No. 3 Andy Roddick and No. 9 James Blake
put the United States 2-0 up against a Spanish team lacking world
No. 2 Rafael Nadal on Friday night.


Blake gave the Americans the first point with a 6-4, 6-3, 6-4
victory over Tommy Robredo on the indoor hardcourt in North
Carolina.


Then Roddick recovered from 5-2 down in the first set to defeat
Fernando Verdasco 7-6 (7/5), 6-1, 6-4.


Roddick, playing at full strength after quitting a quarter-final
last week in Miami with a hamstring problem, struggled to close
out the match as Verdasco saved five match points before
succumbing.


Roddick's win gave the Americans a 2-0 lead for the first time in
seven ties. They will send the powerhouse doubles duo of Bob and
Mike Bryan in for the kill on Saturday.

