

Nearly half of British voters say finance minister Gordon Brown's
handling of a pensions tax upheaval has harmed his chances of an
election win if he takes over from Prime Minister Tony Blair,
according to a poll Saturday.


Some 44 percent of voters said Brown's handling of the issue
would hurt his chances of a poll victory against David Cameron's
resurgent Conservative Party if, as expected, Brown follows Blair
into 10 Downing Street in the next few months.


The ICM poll was published in early editions of the News of the
World newspaper.


The pensions controversy centres on Brown's 1997 decision to
scrap tax relief on the dividends paid to pension funds.


It has sparked up again in recent weeks after newly-released
Treasury papers suggested he had ignored the advice of officials,
although Brown's office denies this is true.


A separate YouGov survey in the Sunday Times added that 52
percent of voters now disapproved of Brown's performance as
Chancellor of the Exchequer, compared with 41 percent just one
month ago.


Asked whether Brown was fit to be prime minister following the
revelations, only 27 percent of those in the Sunday Times poll
said he was.


The row is the latest in a string of embarrassing stories to dog
Brown, who remains the clear favourite to take over as premier
when Blair steps down at some point before September.


Last month, Lord Andrew Turnbull -- formerly Britain's most
senior civil servant -- accused Brown of showing a "Stalinist
ruthlessness" and having a "very cynical view of mankind and his
colleagues".


The News of the World/ICM poll surveyed 1,006 adults between
April 3 and 5. The Sunday Times/YouGov questioned 2,218 electors
on April 4 and 5.


Overall, the latter put support for the main opposition
Conservatives at 39 percent, Blair and Brown's ruling Labour
Party with 32 percent and the centre- left Liberal Democrats with
16 percent.

