

The Security Council on Friday unanimously agreed to extend the
mandate of the UN mission in Liberia (UNMIL) for six months but
called for a detailed plan for a drawdown of the force.


The 15-member body adopted a resolution calling on UN chief Ban
Ki-moon to present "a detailed drawdown plan for the mission" in
his next report scheduled for June.


It said the report should include specific recommendations on
force levels and options for a drawdown, which should be
presented no later than 45 days prior to the expiration of
UNMIL's mandate.


UNMIL, which fields nearly 17,000 peacekeeprs, has been
responsible for security in Liberia since a brutal 14-year civil
war, which killed around 400,000 people, ended there in 2003.


The resolution also called on the Liberian government, in close
coordination with UNMIL, to take further steps toward achieving
benchmarks "with a view to a phased, gradual consolidation,
drawdown and withdrawal of UNMIL's troop contingent, as the
situation permits and without compromising the security of
Liberia."


It also reaffirmed the council's intention to authorize the UN
secretary general to redeploy troops, "as may be needed between
UNMIL and UNOCI (the UN mission in neighboring Ivory Coast) on a
temporary basis."


Last December, the council renewed sanctions against Liberia
barring trade in diamonds and arms as well as targeting
individual Liberians.


While it then welcomed progress by the Liberian government since
January to reconstruct the war-torn country and cooperate with
the international effort to monitor the diamond trade, the
council said the situation still posed a threat to peace and
security in the region.


It also decided to renew an embargo on arms destined for Liberia,
initially prohibited in resolution 1521 adopted on December 22,
2003, as well as on exports of rough diamonds for six months.

