

Melamine, a substance used in fertilizer in Asia, but not rat
poison, has been found in Canadian pet food blamed for killing
cats and dogs in North America, US officials and experts said
Friday.


Melamine, also used in the manufacture of plastics, was found in
samples of pet food manufactured by Menu Foods and tested in Food
and Drug Administration laboratories, Stephen Sundlof, an FDA
official, said at a news conference.


Melamine also was found in wheat gluten imported from China and
used in the Menu Foods products, he said.


Cornell University scientists detected melamine in the urine or
the kidneys of dead cats that participated in the original taste
testing study, he said.


"Melamine is an ingredient that should not be in pet food at any
level," said Sundlof, who leads the FDA's veterinary medicine
center.


But he emphasized that the scientists were not yet fully certain
that melamine had caused the recent spate of pet illness and
deaths in the US and Canada.


Menu Foods on Saturday expanded its March 16 product recall of
pet foods, citing possible contamination with a rat poison.


A New York state laboratory, working with Cornell scientists, on
March 21 identified amnoptrin, a rat poison which is banned in
the United States, in samples of Menu Foods pet food.


But Donald Smith, dean of the college of veterinary medicine at
Cornell, said that the university's scientists could not confirm
the state lab's findings.


"We have not been able to at Cornell yet confirm the presence of
aminopterin in either the food, wheat gluten samples or any body
tissues," Smith said Friday at the news conference.


Menu Foods has recalled pet products sold under 95 different
brands in the US, Canada and Mexico. The FDA has received more
than 8,000 complaints from consumers whose pets have fallen ill
or died after eating the food.


Class-action lawsuits have been filed against Menu Foods in the
US and Canada.

