

The United States has stripped a former Nazi policeman of his
citizenship because he participated in genocide and lied about
his past to obtain a visa, the Justice Department said Friday.


A federal judge in Detroit revoked the citizenship of John (Ivan)
Kalymon because he shot Jews in 1942 while serving in a Nazi-
sponsored police unit that helped eliminate a Nazi-created Jewish
ghetto in German-occupied Poland, Assistant Attorney General
Alice Fisher said in statement.


US District Judge Marianne Battani found that Kalymon served in
the Fifth Commissariat, which rounded up Jews, shot Jews,
prevented them from escaping, and transferred them to forced
labor camps or killing sites for mass execution in the in the
city of L'viv.


L'viv, now in western Ukraine, was part of Poland until 1939.


More than 100,000 Jews in L'viv were killed or displaced between
1942 and 1943 in part as a result of actions by the UAP in which
Kalymon participated, the judge said.


"The court's ruling confirms that individuals who participated in
genocide will not be permitted to retain the privilege of
American citizenship," Fisher, of the department's Criminal
Division, said.


Kalymon entered the United States from Germany in 1949 and became
a US citizen in 1955. Judge Battani found that he could not hold
US citizenship because his service to Nazi Germany made him
ineligible to immigrate to the US. She also found he had lied
about his UAP service when he applied for a visa to the US.


The case was tried in Detroit last fall by Office of Special
Investigations attorneys.


Since the OSI began operations in 1979, it has won cases against
105 Nazi war criminals, stripping them of US citizenship and/or
removing them from the country, the department said.

