

A British newspaper said Friday it "got it wrong" in publishing a
picture of Prince William's girlfriend which she found intrusive
-- but it may not be enough to avoid trouble.


The Daily Mirror tabloid said it regretted publishing Thursday a
photograph of Kate Middleton, 25, about which she lodged a formal
complaint about alleged harassment.


Her lawyers contacted the Press Complaints Commission (PCC) over
the shot of her heading to work, wearing sunglasses and holding a
takeaway cup and her car keys.


"The Daily Mirror has always steered a sensible course in the use
of photographs of Kate Middleton and other public figures," said
its editor Richard Wallace.


"On Thursday we published an innocuous picture of Ms Middleton
walking down the street with a cup of coffee.


"It was taken by a freelance photographer in circumstances where
we were later told she felt harassed. We got it wrong and we
sincerely regret that."


But the PCC said it was still examining the first official
complaint made by Middleton.


"As far as the PCC is concerned, we're still in the process of
investigating the complaint," a spokesman said.


"It's for the complainant to see how she feels about this
response."


The press focus on Middleton was thrown into the spotlight on her
25th birthday on January 9.


She faced a bank of more than 20 photographers and five
television crews camped outside her flat.


Despite the presence of a police officer, paparazzi blocked her
path and when she finally drove away, photographers chased after
her car on foot.


Middleton's lawyers then began investigating ways of protecting
her from the persistent attention as her relationship with
William, second in line to the British throne, comes under
increasing scrutiny.


Later that month, paparazzi were given a "final warning" about
their conduct.

