

Zimbabwe's main labour union Friday vowed to stage a two-day
general strike next week as opponents of veteran President Robert
Mugabe turn up the heat on his regime.


Lovemore Matombo, president of the Zimbabwe Congress of Trade
Unions (ZCTU), said the decision to embark on a general shutdown
on April 3 and 4 follows the failure to respond to concerns about
the worsening economic crisis in a country where 80 percent of
people are jobless and inflation stands at 1,730 percent.


"The situation in the country is fast degenerating into anarchy,"
Matombo told a news conference in the capital.


"We therefore hereby resolve that all workers embark on a
stayaway from 3 to 4 April.


"National actions will be called for after every three months and
they will be incremental until the situation improves."


Matombo said the ZCTU was not looking for workers to confront the
security forces who have previously crushed anti-government
protests by the labour body.


"The ZCTU is saying to the workers of Zimbabwe stay at home on
these two days," he said, adding that the stayaway has to be "as
peaceful as possible."


In September last year, labour union leaders were forced to
abandon plans for mass anti-government protests after the
organisers were rounded up in a police crackdown.


The crackdown led to the arrest of Matombo and the ZCTU's general
secretary Wellington Chibebe.


Matombo said government must take steps to address the economic
meltdown adding that authorities have failed to resolve workers
demands for a minimum wage.


With at least 80 percent of the population now living below the
poverty threshhold, people often skip meals or cycle or walk long
distances to work in order to stretch their wages to the next
payday.

