

Tottenham Hotspur's former Germany midfielder Christian Ziege
admitted on Friday he faced a huge challenge as Borussia
Monchengladbach's new director of football to stop them being
relegated.


The Euro '96 winner joined the Bundesliga's bottom club three
weeks ago and set about stopping the rot by extending the
contracts of striker Oliver Neuville and coach Jos Luhukay last
week.


But the five-times German champions are deep in the relegation
mire and are still five-points away from 15th place in the league
- and safety.


"As you can imagine, things aren't easy at the moment. Every
player we approach knows there is the possibility of life in the
second division next season," said the 35-year-old, who won 72
caps for his country.


In signing Neuville, Ziege has secured one of the club's top
stars, "I am glad that he has decided to stay with Borussia, no
ifs or buts, even if the club goes down".


Since Luhukay took over in January, 'Gladbach have only lost
three games in their last eight and Ziege saw enough in training
to convince him the former Dutch international is the man who can
keep the club up.


"Our situation has improved in the last four games," said Ziege.


"I watched him in training and I like his methods, so we decided
to extend his contract. The team is heading in the right
direction."


But left-back Marcell Jansen, part of the German team who beat
the Czech Republic 2-1 in Prague a week ago, is being courted by
Germany's top sides including Bundesliga leaders Schalke 04,
Bayern Munich and Werder Bremen.


The 21-year-old is contracted until 2009, but second division
football may not keep him at the club, something Ziege is fully
aware of.


"I like a challenge and this is certainly one, but we need to
keep picking up points and showing we are good enough to stay in
the top-flight," he added.

