

France took over NATO patrols of the air space of the three
Baltic states Friday, replacing the Belgian military, officials
said.


French pilots will patrol the air space of the NATO military
alliance's three Baltic members using four Mirage 2000 supersonic
fighters, which arrived at Zokniai air base in the north of
Lithuania on Thursday.


Older members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO)
have taken turns patrolling the air space of the three Baltic
states since March 29, 2004, when Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania
joined the military alliance.


The three Baltic states, which emerged from Soviet rule 16 years
ago, do not have the aircraft or personnel to police their skies
themselves.


"Today is symbolic because it falls on the third anniversary of
Lithuania's adhesion to NATO," President Valdas Adamkus said.


"We are grateful that the mission by other NATO members to ensure
our safety and stability is being continued.


"At the same time, Lithuanian, Latvian and Estonian soldiers are
taking part in international peacekeeping operations in Iraq,
Afghanistan and Kosovo."


As part of the air patrols, 120 French servicemen -- more than
double the 52 Belgian soldiers who had patrolled the Baltic
states' skies since December -- will be stationed at Zokniai for
four months.


The French deployment is a record for the Baltic air space
patrols since they began three years ago.


"We are assuming certain logistical tasks that the other
countries left to the host country," Lieutenant Colonel Geraud de
Villeneuve Esclapon, the French defence attache in Lithuania,
told AFP, without giving details.


"It's also possible that our aircraft require more personnel," he
added.


In August, the French will hand over the air space patrols to the
Romanian air force.

