

A Spanish court ruled on Friday that a new political party
created by the political wing of the Basque separatist group ETA
cannot hold a meeting this weekend to unveil its platform.


Batasuna announced earlier this week that it had created the new
political party, Abertzale Sozialisten Batasuna (Socialist
Patriotic Unity) to contest local elections on May 27.


Batasuna, itself is banned from taking part on account of its
failure to formally break with ETA's armed campaign, said the
creation of the new party represented progress in finding a
democratic solution to the Basque conflict.


But the court ruled that since the new party appeared to be just
a "continuation" of Batasuna, the meeting could not go ahead.


Batasuna's leader Arnaldo Otegi told a news conference in San
Sebastian the ban was "a serious attack on democratic freedoms."


Prosecutors are also seeking a complete ban of the new party at
the supreme court, which is expected to make a ruling in the
coming days or weeks.


Batasuna itself was banned in 2003 by the supreme court following
its refusal to break with ETA. The government has said it can
only take part in the May elections if it gave an unequivocal
statement disowning the armed struggle.


The armed Basque separatist movement is blamed for 819 deaths in
its 38-year campaign to win independence for the region
straddling northern Spain and southern France. Both the EU and
the US State Department consider Batasuna a terrorist
organisation along with ETA.


A December 30 bombing in Madrid shattered the ceasefire which ETA
had announced on March 22, 2006 after nine months, during which
the Socialist government of Jose Luis Rodiguez Zapatero had
attempted to inch towards a negotiated settlement of the four-
decade conflict.


In looking for a way around the ban, Batasuna is considering
urging candidates to run who are not officially affiliated with
Batasuna but who are sympathetic to its cause, Spanish daily ABC
has reported.

