

Former DR Congo vice president Jean-Pierre Bemba, whose militia
clashed with the army in Kinsasha last week, may fly out to
Portugal for treatment of a broken leg this weekend, diplomats
said Friday.


"A few details must still be settled but we think that he can be
evacuated with his family this weekend," the Portuguese embassy
in Kinshasa said.


Bemba will only receive medical treatment and has not made a
request for asylum, the embassy said adding that he wanted to
leave the country for a couple of weeks.


He had undergone treatment at a Lisbon clinic for the same leg
injury in December last year.


Bemba is currently staying at the South African embassy, where he
took refuge amid last week's fighting in which more than 200
people are believed to have been killed.


Talks are underway with the DRC government to allow the ex-rebel
leader and former vice president to fly to Portugal for treatment
for the old leg injury.


Last week's violence broke out after Bemba, a senator who still
enjoys parliamentary immunity, refused to allow his militia to be
integrated into the army.


His immunity can only be lifted by the senate whose members were
elected in January.


"Judicial officials have so far not opened a case against Mr
Bemba, which does not mean that this cannot happen," a legal
source told AFP.


"Everybody wants him to leave, for things to calm down, so this
country can be rebuilt," a minister close to President Joseph
Kabila told AFP.


Late Wednesday Bemba had said that his forces were beginning to
join the regular army, on his orders.


On Tuesday, 14 EU ambassadors condemned the government's
excessive use of force in the fighting, which according to their
estimates killed between 200 and 500 people, many of them
civilians.

