

A crisis between major crude producer Iran and Britain, caused by
Tehran's detention of 15 British sailors, caused oil prices to
soar this week, while gold benefited from its safe-haven status.


OIL: World oil prices rocketed to near seven-month high points
during the week- old standoff between London and Tehran over the
Iranian detention of 15 British naval personnel.


In London on Friday, the price of Brent North Sea crude for May
delivery reached 69.14 dollars a barrel -- the highest level
since September 4 2006.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, soared to 68.09 dollars on Tuesday on rumours of
military conflict with Iran.


Iran is the world's fourth biggest producer of crude oil and some
analysts believe there is a risk that the Islamic Republic could
disrupt its exports should the crisis with Britain escalate.


"The overriding factor ... is still the Iranian situation," Daiwa
Securities analyst Mark Pervan said.


"It's a lot of 'just in case' buying at this stage."


Prices began surging after Britain froze ties with Iran after it
refused to release 15 British sailors and marines it had captured
on March 23. Iran insists that the personnel were detained for
being in Iranian waters but Britain maintains they were inside
Iraqi waters.


Further fuel was added to oil prices since Thursday when Iran
decided against releasing the only female British sailor held
among the 15.


Oil prices are being supported also by Iran's refusal to bow to
international pressure stemming from its disputed nuclear
programme.


Despite the week's spike to crude -- prices have shot up more
than nine percent since last Friday -- they remain a long way off
record highs of above 78 dollars a barrel struck last year.


By Friday in London, a barrel of Brent North Sea crude for
delivery in May rocketed to 68.64 dollars a barrel, from 63.02
dollars the previous week.


In New York, a barrel of crude for delivery in May jumped to
66.45 dollars a barrel from 62.15 dollars.


GOLD: The price of gold rose to as high as 669.69 dollars an
ounce -- the highest point since March 1.


"Traders were again left wondering what it will take to push gold
above 670 dollars," said James Moore, an analyst for
BullionDesk.com.


The precious metal is benefiting from higher oil prices, which
fuel inflation. That increases the attractiveness of gold as a
defence against the erosion of money's value.


On the London Bullion Market, gold prices rose to 661.75 dollars
per ounce at Friday's late fixing, from 656.20 dollars the
previous Friday.


SILVER: Silver prices dipped, failing to gain from gold's rise.


"Further resistance is expected around 13.45-50 dollars (an
ounce)," Moore said.


On the London Bullion Market, silver prices stood at 13.35
dollars an ounce at Friday's late fixing, from 13.37 dollars the
previous week.


PALLADIUM AND PLATINUM: Platinum struck a one-month high, while
sister metal palladium fell.


"Platinum was bought on a perception that it would out-perform if
the whole (precious metals) complex rallied but ran into long
liquidation at the highs," UBS analyst John Reade said.


On the London Platinum and Palladium Market, platinum rose to
1,244 dollars an ounce at the late fixing Friday, from 1,232 the
previous week.


Palladium dropped 351.75 dollars per ounce, from 354 dollars one
week earlier.


BASE METALS: Base metals prices mostly rose. Tin which struck a
25-year high but ended the week lower after heavy profit-taking.


"Metals generally are still very tight and even where surplus is
likely to develop this is not really in evidence yet," Societe
Generale analyst Stephen Briggs said.


"Confidence has returned, although many investors do now seem to
be selective."


The price of tin hit 14,600 dollars a tonne, the highest point
since 1989 when the metal was re-introduced on the London market.


Tin futures are surging on supply concerns from Indonesia, where
a government crackdown on illegal mining has slashed production
levels, and because of low inventories of the base metal.


On Friday, three-month copper prices jumped to 6,859.50 dollars a
tonne on the LME, from 6,790.50 dollars the previous week.


Three-month aluminium prices climbed to 2,803 dollars a tonne
from 2,770 dollars.


Three-month nickel prices fell to 43,795 dollars a tonne from
44,495 dollars.


Three-month lead prices stood at 1,925 dollars a tonne from 1,926
dollars.


Three-month zinc prices rose to 3,285 dollars a tonne from 3,226
dollars.


Three-month tin prices dropped to 13,650 dollars a tonne from
14,350 dollars a week earlier.


GRAINS AND SOYA: Grains prices tumbled in Chicago after a US
goverment report said American farmers would plant their highest
levels of corn since 1944.


The US Department of Agriculture on Friday said that land devoted
to corn planting will increase 15 percent this year to 36.6
million hectares (90 million acres) amid surging demand for
ethanol fuels to replace petroleum.


The move to corn, a key crop for ethanol used for gasoline
blends, comes amid a decline of 11 percent in acreage devoted to
soybeans.


On the Chicago Board of Trade, the price of wheat for May
delivery dropped to 4.4050 dollars a bushel on Friday, from
4.6150 dollars the previous week.


Maize for May delivery slid to 3.7450 dollars a bushel on Friday,
from 4.0325 dollars the previous week.


May-dated soyabean meal -- used in animal feed -- gained to
7.7050 dollars on Friday, from 7.6950 dollars the previous week.


On the LIFFE, London's futures exchange, the price per tonne of
wheat for May delivery rose to 95.50 pounds on Friday, compared
with 89.50 pounds for wheat for November the previous week.


The November contract had been the most traded contract the
previous week.


COCOA: Cocoa prices struck the highest levels since 2003 on
drought fears in main producer Ivory Coast.


New York futures hit 1,966 dollars a tonne, last reached in May
2003. In London, prices rose to 1,056 pounds a tonne, not seen
since September 2003.


"The market has been driven by the fears of the drought from the
Ivory Coast," Standard Chartered analyst Abah Ofon said.


"The market has really concentrated on demand and supply. There
is a little bit of worry that supply is going to decrease," he
added.


By Friday on the LIFFE, the price of cocoa for May delivery
jumped to 1,056 pounds a tonne, from 1,039 pounds a week earlier.


On the New York Board of Trade (NYBOT), the May contract advanced
to 1,951 dollars a tonne, from 1,907 dollars the previous week.


SUGAR: Sugar prices slipped to a 19-month low of 9.90 cents a
pound in New York.


"Market sentiment remains bearish with the prospect of abundant
supplies this season," Sucden analyst Michael Davies said.


By Friday on the LIFFE, the price per tonne of white sugar for
August delivery fell to 317 dollars, compared with 329 dollars a
week earlier.


On the NYBOT, the price of unrefined sugar for July delivery
declined to 9.92 US cents a pound, from 10.21 cents the previous
week.


COFFEE: Coffee prices fell, hit by rising European stockpiles of
the commodity amid expectations of robust production.


By Friday on the LIFFE, Robusta quality for May delivery slid to
1,513 dollars a tonne, from 1,567 dollars a week earlier.


On the NYBOT, Arabica for May delivery dropped to 109.15 US cents
per pound on Friday, from 113.45 cents the previous week.


RUBBER: Malaysian rubber prices fell slightly.


Intracom rubber broker Robert Chai said the market was quiet with
buyers from China staying away owing to Malaysia's higher prices.


"Buyers are not in the market because rubber prices are higher
than in Thailand and Indonesia," he said.


Chai added that he expected a rebound in the market during coming
weeks with Chinese factories looking to build their stockpiles.


The Malaysian Rubber Board's benchmark SMR20 dipped to 214.50
cents a kilogramme on Friday, from 214.60 cents the previous
week.


WOOL: Wool prices fell in leading producer Australia.


"Although prices eased during the week, this occurred against the
impact of the drought showing up in the offering, a larger than
expected sale quantity and a continuing high exchange rate," the
Australian Wool Industry Secretariat said.


Compared to the start of the upward movement of the market in
October, the Eastern index is up by 25.9 percent, it added.


The Australian wool market finished 1.3 percent lower on average
this week, with the Eastern index falling to 9.33 Australian
dollars a kilo, from 9.43 dollars the previous week.

