

Ronnie O'Sullivan will take on Graeme Dott in the China Open
semi-finals after eliminating Marco Fu of Hong Kong, China, 5-3
on Friday.


The former Asian champion Fu led 3-2 and was on a break of 57
when he split a cluster of four reds in potting the pink but
somehow was left without a straight-forward pot.


"It's strange I'm winning because I'm playing so poorly. I made
some silly mistakes and Marco looked dangerous early on," said
O'Sullivan.


His attempted double missed its target and O'Sullivan knocked in
a superb long red to set up a dazzling 63 clearance.


Fu said: "Frame six was the turning point. I couldn't believe I
didn't get on a red after potting the pink."


The "Rocket" rattled in 87 and 79 to seal victory, adding to his
earlier runs of 110 and 62.


"Ronnie's the best player in the world and he played well after
that." added Fu.


Earlier Dott, trailing 2-0 after his close friend Higgins had
opened with 79 and 80, took a scrappy third to pull himself back
and then produced a burst of high- quality break-building.


"It was a tough match to play because we're good friends, but we
were both trying hard to win," said Dott.


He levelled at 2-2 with an 84 and made it one way traffic as the
former world champion required just three visits to secure
victory with runs of 97, 106 and a 102.


"I played well earlier this season, and I think I'm playing a lot
better today. I didn't miss a ball against John," added Dott.


Dott won 17-11 on his way to the world title and O'Sullivan will
be determined to gain revenge as he chases his first ranking
title in two years.


"Tomorrow should be a classic match. Ronnie's a great player, but
when I beat him at the Crucible last year it was probably the
best I've ever played," said Dott.


Janie Cope easily past Shaun Murphy 5-0 to set a semi-final tie
with Barry Hawkins, who fought nine frames to beat Ken Doherty
5-4.

