

Europe's main stock markets ended the week on a mixed note, with
London trading weighed down by disappointing domestic corporate
news, dealers said.


The FTSE 100 slid 0.26 percent to 6,308 points while in Paris the
CAC 40 was essentially unchanged at 5,634.16 points.


Frankfurt's DAX 30 index of leading shares added 0.29 percent to
6,917.03 points, helped by a jump in the share price of
Commerzbank.


The DJ Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone blue chip shares was flat
at 4,181.03 points, while the euro stood at 1.3373 dollars.


On Wall Street, the Dow Jones Industrial Average had lost 0.33
percent to 12,308.21 points as European markets shut down, and
the Nasdaq Composite was off by 0.28 percent at 2,411.01.


Standard and Poor's broad-market 500 index showed a loss of 0.48
percent at 1,415.74.


In Asia, the Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading
shares closed up 0.14 percent at 17,287.65, lifted by late Wall
Street trading on Thursday, dealers said.


Hong Kong's key Hang Seng Index fell 0.11 percent to 19,800.93
points with caution remaining over rising crude oil prices.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, rose to fresh 2007 highs above 66 dollars a
barrel on Friday as tension over Iran's detention of British
military personnel increased.


In London trade, the price of Brent North Sea crude for May
delivery reached 69.14 dollars a barrel -- the highest level
since September 4 last year.


Later Friday it stood at 68.64 dollars in electronic deals, up 76
cents.


In London stock trading, the share price of life insurer
Resolution led the blue-chip casualties, tumbling 4.17 percent to
620.50 pence after the group said talks with various parties over
its possible sale had been terminated.


Resolution said it would continue to assess possible acquisitions
and business combinations that would not constitute an offer for
the company.


Vodafone shares gave up 4.31 percent to 135.50 pence after the
telecommunications operator warned that conditions in the British
domestic market were deteriorating rapidly.


Even Alliance Boots ended up slipping by 0.05 percent to 1,026.50
pence despite the fact that Europe's biggest pharmacy chain
received an increased offer from US investment group KKR worth
10.06 billion pounds (14.72 billion euros, 19.61 billion dollars)
in cash.


KKR, which is tabling a joint bid with Alliance Boots' executive
deputy chairman Stefano Pessina, has offered 1,040 pence per
share, and the market reckoned the company would likely accept
the offer.


British Airways meanwhile slumped 1.73 percent to 488.81 pence,
hurt by the prospect of higher fuel costs. BA said it might sell
its 10 percent stake in Spanish national carrier Iberia, which
received a request for information from US private equity firm
Texas Pacific Group which is considering a takeover bid.


Iberia signalled last week it was ready to look at a merger, amid
expected consolidation of the industry following an EU-US deal to
open up transatlantic air travel.


A potential TPG bid was believed to value Iberia at 3.60 euros a
share.


The Spanish airline lost 0.25 percent at 3.99 euros in Madrid,
while the Ibex-35 index added 0.25 percent to 14,641.70 points.


Elswhere Man Group, the world's biggest listed hedge fund, lost
1.77 percent to 555 pence in London after an expected
announcement to demerge its brokerage unit, Man Financial, and
list it on the New York Stock Exchange.


In Frankfurt, Commerzbank jumped 2.16 percent to 33.12 euros
after a senior Citigroup executive said his bank was looking
closely at the German market for possible acquisitions.


In Amsterdam, the AEX index fell back 0.26 percent to 510.50
points, the Swiss SMI was flat at 8,976.99, in Milan the SP/Mib
was also unchanged at 41,771 and in Brussels the Bel-20 closed
0.49 percent lower at 4,471.65.

