

The dollar turned lower Friday in a sudden reversal of fortunes
late in the European session, as a jittery market reacted to
speculation of rising tensions in the Middle East.


The euro rose to 1.3372 dollars, from 1.3331 dollars in New York
late on Thursday.


The dollar stood at 117.34 yen in European trade, down from
118.02 yen late on Thursday.


News of US plans to impose sanctions on some Chinese imports also
dented the US currency amid speculation that China would take
retaliatory action.


The dollar which had been slowly gaining ground after some strong
US data, backtracked on unspecified rumours that US citizens had
been ordered to leave Bahrain.


"The dollar slid across the board on a combination of rumours
that the US State Department has told US citizens to leave
Bahrain," said Ashraf Laidi at CMC Markets.


"The news has further fuelled the risk premium in oil prices,
generating the same dollar reaction seen upon the rumours of a
military confrontation between the US and Iran earlier this
week," he added.


Jamie Coleman at Thomson IFR Markets said rumours were running
wild.


"One making the rounds is that US citizens have been warned to
leave Bahrain in preparation for a strike against Iran," Coleman
said, while adding that he personally was sceptical of the
rumour.


Laidi said most of the dollar's falls might be due to news that
the United States will impose heavy sanctions on some Chinese
imports.


A US Commerce Department official was reported as saying that the
US will impose economic sanctions against China as a way of
protecting American paper producers from unfair Chinese
government subsidies.


The action would reverse 20 years of US trade policy by treating
China, which is classified as a non-market economy, in the same
way that other US trading partners are treated in disputes
involving government subsidies.


"Whether today's decision will be reversed by the World Trade
Organisation or not, it will likely trigger possible retaliatory
acts from China such as further diversification of its forex
reserves, which will likely hit the US currency," commented Laidi
at CMC.


The euro was changing hands at 1.3372 dollars, against 1.3331
dollars on Thursday, 157.12 yen (157.41), 0.6794 pounds (0.6792)
and 1.6215 Swiss francs (1.6230).


The dollar stood at 117.34 yen (118.02) and 1.2122 Swiss francs
(1.2170).


The pound was being traded at 1.9699 dollars (1.9620).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold rose to 661.75
dollars per ounce, from 661 dollars late on Thursday.

