

Hundreds of striking French schoolteachers and parents marched
through Paris Friday in protest at the deportation of illegal
immigrant families and their school-age children.


Teaching unions called the strike in response to the arrest last
week of a headmistress who was protesting against the detention
of a Chinese illegal immigrant as he collected his grandson from
primary school.


Valerie Boukobza was released without charge, but her detention
sparked a wave of anger among teachers and parents.


"Teachers under pressure, families in detention, police state --
we don't want this society," chanted the protestors, estimated at
more than 2,000 people by unions, who are demanding the
enforcement of guidelines banning police from detaining illegal
immigrants in the vicinity of schools.


"It starts outside schools, then police will start hunting
immigrants inside our classrooms, why not in hospitals... We are
sliding towards a dictatorship," said one young teacher, who gave
her name as Elise.


Right-wing presidential candidate Nicolas Sarkozy oversaw a
toughening of immigration policy during his time as interior
minister, more than doubling the number of deportations of
illegal immigrants to 25,000 last year.


A high-profile protest movement by teachers and parents last
summer led Sarkozy to grant an amnesty to around 7,000 families
with children enrolled in French schools who were facing
deportation.


But the government says an automatic amnesty for all such
families is impossible. Migrants are free to enroll their
children in a French school regardless of their legal status, and
the government argues such a measure would create a new channel
for immigration.


None of the main presidential candidates back a blanket amnesty
for France's estimated 200,000 to 400,000 illegal immigrants, but
the Socialist Segolene Royal and centrist Francois Bayrou have
indicated they would take a lenient line towards families long
settled in the country.

