

Philippine Supreme Court justices on Friday failed to reach a
decision on a petition by a leftist legislator to overturn his
arrest for allegedly ordering the murder of 15 communist party
cadres in the 1980s.


Supreme Court justices heard oral arguments on the petition of
Congressman Satur Ocampo but did not rule on the case before the
close of business on Friday. A decision will be issued later, the
court said.


During the oral arguments, the court told Ocampo's lawyer that he
should have exhausted other legal remedies, like seeking a review
by the Justice Secretary or asking a lower court to quash the
charges that led to his arrest earlier this month.


"Why do you have to go directly to the Supreme Court? Can't the
Court of Appeals take good care of you and your client?" said
Justice Angelina Sandoval Gutierrez.


Lawyer Romeo Capulong argued the Supreme Court had often proved a
"speedier remedy" and had often shown to be more liberal than
other chambers.


Ocampo was detained on March 16 just as he was heading to the
Supreme Court to file the petition to strike down his arrest
warrants.


The court decision delays any move to obtain freedom for Ocampo,
who was indicted on 15 counts of murder allegedly committed
during a purge of suspected "spies and counter-revolutionaries"
within the ranks of the Communist Party of the Philippines (CPP)
between 1985 and 1991.


The remains of the 15 murder victims were among 67 bodies exhumed
by forensic investigators from the so-called "killing fields" of
the communist New People's Army (NPA) on the central island of
Leyte last August.

