

US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice telephoned Saudi Arabia's
ambassador Friday after Saudi King Abdullah rattled his US allies
by criticizing the US military presense in Iraq as
"illegitimate," a senior official said.


"She did reach out to the Saudi ambassador, they had a good
chat," State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said after Rice
called Ambassador Adel al- Jubeir, who was in Riyadh.


McCormack declined to further characterize the exchange, but said
there would be "a couple of follow-up conversations," indicating
the US side still had questions about King Abdullah's remarks
made at the opening of an Arab League summit in Riyadh.


The spokesman said another, unnamed, senior US official would
probably telephone Saudi Foreign Minister Saud al-Faisal about he
matter.


And he stressed that US maintained "fundamentally, sound and good
relations with Saudi Arabia, and King Abdullah in particular."


On Wednesday, the Saudi king criticized the occupation of Iraq in
what some observers viewed as an effort to distance himself from
the embattled administration of President George W. Bush.


"In beloved Iraq, blood is being shed among brothers in the
shadow of an illegitimate foreign occupation and ugly
sectarianism threatens civil war," Abdullah said.


The State Department's number three official, Under Secretary of
State Nicholas Burns, said Washington wanted "clarification" of
the king's statement.


"We were a little surprised to see those remarks. We disagree
with them," Burns told a congressional panel.


The United States views Saudi Arabia, the Middle East's most
powerful Sunni regime, as a critical ally in trying to counter
the rising influence of Shiite Iran.


But the Saudis fear the rise to power of Shiites in Iraq, with US
support, and have shown signs of impatience over the Bush
administration's perceived failure to push Israel for concessions
that could pave the way for a peace deal with the Palestinians.

