

Eighty countries plus the European Commission on Friday signed a
landmark UN convention protecting the rights of the world's 650
million disabled people.


Forty-two countries also signed an optional protocol which will
allow individual petitioning on alleged rights violations to a
committee of experts once all national recourse procedures have
been exhausted.


"This landmark moment is a direct outcome of their vigorous
advocacy to right a historic wrong," UN Deputy Secretary General
Asha-Rose Migiro said at the signing ceremony.


"The convention specifically prohibits discrimination against
persons with disabilities in all areas of life, including
employment, access to justice and the rights to education and
health services and access to transportation," she added.


The pact also requires that public spaces and buildings be
accessible to the disabled and seeks improvements in information
and communications infrastructure.


The convention was adopted by the UN General Assembly last year,
marking a sea change in the perceptions of the disabled and
reinforcing their power to enhance their lives.


It now needs to be ratified by at least 20 countries before it
comes into force. And Jamaica Friday became the first country to
do so.


UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Louise Arbour told the
gathering that a key "step on road to implementation is the need
to transpose international obligations into meaningful programs
for change at the national level."


"Currently, fewer than 50 countries have specific legislation
that protects persons with disabilities," Migiro for her part
noted. "I know we can do better and today's gathering shows us
the way."

