

Iran released a third letter purported to be from British
detainee Faye Turney on Friday, in which she writes that the 15
captives have been "sacrificed" to US and British policies.


The letter, released by Iranian authorities in London, also calls
again for British troops to withdraw from Iraq. British
authorities have denounced Iran's use of the detainees for
propaganda purposes.


"I am writing to you as a British service person who has been
sent to Iraq, sacrificed, due to the intervening policies of the
Bush and Blair governments," writes Faye Turney.


"I believe that for our countries to move forward we need to
start withdrawing our forces from Iraq and leave the people of
Iraq to start rebuilding their lives," it said.


The letter was dated on Tuesday, the same as a second letter
which emerged on Thursday, in which she questioned whether
British forces should remain in Iraq.


The document released on Friday includes a number of unusual
grammatical formulations and errors. For example, it is
addressed: "To British people," (sic). The end of another
sentence is missing.


"We were arrested after entering Iranian waters by the Iranian
forces. For this I am deeply sorry. I understand that this has
caused even more distrust for the people of Iran, and the whole
area of the British (sic).


"The Iranian people treated me well and have proved themselves to
be caring, compassionate, hospitable, and friendly. For this I am
thankful," she writes.


The letter also contrasts the Britons' conditions with those of
prisoners in Iraq's notorious Abu Ghraib jail.


"Whereas we hear and see on the news the way prisoners were
treated in Abu Ghraib and other Iraqi jails by the British and
American personnel, I have received total respect and faced no
harm," she writes.


And it concludes: "It is now time to ask our governments to make
a change to its behaviour towards other people," she concluded.

