

Nepal's main political parties and Maoists struck a deal on
Friday that brings the former rebels into government for the
first time, officials said.


In a move that gives a major boost to the Himalayan nation's
peace process, the Maoists are to take over five portfolios in an
interim cabinet tasked with steering the country into new
elections this year.


Veteran Prime Minister Girija Prasad Koirala, the leader of the
Nepali Congress Party and the architect of the peace process,
will also retain his position as leader of the government,
officials said.


The cabinet will be formally approved by Nepal's parliament --
which also includes Maoist members -- on Saturday, senior
Congress Party official Ram Chandra Poudel told reporters.


The Maoists and the country's seven main parties signed a peace
deal in November 2006, with the one-time insurgents promising to
end their decade-long insurgency that left at least 13,000 people
dead.


They also pledged to permanently abandon violence and have
registered their weapons and fighters under United Nations
supervision.


Officials said the five portfolios handed to the Maoists included
the Ministry of Information and Communication.


Under the peace plan, the country is due to hold elections for a
constituent assembly in June.


This assembly will rewrite the country's constitution and decide
on the fate of embattled King Gyanendra and the monarchy as a
whole.


Gyanendra was forced to relinquish direct rule last year after
months of mass protests organised by an alliance of the political
parties and the Maoists. He has since been stripped of most of
his powers.


The Maoists are lobbying hard for the country to be declared a
republic, although several mainstream parties wish to keep some
form of monarch to act as a ceremonial figurehead.

