

Wall Street shares see-sawed to a mixed finish Friday as
stronger-than-expected economic data was offset by worries that
US trade sanctions slapped on China might spark growing
protectionism.


Trading was volatile as investors made portfolio adjustments on
the final trading day of the first quarter, and renewed fears
about inflation dampened enthusiasm from robust economic reports.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average was up a scant 2.40 points (0.02
percent) at 12,351.15 at the closing bell, after zig-zagging for
most of the session.


The Nasdaq composite gained 3.76 points (0.16 percent) to
2,421.46 while the broad-market Standard and Poor's 500 index
shed 2.13 points (0.15 percent) to a preliminary close of
1,420.40.


The market opened on an upbeat note after the Commerce Department
said US consumer spending and personal income both rose 0.6
percent in February, surprising analysts expecting hits from
slowing economic conditions.


"This was much stronger than expected and gets the first quarter
GDP (gross domestic product) numbers off to a good start," said
Dick Green at Briefing.com.


"It suggests that real GDP growth is on track for the 2.5 percent
growth generally expected. It will allay recession fears. It also
suggests that the problems in the housing sector aren't having
broad impact yet."


But Nigel Gault, economist at Global Insight, said the figures
were not as robust when stripping out the inflation component of
the report, with core prices up 2.4 percent year-on-year.


"The news on inflation was not comforting," he said.


Inflation is above the Federal Reserve's "comfort zone," he
noted, "and moving in the wrong direction." This makes a cut in
interest rate unlikely.


Also hurting sentiment was a US government decision to approve
duties on Chinese paper imports, which "has piqued protectionist
concerns," said analysts at Briefing.com.

