

Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger has denied an English Football
Association improper conduct and/or bringing the game into
disrepute charge over disparaging comments he made following last
month's fractious League Cup final.


Wenger accused a linesman of lying about the ugly fight that
marred Chelsea's 2-1 win over the Gunners at Cardiff's Millennium
Stadium.


Three players were sent off for their part in the brawl but
afterwards, Wenger said a linesman had lied about the part Togo
forward Emmanuel Adebayor had to play in the fracas, which saw
him, team-mate Kolo Toure and Chelsea's Mikel John Obi receive
their marching orders.


Adebayor was sent off for violent conduct but Wenger believed he
had been dismissed for throwing a punch at Chelsea's Frank
Lampard, something the FA later cleared up by denying the red
card was specifically for a punch.


Wenger said: "I am not subtle enough maybe to master it
completely, but when the truth does not come out you call it as
you want. A mistake, a lie, I do not know.


"It is not the truth. The FA have one responsibility, it is to
respect football.


"If you tomorrow are manager of Arsenal and you can prove
Adebayor intended not to punch Lampard would you say 'yes he
intended that, thank you very much, the FA are so big, three
games (suspension), no six? Okay.'


"I can say what I think. They can put me up on the wall and shoot
me down, but it still does not make that decision right.


"If they do not like my words, then they do not like it. I will
never change.


"Would you like to see me with a dictionary after the game and
think 'oh no, what is a little bit too strong, what is the
synonym of that word because I could be punished by the FA?"


Arsenal appealed against Adebayor's sending off but were
rejected.

