

Sweden should carry out further reforms to strengthen its
economy, particularly by boosting competition in the public
sector, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development
said Friday.


In a report on Sweden's regulatory practices and reforms, the
OECD noted that the public sector competes with the private
sector in many areas at the national and local level, running
bakeries, gyms and garden centres.


"This distorts the competitive playing field and hinders the
creation of small firms. Firm action to tackle anti-competitive
behaviour by state entities has not yet been taken," it said.


Reforms were needed if Sweden "is to meet the challenge of an
ageing population and maintain its high standards of social
welfare," the organisation warned.


It noted that growth domestic product (GDP) per capita in Sweden
was higher than the eurozone average, and that research and
development spending as a percentage of GDP was higher in Sweden
than in any other OECD country (4.0 percent compared to the OECD
average of under 2.0 percent).


In 2005, Sweden's GDP per capita was 32,111 dollars (24,113
euros) compared to 30,438 dollars (22,873 euros) on average for
the 15 EU members, the OECD said.


Last year, the economy expanded by 4.4 percent, compared to 2.9
percent in 2005, according to Swedish statistics.


But despite the strong growth figures, few new jobs have been
created, the OECD said.


"Improving labour market flexibility, cutting red tape and
facilitating competition would boost entrepreneurship and job
creation, notably in the services sector," it added.


It also called for improved competition in key sectors such as
construction and food retailing.


Sweden's centre-right government, in power since October, has
launched a series of reforms aimed at creating jobs.

