

The UN nuclear watchdog called on Friday on Iran to reverse its
decision to limit cooperation with its inspectors in retaliation
for the recent tightening of UN sanctions.


"I would urge your authorities to reconsider their decision,"
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) director of external
relations Vilmos Cserveny said in a letter to Iran's ambassador
to the agency, a copy of which was obtained by AFP.


Iranian ambassador Ali Asghar Soltanieh had formally announced
Iran's decision to cut cooperation in a letter sent Thursday to
IAEA chief Mohamed ElBaradei, which called UN Security Council
resolution 1747, adopted on March 24, "illegal and unlawful."


Soltanieh also said Iran had to protect its nuclear secrets as
the United States and Israel "are threatening the use of force
and attack against the Islamic Republic and have repeatedly
stressed that military action is an option on the table,"
according to a copy of the letter obtained by AFP.


Soltanieh, referring to press leaks, also said the IAEA "has
failed systematically and repeatedly to maintain confidentiality
of sensitive information despite its firm obligations."


Iran is cutting off cooperation agreed to in 2003 to give
immediate notification of plans to build nuclear plants or to
modify existing facilities.


Iran will now notify the IAEA of new sites only six months before
they begin to function.


Analysts have said this could help Iranian authorities hide
facilities and so protect them from possible military air
strikes.


The United States, which charges that Iran's civilian nuclear
energy programme is a cover for secretly developing nuclear
weapons, has not ruled out military action.


The UN Security Council imposed new sanctions against Iran in
resolution 1747 over its refusal to suspend uranium enrichment,
which makes nuclear reactor fuel but also what in highly refined
form can be the explosive core for atom bombs.


Iran then said it would limit its cooperation with the IAEA but
did not carry out its threat until this week.


The move comes the day after the IAEA told Iran to allow its
inspectors to install surveillance cameras at an underground
nuclear site by the end of the week, in a showdown that could
lead to further UN action against the Islamic Republic.


The IAEA has told Iran to allow its inspectors to install
surveillance cameras at Natanz, where Iran is building an
industrial-scale plant underground to make enriched uranium.


IAEA chief of safeguards Ollie Heinonen sent a letter to Iran
March 17 saying the IAEA wanted the cameras installed by the end
of March, one diplomat said.


The diplomat said there was still room for negotiation but that
if Iran did not comply, ElBaradei would have to notify the
agency's 35-nation governing board that Tehran was not meeting
its nuclear safeguards obligations.


This could lead to an emergency board meeting, something sought
by the United States if Iran does not comply, and eventually to
the matter being brought before the UN Security Council.


Iran has already told the agency that it plans to install 3,000
centrifuges underground at Natanz, referring to the machines
which enrich uranium.


The IAEA has said it needs to install cameras there to provide
remote monitoring of the operation of centrifuges, especially if
the number of the machines exceeds 500.


Iran is believed to have almost 1,000 centrifuges installed and
is actively test-running well over 500, empty of nuclear
material.

