

Brazil's best-known rabbi asked to be temporarily suspended from
his job as head of the Rabbinate of Sao Paulo Friday following
charges he stole ties from upscale US stores.


Rabbi Henry Sobel, 65, was arrested in Palm Beach, Florida on
March 23 and jailed overnight, then released on a 3,000 dollar
bail, US police said.


Brazilian newspapers on Friday published the Palm Beach police
arrest report along with Sobel's mug shot.


The Sao Paulo Israelite Congregation (CIP), the main Israelite
congregation in Latin America, said in a statement that it
accepted Sobel's request for a suspension, adding that it was
"distraught and worried."


It described Sobel as a "distinguished community leader," and
quoted him as saying: "I never had the intention of stealing any
object in my life."


Sobel, born in Lisbon but raised in New York, has lived in Brazil
since 1970. He is best known for his pro-human rights work during
the country's 1964-1985 military dictatorship.


A security camera captured images of a man that appears to be
Sobel on film at the Louis Vuitton store in Palm Beach taking a
tie and folding it. Moments later the man left the store with his
hands empty.


A store employee called the cops, and 20 minutes later Sobel was
detained.


Initially Sobel denied the theft, but later offered to pay for
the tie, and even admitted stealing three ties other ties -- at
Giorgio's, Gucci and Giorgio Armani -- for a total value of 680
dollars, the Palm Beach police said.


He was back in Sao Paulo by Sunday, a CIP spokesman told AFP.


Early Friday Sobel checked into the city's Albert Einstein
Hospital with symptoms of "emotional lack of control and
behavioral alterations," the hospital said in a statement.


Sobel had been overdosing on his insomnia medication that could
cause "mental confusion and amnesia," the statement read.

