

Tokyo's metropolitan board of education said Friday it had
punished 35 public school teachers for refusing to honour the
country's anthem and flag at graduation ceremonies this month.


Both symbols -- the red-sun flag and the hymn praising the
Emperor's reign, are associated by liberals with Japan's World
War II militarism.


Of the 35, three were suspended from school for up to six months,
12 others were slapped with pay cuts and the remaining 20 faced
admonitions, the board said in a statement.


The anthem "Kimigayo" (Thy Reign) praises the emperor. Critics
say it harks back to the nation's militarism under the late
Emperor Hirohito, who was considered divine during World War II.


Japan shunned the symbols of patriotism after the war, but has
gradually begun adopting them again.


Tokyo's local government, led by outspoken nationalist Governor
Shintaro Ishihara, in 2003 ordered state-run schools to display
the flag and sing the anthem at ceremonies.


The education board also warned then that teachers would face
punishment if they refuse to give respect to the flag and the
anthem during school ceremonies.


The latest action has brought to 381 the total number of teachers
reprimanded in Tokyo for resisting the order.


Japan's top court ruled last month that schools have the right to
order teachers to perform the national anthem.


It was the Supreme Court's first ruling on orders for schools to
respect the national anthem and flag, which have led to a civil
disobedience campaign by liberal teachers.


In a 4-1 ruling, the Supreme Court upheld a lower court's
rejection of a lawsuit by a music teacher who refused to play the
anthem at an elementary school ceremony.


The flag and the anthem were legally recognized as state emblems
only in 1999 amid a conservative drift in Japan.

