

UN chief Ban Ki-moon remains concerned about the escalating
fighting in the Somali capital Mogadishu and intends to take up
the issue with regional leaders, a spokesman said Friday.


"Today as yesterday, the fighting is a cause of concern by us,"
UN spokesman Farhan Haq said on behalf of Ban, referring to a
second day of heavy fighting in Mogadishu sparked by an
Ethiopian-led offensive against Islamic insurgents.


He told a press briefing that the UN secretary general, who is
currently visiting Lebanon, would take up the issue with regional
leaders in the coming days.


Thursday, Ban said in a statement that he was "deeply disturbed"
by the escalating fighting and appealed to all sides in Mogadishu
to put an immediate end to the fighting.


The statement said Ban was "particularly concerned about the use
of air strikes and the introduction of tanks and heavy artillery
into densely populated parts of the city, further increasing the
security threat to large numbers of civilians."


The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees's office
Thursday reported that as a result of the fighting, over 12,000
people had fled Mogadishu in just the last week, bringing the
total since the beginning of February to 57,000.


Friday, an Ethiopian MI-24 helicopter gunship was shot down by a
rebel missile over Mogadishu after clashes between insurgent
fighters and joint Ethiopian and Somali government forces erupted
across the city.


Initial reports suggested none of the crew survived.


An AFP correspondent reported seven bodies in the street Friday
evening, bringing the death toll in the past two days to at least
55.


It was the highest toll in a 24-hour period since the start of
the year, when Ethiopian forces helped the Somali transitional
government drive out the leaders of the Islamist movement
controlling Mogadishu.

