

The Bank of England's latest interest rate meeting is expected to
be the main domestic economic feature for London stock market
investors next week, amid a smattering of company trading
updates.


Traders were also expected to keep a close watch over oil prices,
which have surged to near seven-month highs above 69 dollars a
barrel in London owing to rising tension between Britain and Iran
over 15 British sailors detained by Tehran.


London's FTSE 100 index of leading shares ended at 6,308.00
points on Friday, down 31.4 points or 0.49 percent from a week
earlier.


London, like other global indices, has been hit by the rocketing
price of crude oil this week. Higher oil prices increase
companies' costs, although energy groups benefit in the end since
their profits generally increase.


Meanwhile more expensive oil can also push up inflation, which in
turn leads to rate tightening by central banks. Next Thursday,
however, the Bank of England is expected to keep British
borrowing costs at 5.25 percent following the conclusion of its
two-day meeting.


Most economists are pricing in a quarter-point hike to 5.50
percent in May.


"The bank still has some concerns about inflation expectations,"
Global Insight analyst Howard Archer said.


"Consequently, we still expect the Bank of England to lift
interest rates to 5.50 percent in May as a precautionary measure
aimed at containing medium-term inflation risks."


Meanwhile among the company releases expected next week is a
first-quarter trading update from British energy giant BP on
Tuesday.

