

A World Trade Organisation panel said Friday that the United
States had failed to comply with a previous ruling ordering it to
open up the multi-billion dollar cross-border internet gambling
industry.


The fresh ruling about US compliance with a 2005 WTO judgement
followed a renewed challenge from tiny Antigua and Barbuda, which
claimed that Washington had not brought its legislation into line
since then.


The Caribbean island, with a population of about 69,000, is a
centre for offshore Internet gaming operations, attracting large
numbers of US residents to its casino-style games and betting
services.


The WTO had given the United States until April 2006 to modify
its laws, and Washington subsequently gave a formal assurance to
the organisation's disputes settlement body that it had complied.


Friday's WTO ruling found that the United States had instead
enacted legislation that maintained "ambiguity," according to the
document.


"The Panel concludes that the United States has failed to comply
with the recommendations of this panel," it added.


Last October, President George W. Bush followed up earlier legal
changes by signing new legislation that effectively put a
stranglehold on all Internet gambling by outlawing the processing
of Internet bets by US banks.


Experts say the vast majority of online gamblers in the United
States use some 2,000 websites run that are largely located in
offshore centres like Antigua and Gibraltar.


Americans are the biggest gamblers in the world, accounting for
80 percent of an estimated 12 billion dollars generated by online
gaming.

