

Britain deplored caste discrimination on Friday as a modern form
of slavery, saying it condemned millions worldwide to a life of
servitude.


Britain is this week highlighting contemporary forms of slavery
following Sunday's 200th anniversary of the Abolition of the
Slave Trade Act.


"Despite legislative advances rendering the practice illegal,
caste discrimination remains a tragic day-to-day reality,
particularly in South Asia," Foreign Office Minister Ian
McCartney said.


"Individuals and communities are segregated from society, a
situation enforced all too often by violence. Those of low caste
are frequently restricted to employment considered demeaning or
polluting, typically in sanitation, and receive very low
remuneration."


Earlier this month, the UN anti-racism watchdog expressed concern
about "deeply entrenched" caste discrimination and racial
prejudice in India, urging the government to halt segregation and
to act against killings and rapes.


McCartney said Britain was involved in programmes helping India's
dalits, those on the lowest rung of the country's rigid Hindu
caste hierarchy. There are an estimated 165 million dalits in
India.


"Most bonded labourers live in South Asia and up to 80 percent
are dalits, or "untouchables" who are at the bottom of the Hindu
Caste system," he said, adding that women and children are
"especially vulnerable to exploitation."

