

Sarah Hammer of the United States turned on the power to
successfully defend her women's world pursuit crown here at the
world track cycling championships on Friday.


Britain's Rebecca Romero was outclassed by the American in the
final, finishing over three seconds slower than her winning time
of 3min 30.213sec to take the silver medal after the 12-lap race.


Australian Katie Mactier, the world champion in 2005, dominated
Britain's Wendy Houvenaghel in the battle for third place to take
her second consecutive bronze medal from the world championships.


Hammer thus defended the title she won last year in Bordeaux,
France when she beat Russian Olga Slyusareva to become the first
elite American winner of a worlds track medal in a decade.


Romero, a former rower who boasts a world title and a silver
medal from the Olympics in that sport, had smashed the British
national record with a time of 3:31.89 in the morning qualifying
session.


However it appeared she paid for those efforts in the later
final.


Hammer gave Romero little chance of fighting for what would have
been her first world title on the track, taking a lead of over
0.6sec seconds on the Englishwoman inside the first couple of
laps.


That advantage, despite her unorthodox rocking on the bike, was
maintained until the halfway mark after which Romero began to
drop out of contention.


At 2km the 27-year-old Romero's deficit had grown to 1.114,
leaving her with little chance of catching the American.


Since her breakthrough win last year the 23-year-old Hammer has
gone from strength to strength, and is aiming for another gold
here in the women's points race.


Hammer's winning time also means she has again beaten the
American national record for the 3000 metre race against the
clock for the second time this season.


Until Hammer's emergence, Rebecca Twigg's mark of 3:36.080 had
stood since 1995.


Sarah Ulmer of New Zealand holds the women's world individual
pursuit record of 3:24.537.

