

Lawyers for Israel's suspended President Moshe Katsav on
Wednesday presented his defence on charges including rape before
the attorney general, a justice ministry spokesman said.


"Mr Katsav's lawyers attended a hearing with Attorney General
Menahem Mazuz earlier today," he said.


After the four-hour hearing, both sides agreed to meet again in
order to allow Katsav's attorney to further present his argument
to counter the slew of charges which include rape, sexual
harassment, abuse of power, breach of trust and accepting bribes.


Mazuz has said he intends to indict the president -- who is
currently on leave from his largely ceremonial post -- over these
charges.


The hearings are Katsav's sole opportunity to defend himself
before the attorney general decides whether to press ahead with
the charges. The 61-year-old president took a leave of absence in
late January.


Rape in Israel carries a maximum sentence of 16 years in prison.
Although Katsav temporarily suspended himself from duty in
January, he currently retains immunity from prosecution. His
mandate expires in July.


Katsav has insisted he is innocent and rejected intense pressure
from the Israeli public and politicians of all persuasions to
resign.


He faces the prospect of becoming the country's second
consecutive president to be forced from office by scandal, ending
his career in disgrace and perhaps prison.


His predecessor, the late Ezer Weizman, was forced to resign in
2000 after revelations that he received around 450,000 dollars
from French millionaire Edouard Saroussi in the 1980s when
Weizman was an MP and minister.

