

Turkey's ruling Justice and Development Party (AKP) Wednesday
passed through parliament a new timetable for voting in a
turbulent presidential election, setting the first round for
Sunday.


The second round is scheduled for May 9, the third for May 12 and
the fourth and final round for May 15.


The Constitutional Court Tuesday, petitioned by the opposition,
annulled Friday's first round of presidential voting on the
grounds that the 550-seat parliament met without the required
quorum of 367.


The AKP insists that the first round be repeated, even though the
sole candidate, Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul, is unlikely to win
the required two- thirds support, with parliament concentrating
on early general elections.


The AKP earlier Wednesday called for early elections on June 24
as a way out of Turkey's current political crisis after the
Constitutional Court cancelled the first-round presidential vote.


The AKP, which has 351 seats, was left almost alone in the
assembly on Friday after the opposition boycotted the vote.


Gul said late Tuesday he would not press ahead with his candidacy
if he again fails to win the necessary support in the re-run
first round.


The crisis erupted over widespread hostility to the prospect of a
president from the AKP, the moderate offshoot of a now-banned
Islamist party, whose opponents accuse it of not being truly
committed to Turkey's secular system and of eroding the
separation of state and religion.


The main opposition Republican People's Party had petitioned the
Constitutional Court in a bid to block Gul's candidacy and force
early parliamentary elections.

