

Police scuffled Wednesday with pro-Kremlin youth activists
outside the Estonian embassy in Moscow and made one arrest as
protestors attempted to prevent diplomats entering or leaving the
building.


Dozens of youths from government-backed organisations such as
Nashi (Ours) and Young Guard spent a sixth day camped outside the
embassy to protest the relocation of a Soviet World War II
memorial in Estonia's capital Tallinn.


About 30 Nashi members briefly blocked the arrival of a Swedish
diplomatic vehicle at the embassy until police intervened, an AFP
correspondent said. The youths again attempted to block the
Swedish embassy car as it left.


Shortly after, an unmarked car was used to hinder an Estonian
diplomatic vehicle, bearing the Baltic republic's tricolour flag.
Riot police dragged the driver from the car and forced him into a
police vehicle, an AFP correspondent said.


Shortly after, about 15 to 20 Young Guard activists stormed the
offices of the Argumenty i Fakty newspaper, in another part of
Moscow, where the Estonian ambassador was due to give a press
conference, an AFP correspondent said.


Estonia's President Toomas Hendrik Ilves has described the
embassy protest as "psycho-terror."


The activists say they are protesting against Estonia's
relocation of the Bronze Soldier World War II monument from
central Tallinn to a military cemetery.


The Estonian government has called for help from the rest of the
European Union and claims that the Russian authorities are
fomenting unrest in the former Soviet republic.


Many Estonians saw the central location for the monument as a
symbol of Soviet occupation, which lasted five decades after the
Red Army drove Nazi Germany's army out of the Baltics.

