

Europe's main stock markets rose on Wednesday, led by the Paris
CAC 40 which briefly struck its highest level for more than six
years after a fresh record on Wall Street overnight.


The CAC and Frankfurt market reopened after being shut Tuesday
for May Day.


In early afternoon trade, the CAC 40 stood 0.36 percent higher at
5,981.57 points and the Frankfurt DAX 30 rose 0.45 percent to
7,442.05 points.


Earlier, the CAC hit 6,001.17, which was last seen in December
2000.


In late morning deals, London's FTSE 100 index jumped 0.67
percent to 6,462.90 points.


The euro stood at 1.3572 dollars.


US shares swung higher Tuesday to lift blue chips to a fresh
record high as the market got a lift from declining oil prices
and a big takeover bid for the Wall Street Journal parent
company, dealers said.


Japanese share prices ended with a solid gain on Wednesday,
helped by Wall Street and a weak yen.


In Europe, the Paris market was lifted by media shares, which
triumphed after News Corp. launched a five-billion dollar bid
Tuesday for Dow Jones in a bold move to add the prestigious Wall
Street Journal business daily to Rupert Murdoch's vast media
empire.


French media and technology group Lagardere surged 2.21 percent
to 59.2 euros points to head the CAC 40.


In London, British satellite TV broadcaster BSkyB rocketed 7.44
percent to 628 pence, but dealers said this was largely owing to
stronger-than-expected customer growth figures for its fiscal
third quarter.


Another strong riser was platinum producer Lonmin, which surged
5.66 percent to 3,508 pence, after the company raised its
dividend and maintained its full-year guidance.


In New York, the Dow Jones Industrial Average advanced 0.56
percent to 13,136.14 points on Tuesday, hitting its fourth all-
time high in the past five sessions.


The Nasdaq composite gained 0.26 percent to 2,531.53 points and
the broad-market Standard and Poor's 500 index added 0.27 percent
to 1,486.30.


On Wednesday in Asia, the Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index
of leading shares ended 0.69-percent higher at 17,394.92 points.


Dealers said that trading was relatively quiet ahead of a four-
day holiday weekend in Tokyo.


Hong Kong's key Hang Seng Index closed up 0.34 percent, led by
index heavyweight HSBC following news that a unit of Dubai
International Capital (DIC) has made a substantial investment in
the global banking giant.

