

Australia would meet its greenhouse gas emissions target as set
under the Kyoto Protocol, Environment Minister Malcolm Turnbull
said Wednesday as he dismissed claims pollution was much greater.


The government's National Greenhouse Accounts showed that
emissions growth had steadied -- with no rise between 2004 and
2005, he said.


And, by 2005, Australia's pollution from the burning of fossil
fuels had only increased by 2.2 percent above the 1990 level.


"Our Kyoto target is to average 108 percent of 1990 emissions
between 2008-2012," Turnbull told the Australian Broadcasting
Corporation.


"We are tracking well towards that target."


Australia has often boasted it would meet its proposed target
under the 1997 Kyoto Protocol despite refusing to ratify the
treaty on climate change.


But the minister's statements are at odds with data released by
the independent Climate Institute earlier this week which said
that the government had underestimated pollution from the burning
of coal, oil and gas.


Figures produced for the Climate Institute found that increases
in greenhouse pollution during the past two years were above
government projections and would put emissions above the Kyoto
level by 2010.


Their argument was bolstered by five prominent economists who
Wednesday took out a full-page advertisement in the Australian
Financial Review demanding the government take urgent action to
reduce emissions.


"Delayed action by Australia would increase the cost and degree
of change required to achieve emissions reductions in the future
and would restrict the opportunity to participate in development
of low emissions technology and emissions trading," it said.


Australia's greenhouse gas emissions represent about 1.5 percent
of the global total.

