

Oil producers cartel OPEC on Wednesday saw no need to increase
output even as the International Energy Agency (IEA), the
consumers watchdog, stressed the need to pump more crude.


"The market is stable. I think maybe in June we will review the
market to see if we need more oil or not. But I don't think we
need it," Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries secretary
general Abdullah el-Badri said.


"The market is stable and the supply and demand is stable," Badri
told reporters on the sidelines of a meeting for Asian energy
ministers when asked if OPEC needs to pump more crude to ease
prices.


But IEA president Claude Mandil warned there was a supply
shortage which required producers to hike output.


"At present, there is a lack of crude because we see crude stocks
not increasing whereas they should increase at this time of the
year," Mandil said.


Mandil also called on oil producers to invest in the oil sector
to increase spare production capacity which would eventually ease
pressure on prices.


"We hope that in the medium term, there will be an increase in
investments, both in upstream and downstream, which could ease
the pressure on prices," he said.


"But we think part of the pressure on prices is the result of the
lack of spare capacity," he added.


Oil prices were higher in Asian trade on Wednesday on concerns
over tight US gasoline (petrol) supplies ahead of the US summer
driving season.


At 1:50 pm (0550 GMT), New York's main contract, light sweet
crude for June delivery, was up 20 cents to 64.60 dollars a
barrel from its close of 64.40 dollars in late US trades on
Tuesday.


Brent North Sea crude for June delivery was up 35 cents to 67.35
dollars.

