

Cambodia will boost its bird flu awareness efforts, officials
said Wednesday amid fears that education campaigns are doing
little to change people's behaviour around potentially sick
birds.


"While awareness of avian influenza is growing, risky behaviour
still remains high among adults and children," said UN resident
coordinator Douglas Gardner in a speech distributed during a
ceremony for the new communication initiatives.


"This will be the next big communication challenge. Knowing how
the virus is spread must move to the actual behaviour of washing
hands and actually keeping children away from sick birds," he
added.


Australia's aid agency AusAID Wednesday committed 1.2 million US
dollars to Unicef for the new campaign, which hopes to teach
people how to keep the H5N1 virus in check.


"It is necessary to ... work more closely at the community level,
to induce and reinforce behavioural change," said Unicef's
representative Suomi Sakai.


Cambodia has been praised by the United Nations for its rapid
action against bird flu, which has helped spare it from the human
and poultry deaths suffered by its neighbours.


But health officials also warn that the virus could go undetected
in the countless small family farms where most of Cambodia's
poultry are raised.


Seven bird flu deaths have been confirmed in Cambodia since 2003,
the most recent occurring last month.


"This (fatality) shows that we all must have a strong commitment
and pay much more attention. ... The problem remains a threat for
us," said Cambodian Health Minister Nuth Sokhom.

