

Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Wednesday
denounced a ruling by the Constitutional Court to annul the
first-round vote in the presidential election as "a bullet fired
at democracy."


"We respect the decision of the Constitutional Court, (but) it
will be much debated from the legal point of view," Erdogan told
members of his Justice and Development Party in parliament.


The ruling "blocked the way of electing a president in
parliament, almost made it impossible... This is at the same time
a bullet fired at democracy," he said.


The Constitutional Court on Tuesday cancelled the first-round
vote in Turkey's turbulent presidential elections on the grounds
that the 550-member parliament started voting without the
required quorum of a two-thirds majority.


The court was petitioned by the main opposition party, which
aimed at blocking the election of the sole presidential
candidate, Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul, because of his Islamist
background, and forcing early elections.


Erdogan's Justice and Development Party (AKP), the moderate
offshoot of a now- banned Islamist movement, holds the majority
in parliament with 351 seats.


The court ruling "subjected those who represent the majority of
the people to the will of the minority," Erdogan said.


Following Tuesday's ruling, the AKP called for early general
elections in June and said it would also propose to parliament a
package of constitutional amendments, including a far-reaching
reform for a popular vote to elect the president.


Gul said he would not press ahead with his candidacy if he fails
again in a repeated first round in the current election, which is
the most likely possibility. Early elections will then go ahead
without a new president being elected.

