

The dollar hit a two-month high against the yen on Wednesday,
lifted by better than expected US manufacturing data and ahead of
a crucial US non-farm payrolls report later this week.


Dealers said Tuesday's robust data raised doubts about the
chances of an early interest rate cut by the US Federal Reserve.


In early European trading, the dollar climbed as high as 120.06
yen, reaching a level last seen in February, compared with 119.78
yen late in New York on Tuesday.


The euro meanwhile fell to 1.3578 dollars from 1.3606 dollars
previously.


The European single currency has edged down from its all time
high of 1.3682 dollars, which was struck last Friday.


"The dollar has recovered notably against the euro and briefly
broke above the 120.00 level against the yen in response to the
surprisingly strong ISM manufacturing report for April," said
Derek Halpenny, senior currency economist at The Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi.


He added: "However, market participants are probably not yet
convinced by the ISM report and the euro is likely to hold in
close to current levels at least until the employment report on
Friday."


The Institute of Supply Management's index of US industrial
activity rose to 54.7 from 50.9 in March, beating market
expectations for a slight gain to 51.0.


According to analysts, the data made it more likely that the US
Federal Reserve would maintain interest rates at the current
level of 5.25 percent when it meets on May 9.


"The robustness of the (ISM) report will, for some, call into
question the idea of a gradual slowdown in activity and, with the
aid of anticipated weaker labour market data, eventual Fed rate
cuts," said Commerzbank analyst Gavin Friend.


He added: "We have argued a modest retracement higher in the
dollar is due and we may yet see an unwinding of euro/dollar that
takes us to the 1.3475-1.3520 area before Friday's employment
report."


Elsewhere, business in Asia was relatively quiet as players took
to the sidelines ahead of a four-day holiday weekend in Tokyo,
beginning on Thursday, dealers said.


The euro changed hands at 1.3578 dollars, against 1.3606 dollars
late Tuesday, 163.02 yen (162.99), 0.6807 pounds (0.6805) and
1.6519 Swiss francs (1.6517).


The dollar stood at 120.06 yen (119.78) and 1.2166 Swiss francs
(1.2143).


The pound was being traded at 1.9947 dollars (1.9985).

