

As Jose Reina was performing heroics in a penalty shoot-out to
send Liverpool into the Champions League final, burglars were
ransacking the Spanish goalkeeper's Merseyside home, it emerged
on Wednesday.


Reina returned home after one of the most memorable evenings of
his playing career to find that thieves had made off with
jewellery, a top-of-the-range audiovisual system and his Porsche
Cayenne car, local police said.


The sports car was later found burnt out in another area of the
city.


The robbery during Liverpool's clash with Chelsea on Tuesday was
the latest in a series of incidents in which footballers have
been targeted, often while they have been playing matches.


Reina's predecessor as Liverpool's number one goalkeeper, Jerzy
Dudek, was burgled in June 2006. He also lost a Porsche and
jewellery but was more distraught that the thieves took his 2005
European Cup winners' medal.


Danish defender Daniel Agger, who scored for Liverpool on Tuesday
night, had his home in the city's suburbs burgled in September
last year.


Reds striker Peter Crouch's house was targeted in the same month
while he was on England duty and Everton winger Andy van der
Meyde was burgled twice last year, including one raid in which
his pedigree puppy was taken.


Wayne Rooney also lost memorabilia, including his BBC Young
Sports Personality of the Year trophy, when his parents'
Liverpool home was burgled in July 2006.


One footballer that Merseyside's burglars have not been able to
profit from is former Everton striker Duncan Ferguson.


During his playing days, 'Big Dunc' twice apprehended would-be
robbers at his home. The first incident, involving two intruders,
ended with one of them fleeing for his life while Ferguson
'restrained' and then sat on the other one until the police
arrived.


A later incident resulted in the "battered and bruised" burglar
unsuccessfully attempting to sue the former Scotland
international player for damages.

