

A 3,700-strong brigade of US armoured infantry has arrived in the
Iraqi capital to join a "surge" of extra troops supporting a 10
-week-old security plan, the military said on Wednesday.


The 4th Brigade 2nd Stryker Brigade Combat Team (SBTC) from Fort
Lewis, Washington, is the fourth of five additional combat units
called in as part of a total 28,000-strong programme of
reinforcements.


"Their mission will be to assist Iraqi Security Forces to clear,
control and retain key areas of the capital city in order to
reduce violence," the US command in Baghdad said.


Confirmation of the deployment came amid fierce disagreement in
Washington over the mission. On Tuesday, Bush vetoed a law voted
by Congress which would have forced troop withdrawals rather than
reinforcements.


There are now more than 140,000 American service members in Iraq,
more than four years after a lightning invasion swept aside
former dictator Saddam Hussein's armies and ousted him from
power.


Today they are caught up in a complex mission to quell sectarian
violence between armed Sunni and Shiite factions, while fighting
Sunni insurgent groups and Shiite militias opposed to their
presence in Iraq.


The US commander in Iraq, General David Petraeus, has pledged to
present a review of the results of the security plan in
September, warning that the operation will take months to
complete.


The 2nd SBCT is equipped with 19-tonne Stryker armoured personnel
carriers, a wheeled battle taxi that can carry nine infantrymen
and a crew of three and be armed with heavy machine-guns or anti-
tank rockets.

