

India's Suzlon Energy has clinched its single biggest contract to
supply wind turbine capacity to a US wind power developer, the
company said Wednesday.


Suzlon Wind Energy Corp, a unit of Denmark-based Suzlon Energy
A/S (SEAS), has signed a contract for 400 megawatts (MW) of wind
turbine capacity with PPM Energy of Portland, Oregon, a statement
said.


"This agreement is Suzlon's single largest contract for wind
turbine capacity" so far, said Suzlon, ranked as the world's
fifth leading wind turbine manufacturer with more than six
percent of global market share.


Suzlon gave no financial details of the deal.


PPM is one of the largest wind power developers in North America
and part of the Iberdrola group, the world leader in wind power
with more than 6,500 MW of combined wind power capacity.


The contract calls for delivery of 300 MW turbine capacity in
2008, and 100 MW of capacity in 2009. The capacity, to be
supplied through Suzlon's S88-2.1 MW turbine, will be delivered
starting in 2008.


"The size of PPM's commitment is a clear signal of Suzlon's
capabilities and standing as a supplier in the global wind energy
market," said Suzlon Group chief executive Andre Horbach.


Suzlon is bidding for German wind turbine maker REpower. Last
month, REpower said it supported Suzlon's 1.34-billion-euro (1.82
-billion-dollar) offer against a rival one by French company
Areva.


"We believe our extensive experience with wind power technology,
combined with Suzlon's drive to continually improve is going to
go a long way to benefit wind power projects to come," said PPM
chief executive Terry Hudgens in the same statement.


Suzlon, which has annual revenues of 867 million dollars, has
manufacturing facilities in Belgium, China, India and the United
States.

