

Jordan on Wednesday defended its decision to ban this week's
edition of Al-Majd newspaper, which was to carry a plan to
dissolve the Palestinian parliament, on grounds of the kingdom's
own national security.


The weekly Al-Majd was banned from the newsstands because it ran
"information damaging to national security and the interests of
Jordan," government spokesman Nasser Jawdeh told reporters.


Journalists' union chief Tareq Momani sided with the government,
charging Al- Majd's report was "totally false" and not based on
any reliable sources.


Jordanian censors halted printing of Monday's edition over an
article detailing a plan for Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas
to dissolve the Islamist-dominated parliament, its editor said.


"The Jordanian security services, which censor newspapers in
advance, intervened during the night to stop our print-run," Fahd
al-Rimawi told AFP.


Abbas had threatened to call early elections for both parliament
and the presidency in the face of months of deadly factionional
fighting between his secular Fatah party and the Islamists of
Hamas.


But in February he reached a power-sharing agreement in Saudi
Arabia with exiled Hamas leader Khaled Meshaal, and on March 17 a
new national unity government took power.


This was not the first time that Al-Majd, which describes its
editorial position as "Arab nationalist," has had a run-in with
Jordanian authorities.


Rimawi was detained for several days in May 2004 after an
editorial on Saudi Arabia also deemed damaging to Jordan's
foreign relations. The weekly was banned for two months at the
time.


Jordan's parliament in March voted to scrap a clause in a
controversial bill that called for journalists to be jailed for
certain "publication offences."

