

More than 1,000 Afghan students demanded the withdrawal of US
troops in a fourth day of demonstrations Wednesday over civilians
allegedly killed by coalition troops.


University students in the eastern city of Jalalabad burned a US
flag, shouted slogans against President George W. Bush and
demanded his Afghan counterpart Hamid Karzai take action against
troops involved in an incident on Sunday which they say caused
civilian deaths.


The US-led coalition said it conducted a raid on a suspected
suicide bombing cell on Sunday in which four militants were
killed and a woman and a teenager were caught in the crossfire.
Locals say all six were civilians.


Protesters from the Nangarhar University chanted "Death to Bush,
Death to Karzai." They demanded that the 14,000-strong US-led
coalition based in Afghanistan leave the war-torn country.


"The Americans must leave Afghanistan because they don't respect
Afghanistan," said one.


There were similar protests in the area on Sunday and on Tuesday,
when the demonstrators burned an effigy of Bush.


On Monday, about 1,000 people took to the streets in the Shindand
district of the western province of Herat alleging civilians were
killed in days of fighting that the coalition said killed 136
Taliban.


Herat police said Tuesday at least 30 civilians were killed, and
government and UN teams have gone to the area to investigate.


"Why are they (Karzai and Bush) not accounting for the blood of
innocent people who are being killed by the Americans on our
soil?" said one of the Nangarhar University students in
Wednesday's protest.


"The Americans have invaded our country. They have made
themselves the owners and us their slaves," shouted another,
cheered by the crowd.


Parliamentarians also expressed anger this week at mounting
civilian deaths in military operations against insurgents.

