

Barcelona's veteran defender Lilian Thuram made a swift riposte
Wednesday to Real Madrid's insistence that the title is there for
the taking as the three-way fight for La Liga enters its final
stages.


Real Madrid, without a trophy of any kind since their last
championship success in 2003, believe they can finally end their
drought and take this season's Liga crown if they can see off
rivals Sevilla on Sunday as they chase down a two- point deficit
on Barca, champions for the past two years.


Real's Brazilian midfielder Emerson and chairman Ramon Calderon
insisted Tuesday that the capital club intended to end up top of
the pile after a recent run of good form which they hope will
extend to a home win Sunday over second-placed Sevilla.


But Thuram, whose Barca travel this weekend to relegation-haunted
Real Sociedad, insisted the Catalan club are hellbent on
completing their hattrick.


"For the time being, it's Real who are behind and having to play
catch up," 1998 world champion Thuram told reporters.


"The run-in will be tough but the important thing is we are
thoroughly focused on winning the league. We are top players who
know what it takes in such situations."


The former French international was at fault for the goals which
saw Barca lose out to Villarreal last month but said the team
would redouble their efforts to bolster recently shaky away form.


He added that Lyon star Eric Abidal, mooted as a possible summer
signing, was a "great player" who would boost the Catalan outfit
but said he was not aware if any approach had been made to the
French champions.

