

Iraqi Oil Minister Hussein Shahristani warned on Wednesday that
any oil contracts signed by northern Iraq's Kurdish regional
government before a new oil law is passed would be considered
invalid.


"Any agreement will not be considered valid and legal under the
current Iraqi law or under the new law," if signed before
parliament passes new legislation, he said on the sidelines of an
energy conference in Saudi Arabia.


"Therefore, companies should refrain from (signing) any contracts
before the new law is passed by parliament and the Federal
Council for Oil and Gas can approve those contracts," he told
reporters.


The bill, approved by the Shiite-led government in February after
months of wrangling, opens Iraq's oil sector to foreign
investors.


Under the terms of the draft oil law, Iraq's oil industry will be
overseen by a Federal Oil Council and an independent national oil
firm.


Revenue will be concentrated in a federal account, and
redistributed to provinces on the basis of their populations,
which would give the Kurds around 18 to 20 percent of the
national cake.


Shahristani hoped the Iraqi parliament would manage to approve
the bill before the May 31 deadline.


"It has been sent to parliament. There has been an agreement
among political parties to work together to try to pass it before
the end of this month," the minister said.


"We still hope parliament will be able to do that ... but with
parliament debate, you can never be sure how long it will take,"
he said.


The Kurdish regional government's oil minister, Ashti Hawrami,
said last month that if parliament fails to pass the law by the
end-of-May deadline, the Kurds government would award their own
contracts.


Iraq, with proven reserves of some 115 billion barrels, has an
output of two million barrels per day, but it has the potential
to produce much more.

