

Nearly 4,000 mothers around the Philippines on Wednesday set a
new world record for simultaneous breastfeeding, organisers said.


At least 3,869 mothers began feeding their babies at 10:00 am
(0200 GMT) sharp in basketball courts and community health
centres at 156 sites around the country.


"We are certain we were able to establish a new Guinness world
record on breastfeeding in multiple sites," said Nona Andaya-
Castillo, one of the organisers.


Last year the Philippines set a new world record for a single
site when 3,738 mothers breastfed their babies in a sports
stadium in Manila beating the previous record of 1,135 mothers
set in Berkeley, California in 2005.


Organised by advocacy groups along with the United Nations
Children's Fund (UNICEF), the departments of health and social
welfare and local governments, the event was intended to raise
public awareness of breast feeding and discourage mothers from
using infant milk formulas.


In Manila alone, 1,028 mothers participated in the event at
gymnasium.


Andaya-Castillo said the event was "not only for the record" but
a drive to urge mothers to stop using infant milk formulas which
"do not guard children from various illnesses and infections such
as asthma and diarrhea."


According to the World Health Organisation, children fed with
infant formula are 25 times more likely to die of diarrhea than
those who are breast-fed.


"Stop using formula milk. A baby deserves his mother's milk,"
said health department chief Francisco Duque at the event.


The event also stressed the health benefits of breast feeding for
the mothers, protecting them from postpartum hemorrhage, anemia
and even breast cancer.

