

Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki urged the world to stand
alongside Iraq and fight against terrorism, on the eve of a key
international conference in Egypt.


"The goal of the International Compact with Iraq (ICI) is not
only to reduce Iraq's debt but also to obtain support for the
political and democratic process, as well as support in the
battle against terrorism," Maliki told reporters upon his arrival
at Sharm el-Sheikh airport.


"The danger of terrorism is increasing and spreading beyond the
borders of Iraq," he said, referring to recent bomb attacks in
Saudi Arabia, Morocco and Algeria.


Foreign ministers and diplomats representing 49 countries are
converging on the Egyptian Sinai resort for a two-day conference
seen as the biggest diplomatic push to solve Iraq's woes since
the 2003 invasion.


Thursday's talks will focus on the ICI, a fresh initiative which
provides a five-year plan to achieve stability and economic
prosperity.


The second day of the conference will focus on bringing all of
Iraq's neighbours together as well as the United Nations, United
States and European Union for unprecedented talks.


"We want there to be an international and Arab consensus to fight
against deviant ideas and terrorists who want to destroy
civilisation and progress, which is something we are all working
towards," Maliki added.


Maliki, who is due to hold talks with US Secretary of State
Condoleezza Rice later Wednesday, is part of an Iraqi delegation
which includes Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari and National
Security Advisor Muwaffaq al-Rubaie.

