

President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad vowed on Wednesday that Iran would
not yield "an inch" on its nuclear programme despite the
reopening of talks with the European Union to find a solution to
the standoff.


"We do not ask for an inch more than our rights and we will not
yield an inch on our nuclear rights," said Ahmadinejad in a
speech to crowds of supporters at a stadium in the southern city
of Kerman.


"We will resist until the end against those who want to violate
our rights and will cut the hand of aggressors.


"Iran possesses the nuclear fuel cycle at the industrial level
and we want to use all the capacities of nuclear energy," he
added in the speech broadcast live on state television.


The speech, which marked the start of Ahmadinejad's latest
provincial tour, was punctuated by cries of "Death to America"
and "Nuclear Energy is our Natural Right" from the faithful.


The comments represent Iran's latest reaffirmation of its refusal
to freeze uranium enrichment activities in defiance of UN calls
for Tehran to suspend the sensitive process.


The enrichment of uranium is hugely sensitive because it can be
used both to make nuclear fuel and the fissile core of an atomic
bomb.


The United States accuses Iran of seeking nuclear weapons but
Tehran insists that it wants only to produce energy for a growing
population.


Iranian chief nuclear negotiator Ali Larijani and EU foreign
policy chief Javier Solana met last week for talks in Turkey in
their first meeting since February.


Larijani said afterwards that the two sides were heading towards
a "united view" and the men are expected to meet again in the
coming weeks.


Diplomats from the five veto-wielding permanent members of the
United Nations Security Council plus Germany were to meet in
London later Wednesday to discuss their next moves.

