

British pharmacy giant Alliance Boots, which has agreed to a
takeover from US private equity group KKR, said Wednesday that
profits increased by 11.2 percent last year.


Net profits jumped to 467 million pounds (687 million euros, 931
million dollars) in the group's financial year which finished on
March 31, 2007, compared with 419 million in the previous year.
Revenue rose 3.6 percent to 14.608 billion pounds.


"We have delivered a strong financial performance while executing
one of the biggest mergers undertaken in the UK," chief executive
Richard Baker said in the earnings release.


Alliance Boots was created last year by the British merger of
pharmacy chain Alliance UniChem and health and beauty retailer
Boots.


Baker added: "The results reaffirm our belief that in Alliance
Boots we have created a leading international pharmacy-led health
and beauty group with attractive prospects and opportunities."


Last week, Alliance Boots agreed to the KKR takeover which valued
Europe's biggest pharmacy chain at 11.0 billion pounds (16.2
billion euros, 22 billion dollars).


Kohlberg Kravis Roberts emerged as winner after battling against
a rival consortium led by British private equity group Terra
Firma to buy Alliance Boots.


KKR has been joined in its bid by the executive deputy chairman
of Alliance Boots, Stefano Pessina -- who holds 15.05 percent of
the pharmacy group.


A takeover by KKR, providing it is accepted by Alliance Boots
shareholders, would represent Europe's biggest buyout by a
private equity firm.


The KKR consortium also said last week that it owned 29.3 percent
of issued capital in Alliance Boots.

