

Bulgaria's National Electricity Company (NEC) launched a call
Wednesday for offers from strategic equity investors to help
build and run a new nuclear power plant at Belene in the north of
the country.


Potential investors will receive up to 49 percent of the share
capital of the joint public-private Belene Power Company, which
will finance construction and operate the new plant, NEC said in
a statement.


"The investor will be expected to assist the debt financing of
the Belene Power Company either by providing a corporate
guarantee" or contracting a share of the electricity produced by
the plant, the statement said.


NEC itself will retain at least 51 percent of the shares of the
Belene Power Company, it added.


The deadline for offers is July 6, 2007.


Bulgaria last November signed a contract with Russian company
Atomstroyexport to build the long-stalled 2,000-megawatt nuclear
facility for just under 4 billion euros (5.1 billion dollars).


Construction work on the first of the plant's two reactors is
scheduled to begin in 2008, with the first reactor expected to be
operational by January 2014 and the second a year later.


The Belene project, launched in 1987, was halted a couple of
years later following pressure from environmentalists.


But Bulgaria renewed plans to build the facility in 2005 to
compensate for an expected downturn in its energy exports after
the scheduled closure in late 2006 of two out of four operational
reactors at its single nuclear power plant at Kozloduy.


The country used to be one of the Balkans' main exporters of
energy, supplying some 7.8 billion kilowatt-hours of electricity
abroad in 2006, but it agreed to close the reactors ahead of its
entry into the European Union in 2007.

