

The International Criminal Court (ICC) has issued its first
arrest warrants over the Darfur conflict for a Sudanese minister
and a Janjaweed militia leader, court documents released
Wednesday showed.


The arrest warrants charge Ahmed Haroun, Sudan's secretary of
state for humanitarian affairs and a former minister in charge of
Darfur, and Ali Kosheib, a principal leader of the Janjaweed
militia, with 51 counts of war crimes and crimes against humanity
including murder, torture and mass rape.


The trial chamber said there were "reasonable grounds" to
conclude the pair are "criminally responsible" for war crimes and
crimes against humanity as the prosecution had demanded in
February. The charges focus on a series of attacks on villages in
Western Darfur in 2003 and 2004.


"We completed an investigation under very difficult
circumstances, from outside Darfur, and without exposing any of
our witnesses. We transformed their stories into evidence, and
now the judges have confirmed the strength of that evidence," ICC
prosecutor Luis Moreno-Ocampo said in a statement.


"The judges have issued arrest warrants. As the territorial
state, the government of the Sudan has a legal duty to arrest
Ahmed Haroun and Ali Kosheib. This is the International Criminal
Court's decision, and the government has to respect it," he
stressed.


Sudan insists that the ICC has no jurisdiction to try alleged
crimes committed in Darfur. However the case was referred to the
court by a UN Security Council resolution which also called on
Sudan to cooperate with the ICC.


The conflict in Darfur has caused 200,000 deaths and led to two
million people being displaced, according to the United Nations.
Sudan contests the figures, saying that only 9,000 have died.

