

Defence Minister Amir Peretz is to resign in the wake of a
damning inquiry that said he failed in his post during the
Lebanon war, Israeli media reported on Wednesday citing his
aides.


"Mr Peretz is to announce his resignation in the coming hours,"
army and public radio reported.


"Mr Peretz took this decision as he is ratifying the report's
conclusions and is aiming to conform to norms of behaviour
required of those who exercise public office," the website of the
tabloid Maariv quoted a Peretz aide as saying.


The office of Peretz, the leader of Olmert's main coalition
partner Labour, declined to comment on the reports.


Should Peretz resign, he will become the most senior casualty of
the Winograd Commission interim report on last year's war against
Hezbollah that was issued on Monday.


The report roasted Peretz, a former trade unionist whose military
experience was limited to national army service before he assumed
his post, saying he "failed in fulfilling his functions."


The resignation of the 55-year-old Peretz would pile the pressure
on Olmert to follow suit amid an open mutiny within his party for
him to step down.


The Winograd report blasted Olmert for serious failure during the
34-day war that killed more than 1,200 Lebanese, mostly
civilians, and more than 160 Israelis, mostly soldiers, according
to government figures.


The war failed to achieve the Jewish state's main goals of
freeing two soldiers seized by Hezbollah in a deadly cross-border
raid on July 12 that sparked the hostilities and stopping the
Shiite militia's rocket fire into northern Israel that killed
dozens of civilians.

