

Former Liverpool winger Patrik Berger is to be rewarded for the
recent upturn in his form by being offered a new contract at
Aston Villa, the club confirmed on Wednesday.


Czech international Berger, 33, was loaned out to Stoke in
November following a breach of club discipline and appeared to be
living on borrowed time at Villa Park.


But he has recently returned to the first team and done enough to
convince manager Martin O'Neill that he is worth holding on to.


"I'll definitely be offering Patrik something," O'Neill said. "He
has done brilliantly - really great. He didn't start on Saturday
but I wouldn't read too much into that.


"If he can remain fit for a year - and that's the big thing -
then I think he'd be able to make the same contribution as he has
since January. I wouldn't want to minimise that in any way
because he came on in games where he's been really brilliant.


"He has given us that bit of composure which was what we needed
at that stage because things were getting a bit frantic."


O'Neill added: "There are not too many players outside of the top
teams at this minute who have Patrik's vision. I never said his
career here was finished, but you would have got long odds on the
contribution he has made after going to Stoke because he didn't
really get into their team.


"He came back, and I think the realisation that the great days as
a footballer playing in front of big crowds might be over has
maybe given him that inspiration which has brought out the very
best in him.


"The main thing is that he's been fit - or mostly fit - the two
games in three days over Easter probably did for him."


Berger joined Villa in July 2005 on a free transfer from
Portsmouth.

