

Manufacturing activity in the 13 nations that share the euro held
steady in April although the European currency's recent strength
took its toll on exports, according to a widely watched survey on
Wednesday.


The eurozone's seasonally adjusted purchasing managers' index
(PMI), compiled by NTC Research, was flat in April at 55.4 points
compared to March, in line with private economists' expectations
for 55.5 points.


A reading above 50 indicates that the manufacturing sector is
generally expanding, while a reading below 50 suggests that it is
generally contracting.


"Despite the strong euro, the manufacturing sector is growing at
a steady clip in the eurozone," said Bank of America economist
Holger Schmieding.


"Judging by the monthly survey of purchasing managers, an
improved outlook for employment at home is offsetting a decline
in export orders," he added.


As the euro rose to reach all-time highs against the dollar and
the yen, new export orders grew at the slowest pace since August
2005, weighing on overall new orders which saw the weakest
monthly rise in 15 months.


However, manufacturers kept taking on more workers to boost
capacity, pushing the rate of job creation to the highest level
in six and a half years.


"As an economic upswing matures, growth typically shifts from
exports and business investment, which are both heavily focused
on manufacturing, to more service-oriented private consumption,"
said Schmieding.


"The PMI report suggests that the eurozone is starting this
transition," he added.


Job growth in the manufacturing sector has helped push
unemployment lower across the eurozone, where the jobless rate
fell in March to a record low of 7.2 percent, according to data
released Wednesday by the EU's Eurostat data agency.

