

Hong Kong share prices closed 0.34 percent higher Wednesday led
by index heavyweight HSBC following news that a unit of Dubai
International Capital (DIC) has made a substantial investment in
the global banking giant, dealers said.


Strong performances on Wall Street and in Tokyo also prompted
some bargain- hunting following losses before the Labour Day
holiday although trading overall was lacklustre, they said.


The key Hang Seng index closed up 69.51 points at 20,388.49, off
a low of 20,351.26 and high of 20,483.24. Turnover was 46.98
billion dollars (6.02 billion US dollars).


The market was closed Tuesday.


"Trading altogether was listless save for gains in HSBC which
inspired buying of other blue chips," said Peter Lai, investment
manager at DBS Vickers.


"Today's gains were also a reflection of the strong performance
of markets overseas. There was a bit of bargain-hunting going on
after the sharp fall in the market before the holiday," he said.


Lai said there was "strong interest in HSBC on news of DIC's
investment. It provided investors an excuse to accumulate the
share after recent weakness."


DIC announced that one of its units has made an substantial
investment in HSBC Holdings PLC, making it one of the leading
shareholders in the global banking giant.


Lai expects the news to have "limited impact" on the stock going
forward saying "there is no fundamental change in the bank ...
that will merit further upside in the near term."


HSBC closed up 1.10 dollar at 145.40 dollars.


Michael Chan, research head at CSC Securities said interest in
HSBC was also supported by the recent announcement that the bank
will sell its headquarters in London for 1.09 billion pounds
(2.29 billion US dollars).


"The deal is largest single real estate transaction in the UK and
the bank is expected to book an exceptional gain in its 2007
results," he said.


"There is also talk that HSBC will be invited to list in
(China's) A-share market," Chan added.


HSBC unit Hang Seng Bank was up 1.50 at 111.80.


Among other large-caps, Hutchison Whampoa was up 0.05 at 75.80
and Swire Pacific rose 1.0 at 90.75.


Properties were mostly higher, with Cheung Kong up 1.10 at 103.10
and Sun Hung Kai Properties up 0.45 at 92.35.


DBS' Lai said trading for the rest of the week will likely be
rangebound as expectations of further macro-economic tightening
measures on the mainland will keep many investors sidelined.


"Chinese financials and other H shares have turned weaker amid
worries about further macroeconomic controls," he said.


He said that China may raise interest rates and impose new levies
on property transactions.


"Such speculation is affecting sentiment for H shares and
limiting recovery of certain real estate counters despite recent
losses," Lai added.


Among Chinese real estate stocks, Guangzhou RF was down 0.08 at
18.89 and Country Garden was down 0.05 at 7.0.


Among China financials, Construction Bank was down 0.02 at 4.76
and Bank of Communications shed 0.04 at 8.24.

