

Iraq on Wednesday urged participants at the upcoming conference
in the Egyptian resort of Sharm el-Sheikh to cancel its debt and
help restore security.


"We are urging the international community to cancel Iraq's debt
and we ask participants to help stabilise Iraq," government
spokesman Ali al-Dabbagh told reporters.


He was speaking as preliminary talks got under way between
officials, who started arriving from the world over to attend the
May 3-4 conference.


"The security and stability of Iraq is in the interest of all
countries in the region and the world. Each country participating
in this conference can help rebuild Iraq," Dabbagh said.


The two-day conference starts in earnest on Thursday with the
launch of the International Compact with Iraq (ICI), an
initiative providing a framework for Iraq's security and economic
development.


The second day of the conference focuses on bringing all of
Iraq's neighbours together as well as the United Nations, United
States and European Union for unprecedented talks.


Sabbagh indicated that the conference was not expected to yield a
much-awaited timetable for a US troop withdrawal from Iraq.


"We think that we need a schedule to rebuild Iraqi forces and
security responsibility will be transferred. Then we will fix a
timetable," the government spokesman said.


Iraqi forces have so far reclaimed security responsibility over
four of the country's provinces. Extending the handover to all 18
provinces is believed to require at least another year.


Attending the two-day conference for Iraq will be a delegation
including Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki, Foreign Minister Hoshyar
Zebari and National Security Advisor Muwaffaq al-Rubaie.

