

It's official: city life is getting faster.


Using residents' walking speed as an indicator of the pace of
life, British research published Wednesday ranked Singapore,
Copenhagen and Madrid as the world's most frenetic cities.


The study found that globally, people's walking speeds have
increased by 10 percent over the last decade, with the biggest
increases in the Far East.


In Singapore, walking pace rose by 30 percent and in Guangzhou,
China, the figure was 20 percent.


But some cities usually noted for their intensity feature
relatively low down the scale -- New York is rated eighth, London
12th and Tokyo 16th. The most laid-back places are Blantyre in
Malawi and Manama, Bahrain.


The research was carried out by Professor Richard Wiseman, of the
University of Hertfordshire, in Hatfield, north of London, who
measured the average time it took 35 adults in each city to walk
60 feet (18 metres).


"By 2040, we'll be arriving before we set off," said Wiseman.


"The psychology is basically that people's walking pace is
determined by how much they think they're in a hurry; how quickly
they think they should be doing things.


"I believe a lot of it is technology-driven. What's amazing is
that these days, you press send on an email and, if someone
hasn't responded in 10 minutes, you think: 'Where are they?'"


Wiseman compared his results with statistics collected by
Professor Robert Levine, from California State University in the
United States, ten years ago, to see how much we have speeded up.


People worried about whether their lives were too frantic should
ask themselves questions like whether they were often first to
finish meals, if they felt frustrated when stuck behind others
walking down the street and whether they walked out of shops if
there was a small queue, Wiseman said.

