

Turkey's ruling party on Wednesday proposed a new timetable for
the turbulent presidential election in parliament, whose first
round was cancelled by the Constitutional Court.


The Justice and Development Party (AKP) insists that the first
round of the election -- that can go up to four -- be repeated,
even though the sole candidate, Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul, is
unlikely to win the required two- thirds support with parliament
concentrating on early general elections.


The AKP suggested the first round be held Sunday, the second
round on May 9, the third on May 12 and the fourth and final
round on May 15.


AKP officials had originally decided on Thursday for the first
round of voting.


Gul said late Tuesday he would not press ahead with his candidacy
if he again fails to win the necessary support in the first
round.


The AKP on Wednesday called for early legislative elections on
June 24 as a way out of Turkey's current political crisis after
the Constitutional Court annulled Friday's  first round of
presidential voting on the grounds that the 550-seat parliament
met without the required quorum of 367.


The AKP, which has 351 seats, was left almost alone in the
assembly after the opposition boycotted the vote.


The crisis erupted over widespread opposition to the prospect of
a president from the AKP, the moderate offshoot of a now-banned
Islamist party, whose opponents accuse it of not being truly
committed to Turkey's secular system and of eroding the
separation of state and religion.


The main opposition Republican people's Party petitioned the
Constitutional Court Friday to block Gul's candidacy and force
early parliamentary elections.

