

President George W. Bush called on Congress on Wednesday to
approve a "strategic" US-Colombia free trade deal after breakfast
and talks with his Colombian counterpart Alvaro Uribe.


Bush also asked US lawmakers to approve other Latin American free
trade agreements with Panama and Peru to send a message of
support to the region.


"I urge the Congress to pass a trade agreement with Colombia and
Peru and Panama because it's in our interest that they do so,"
Bush told reporters.


"They're signals to South America that we stand with nations that
are willing to make hard decisions on behalf of the people."


Bush said there was more than commerce at stake.


"This agreement has strategic implications. It is very important
for this nation to stand with democracies that protect human
rights and human dignity; democracies based upon the rule of
law," the US president said.


Uribe, a close Bush ally who was also lobbying Congress for
continued US military aid, described the trade agreement as "very
important."


The Colombian president said his country was committed to
building "security with human rights," fighting drug trafficking
and terrorists and promoting social reforms.


"Today, because of the efficacy of our administration, the vast
majority of Colombians are convinced that we will defeat
terrorists by institutional ways; that the only way Colombia has
for the future is the way of our democratic institutions," said
Uribe, speaking in English.


With the US Congress now under control of the Democrats, adoption
of the trade deal is by no means guaranteed and lawmakers have
asked for amending the accord to address social and environmental
concerns.


Congress already has blocked 55 billion dollars in military aid
for Colombia amid allegations officials close to Uribe had links
to right-wing paramilitaries.


Bush defended Uribe as "a true democrat, a strong leader, and a
friend."

