

FIFA President Sepp Blatter said Wednesday that he had no doubts
that the 2010 World Cup will take place in South Africa short of
a natural disaster.


"I have no doubts, not one single doubt," Blatter said, adding
that he would publicly proclaim the world governing body's
confidence in South Africa's ability to organise the event at
FIFA's Congress from May 29.


"Seven (South African) ministers will be there. I will confirm in
front of the whole congress that South Africa will organise the
World Cup," he told journalists.


FIFA's executive committee gave the South Africans their full
backing in March, following months of doubts caused by initial
delays in building work for new stadia and infrastructure.


However, Blatter touched off a controversy by pointing out in an
interview Monday that there were fall back options for the World
Cup in the United States, Mexico or Japan in the event of an
emergency.


Blatter underlined Wednesday that contingency plans existed for
all major FIFA tournaments wherever they were meant to be held.


"We'll go to South Africa because they know how to do it, but
we'd be badly off if there was a weather or natural disaster
somewhere -- we have to be prepared."


FIFA officials underlined that the 2003 Women's World Cup was
held in Germany, replacing chosen host China at short notice
because of the outbreak of the SARS respiratory disease in Asia.
China is hosting the event this year.


Similar plans have existed before. Countries earmarked as
possible emergency hosts must have enough existing stadiums and
infrastructure to handle the 32 nations, fans, TV and media
coverage at short notice.

