

Foreign troops securing East Timor found a gun, other weapons and
cash in a convoy of cars carrying ruling Fretilin party officials
Wednesday, presidential candidate Jose Ramos-Horta claimed.


Ramos-Horta made the comments as the campaign intensified between
the Nobel laureate and his opponent, Fretilin candidate Francisco
Guterres, ahead of a second round of voting next week for
president of the troubled country.


Ramos-Horta, currently the prime minister, said he had been
briefed on the discovery by Brigadier Mal Rerden, the head of the
Australian-led peacekeeping force that has been restoring
security in East Timor for almost a year.


He told reporters that Justice Minister Dominggos Sarmento was in
one of the cars, which were all heading to a Fretilin campaign
rally.


"The ISF (International Stability Force) was doing their job,
manning a checkpoint before a Fretilin rally, and in one of the
cars an automatic firearm was found," Ramos-Horta said.


Another car was found with 5,000 dollars in cash, he said, adding
that arrows and slingshots were also found. He said Sarmento told
the troops that the money was to be used for ministerial
projects.


Sarmento and Brigadier Rerden could not immediately be contacted
for comment on the claims.


Neither Ramos-Horta or Guterres won an absolute majority in the
April 9 election for president, prompting the runoff next
Wednesday.


The election is the first since impoverished East Timor won
independence in 2002, following a bloody split from occupying
Indonesian forces.


Several thousand peacekeepers have been patrolling the streets
since unrest last year descended into gang violence that left 37
people dead and forced 150,000 more to flee their homes.


Ramos-Horta said he would seek clarification of the incident, in
his capacity as prime minister, when official campaigning ended
on May 7.

