

Asian stocks closed with solid gains Wednesday after encouraging
US data and another record performance on Wall Street provided
further support for markets already at or near record highs,
dealers said.


They said positive US manufacturing figures highlighted the
underlying strength of the US economy and more than offset weak
housing sector news, setting up the region for a strong day.


Trade was somewhat quiet given the many holidays this week while
investors were mostly reluctant to be too aggressive ahead the
key US employment report due Friday, which will likely set the
near-term tone.


Sydney, added 1.5 percent for a record finish as investors there
took Wall Street at its word and welcomed a central bank decision
to leave interest rates on hold as meaning there is unlikely to
be any further hikes this year.


Tokyo put on 0.69 percent as the market wound down for a 4-day
weekend.


TOKYO: Japanese share prices ended with a gain of 0.69 percent
after Wall Street notched up another record finish overnight and
the dollar hit a two-month high against the yen, dealers said.


They said, however, that trading was relatively quiet ahead of a
four-day holiday weekend in Tokyo with the market to re-open on
Monday.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
gained 119.94 points at 17,394.92. The broader Topix index of all
first-section shares added 10.97 points or 0.65 percent to
1,704.22.


Gainers outnumbered decliners 1,001 to 593, with 132 stocks flat.


Volume slipped to 1.71 billion shares from 1.79 billion on
Tuesday.


"Gains were underpinned by the upbeat tone on Wall Street
overnight which prompted market expectations that foreign
investors will buy Japanese shares," said Mitsushige Akino, chief
fund manager at Ichiyoshi Management.


"Also, the softer yen sparked buying," he said.


"But investors are also cautious about the movement of overseas
markets, particularly in the US and Europe, during the holiday in
Japan, especially (with) the US non-farm payrolls data due out
Friday," Akino added.


Friday's US employment report for April is expected to help shape
market expectations on US interest rates ahead of a US central
bank meeting on May 9.


SEOUL: South Korean share prices closed 0.72 percent higher,
coming up just short of the all-time high after another record
performance on Wall Street overnight, dealers said.


Major IT stocks and financials led the gains while shipbuilders
and machinery makers gave a mixed showing amid profit-taking in
the broader market, they said.


The KOSPI index added 11.06 points at 1,553.30, off a low of
1,546.60 and a high of 1,555.65. The market closed at a record
1,556.71 on 24th April.


Volume was 269 million shares worth 3.6 trillion won (3.9 billion
dollars). Rises outnumbered falls 488 to 271, with 75 shares
unchanged.


Institutions and foreign investors were net sellers of shares
worth 3.56 billon won and 1.76 billion won while retail investors
were net buyers for 23.2 billion won.


"The market saw a good start for the new month thanks to the
Dow's record- breaking rally," Meritz Securities' analyst Shim
Jae-Yeop said.


He cautioned, however, that foreign investors' absence on the buy
side leaves the market vulnerable to a correction at any time,
noting that foreigners had turned net sellers after recent heavy
purchases.


Hyundai Motor rose 2,300 won or 3.88 percent to 61,600 supported
by rotational interest after recent weakness. It said earlier its
first-quarter operating profit fell 13.1 percent to 291.4 billion
won year-on-year as weaker sales and a stronger won pressured
earning but this was still above market forecasts.


HONG KONG: Hong Kong share prices closed 0.34 percent higher, led
by index heavyweight HSBC following news that a unit of Dubai
International Capital (DIC) has made a substantial investment in
the global banking giant, dealers said.


Strong performances on Wall Street and in Tokyo also prompted
some bargain- hunting following losses before the Labour Day
holiday although trading overall was lacklustre, they said.


The key Hang Seng index closed up 69.51 points at 20,388.49, off
a low of 20,351.26 and high of 20,483.24. Turnover was 46.98
billion dollars (6.02 billion US dollars).


The market was closed Tuesday.


"Trading altogether was listless save for gains in HSBC which
inspired buying of other blue chips," said Peter Lai, investment
manager at DBS Vickers.


"The gains were also a reflection of the strong performance of
markets overseas. There was a bit of bargain-hunting going on
after the sharp fall in the market before the holiday," he said.


Lai said there was "strong interest in HSBC on news of DIC's
investment. It provided investors an excuse to accumulate the
share after recent weakness."


DIC announced that one of its units has made an substantial
investment in HSBC Holdings PLC, making it one of the leading
shareholders in the global banking giant.


Lai expects the news to have "limited impact" on the stock going
forward saying "there is no fundamental change in the bank ...
that will merit further upside in the near term."


HSBC closed up 1.10 dollar at 145.40 dollars.


SHANGHAI: Closed for a public holiday


TAIPEI: Taiwan share prices closed 0.35 percent higher after late
profit-taking capped an early technical rebound driven by Wall
Street's overnight gains, dealers said.


They said investors remained cautious about the possibilty that
China, a major market and investment destination, may take more
steps to cool its runaway economy.


The weighted index added 27.62 points at 7,903.04, after trading
between 7,890.54 and 7,951.69 on turnover of 88.58 billion
dollars (2.68 billion US).


Decliners led gains 708 to 452, with 213 stocks unchanged.


Mega International Investment Services assistant vice president
Alex Huang said the New York lead and positive corporate factors
lent support to Taipei stocks.


"Some firms reported upbeat earnings for the first quarter to
March."


However, the tourism sector extended losses as hopes for moves to
allow more mainland Chinese tourists contined to dim, he said,
while technical factors point to possible consolidation at the
7,800-8,100 points level.


SYDNEY: Australian share prices jumped 1.5 percent to a fresh
all-time high after another record performance on Wall Street
overnight lifted the market, dealers said.


They said the central bank's decision to leave interest on hold
at 6.25 percent added to the momentum driven by Wall Street where
stocks got a solid boost from better-than-expected US
manufacturing data.


The benchmark SP/ASX 200 closed up 91.9 points at 6,237.7,
beating the previous record set on April 18. The All Ordinaries
also topped its previous best, adding 84.3 points to close at
6,224.5.


Turnover was 1.62 billion shares worth 6.47 billion dollars (5.4
billion US), with 718 stocks up, 488 down and 401 unchanged.


"(The data) has eased some of the concerns that the US might be
heading for a recession and, of course, the US economy growing is
very positive for the Asia region and that's why it has been
embraced (Wednesday)," CommSec chief economist Craig James said.


James said the local market made its best one-day gain since mid-
April following a period of consolidation.


"I think investors are also concluding that the big picture
environment remains pretty positive, with interest rates on hold
here domestically and the economy in good shape plus the fact
that the US economy looks as though it still has room to grow,"
James said.


SINGAPORE: Singapore share prices closed 1.68 percent higher on
buoyant sentiment driven by a record finish on Wall Street
overnight, dealers said.


Optimism ahead of corporate results due this week also prompted
some buying, they said.


The Straits Times Index jumped 56.52 points to 3,417.81 on volume
of 3.35 billion shares worth 2.32 billion dollars (1.54 billion
US) Gains led declines 491 to 312 with 632 stocks unchanged.


OCBC Investment Research said the next two to three weeks will
provide critical assessments for first-quarter corporate results
and guidance on second-quarter performances.


"As investors move more into second- to third-liners, the
importance of earnings meeting expectations is even more
critical," OCBC analyst Carmen Lee said in a note.


Kim Eng Securities was less optimistic, saying that from a
technical viewpoint, its best case scenario will see earnings
surprises resulting in only sideways market movement.


"Hence, it may be opportune for short-term investors to take some
of their chips off the table," the brokerage said.


KUALA LUMPUR: Closed for a public holiday


BANGKOK: Thai share prices closed 0.90 percent higher as
investors took heart from an economic stimulus package aimed at
helping low-income earners, dealers said.


They said a fresh record high on Wall Street and regional gains
provided additional support.


The Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET) composite index rose 6.31
points to 705.47, closing above the key 700-point level for the
first time since mid-December, while the blue-chip SET 50 index
added 5.49 points to 497.46.


Gainers led losers 231 to 98, with 116 stocks unchanged on
turnover of 1.9 billion shares worth 13.13 billion baht (377
million dollars).


Thai financial markets were closed on Tuesday due to a public
holiday.


"Sentiment was positive as foreign investors welcomed the
economic stimulus scheme," said Chai Chirasevenupraphand, a
market strategist at Capital Nomura Securities.


Thailand's army-backed government had been under pressure to
launch stimulus measures to support the economy which is expected
to grow just 3.8-4.8 percent in 2007 due to political uncertainty
after a September coup.


Wednesday's package worth 1.2 billion dollars would extend more
loans from state-owned banks to low-income earners and Finance
Minister Chalongphob Sussangkarn said the government was also
mulling easing tax measures.


JAKARTA: Indonesian share prices closed 0.37 percent higher in
volatile trade with late interest in selected large caps helping
the main index end in positive territory, dealers said.


The Jakarta Stock Exchange composite index rose 7.381 points at
2,008.559, after an intraday low of 1,987.885 and a high of
2,016.031. Volume was 7.68 billion shares worth 5.72 trillion
rupiah (630.30 million dollars.) Declines led gainers 114 to 93,
with 42 stocks unchanged.


"With sentiment on select big cap stocks such as Telkom and PGN
remaining negative, I think the late gains are not going to be
sustained," said Krishna Dwi Setiawan, an analyst with Valbury
Asia Securities.


The market hit a record high of 2,019.676 on Friday last week so
there is plenty of room for profit-taking, dealers said.


MANILA: Philippine share prices closed flat as last-minute
profit-taking in blue chips offset gains in the broader market,
dealers said.


Investors turned cautious in the absence of fresh leads and did
not sustain the early buy interest, with important elections for
Congress due later this month a major concern.


The Philippine Stock Exchange composite index rose 1.26 points at
3,271.99 after trading between 3,270.92 and 3,308.46. The broader
all-share index rose 2.98 points to 2,081.70. Gains led declines
52 to 43 with 63 stocks unchanged.


Volume was 4.59 billion shares worth 3.99 billion pesos (83.96
million dollars).


"We opened stronger on bargain-hunting interest, which
immediately fizzled out as investors decided to lock in profits
quickly given the lack of exciting leads," said Lawrence de Leon
of Accord Capital Equities.


"This also reflects cautiousness in the market with the mid-term
congressional elections now less than two weeks away," de Leon
said.


Filipinos will elect a new batch of 12 senators, over 200
congressmen and thousands for local government positions during
the May 14 polls.


WELLINGTON: New Zealand share prices closed 0.11 percent lower as
investors focussed on the uncertain prospects for the local
economy rather than rises in the US and Australian markets,
dealers said.


The NZX-50 gross index fell 4.67 points to 4,186.99 on turnover
worth 140.4 million dollars (103.5 million US).


Another record finish on Wall Street and strong gains in the
Australian market failed to inspire local investors.


"I think the outlook with interest rates still going up, the
strong (New Zealand) dollar, (means) a number of investors are
prepared to take some profits and sit on the sidelines and see
what happens in the next few months," said Grant Williamson, a
partner with Hamilton, Hindin, Greene.


Market leader Telecom fell three cents to 4.87 dollars ahead of
the company's third quarter results Thursday, with news expected
on how much money will be returned to investors from the sale of
its Yellow Pages business.


"We'll have a lot more detail and possibly expect some volatility
in that share price," Williamson said.


MUMBAI: Closed for public holiday

