

US oil gaint Chevron has shut down 15,000 barrels per day of oil
production in its facility in southern Nigeria following a
militant attack, a company spokesman said Wednesday.


"We have shut down 15,000 bpd from Funiwa oilfield," the
spokesman told AFP.


The company said it took the action "to avoid any additional
security or safety incidents" following Tuesdays' attack on its
floating storage vessel that supports the Funiwa oilfield
offshore southern Bayelsa state.


Nigeria's most high profile armed group, the Movement for the
Emancipation of the Niger Delta (MEND) claimed reponsibility for
the attack in which six foreign oil workers were kidnapped - four
Italians, an American and a Croatian.    One Nigerian navy
officer was killed in the attack.


MEND said it would release the hostages unconditionally on May
30, adding that the attack was meant to embarrass the government
of outgoing President Olusegun Obasanjo, who steps down on May 29
after serving two terms.


"We promised to give the present Nigerian administration a
shameful send-off. This attack is one in a series intended to
embarrass the ... regime," a MEND spokesman said in an email
Tuesday.


Nigeria is the world's sixth-biggest oil exporter, with daily
output of some 2.6 million barrels. Chevron, the country's third
operator, accounts for 520,000 bpd.


In a separate incident on Monday evening in neighbouring Rivers
state, the mother of the governor-elect Celestine Omehia was
kidnapped by an unknown militant group but was released the
following day.


The Niger Delta, a swathe of creeks and swamps and the size of
Scotland, is home to Nigeria's multi-billion dollar oil and gas
industry.


The region has seen a resurgence in violent attacks on oil firms
and personnel over the past two years.


More than 100 foreign workers have been kidnapped, but later
released, while scores of Nigerian security personnel have been
killed by militant groups or armed gangsters.

