

Celebrity magazine OK! won an appeal Wednesday in a long-running
legal battle with rival weekly "Hello" over wedding pictures of
Hollywood super-couple Michael Douglas and Catherine Zeta-Jones.


The House of Lords, Britain's highest court of appeal, backed
OK!'s right to protect its one million US dollar deal with the
couple for exclusive photographs of their November 2000 wedding
at New York's Plaza Hotel.


But the Law Lords ordered the two publications to share the 8
million pounds legal costs, ruling that OK!'s business has not
been harmed by Hello's publication of so-called spoiler pictures.


Hello! secretly took pictures of their New York wedding in
November 2000, despite the deal under which OK! had paid one
million dollars for exclusive pictures of the Plaza Hotel
ceremony.


In Wednesday's ruling, three out of five Law Lords found in OK!'s
favour over confidentiality of their exclusive deal with the
Douglases.


Media lawyers had said beforehand that if OK! won by successfully
arguing there was a right of confidentiality, then a new law
protecting a person's image would be created in Britain.


A lawyer for Hello! magazine lamented the ruling, saying it would
give celebrities "a completely new right which will allow (them)
to control the information that the general public see about
them."


"Undoubtedly if one magazine or media outlet has paid enough for
an event, what the House of Lords are saying ... is that they
will protect that and that any information that doesn't form part
of the exclusive will be banned and will not be able to be
published," he told BBC News 24.


Zeta Jones told the 2003 High Court hearing she felt "devastated,
shocked and appalled" when she realised unauthorised
photographers had gatecrashed her high- security wedding.

