

Canadian authorities were warned before the 1985 Air India
bombing that killed 329 people that an attack on an airline was
imminent, an inquiry was told Monday.


An unidentified man facing unrelated charges told authorities in
October 1984 of a plot "to place a bomb on an Air India plane" in
a bid for leniency from the courts, former Vancouver Police
Department officer Rick Crook said.


The plan was "to strike at the government of India" for its
attack on the sacred Golden Temple at Amritsar, the suspect said
in a police interview, according to a transcript read by Crook at
the inquiry which resumed Monday.


"There was a plan to place a bomb on an Air India plane in
Montreal," Crook testified, saying that he learned in an
interview with the suspect that an "Air India 747" leaving from
Montreal would be targeted.


The suspect said "a small group of people" were involved in the
plot, but did not identify them, he said.


Crook, who was part of the department's Indo-Canadian community
liaison team, said he was mostly unfamiliar with Sikh extremism
in Canada at the time.


The blast killed 329 passengers and crew members, including 280
Canadians, off the coast of Ireland in the world's worst air
attack prior to the September 11, 2001 in the United States.


Prosecutors blamed radical orthodox Sikh immigrants to Canada,
saying the bombing was payback for the Indian government's 1984
army attack on the Sikhs' Golden Temple at Amritsar.


Dozens of witnesses have testified before the inquiry since it
opened in September to probe the Canadian government's failure so
far to prosecute all those responsible.


The only person jailed for the airline bombing was bomb-maker
Inderjit Singh Reyat, who now faces perjury charges over his
testimony at the trial of two other suspects since acquitted.


The alleged mastermind of the plot, Talwinder Singh Parmar, was
killed in a police shootout in India in 1992.

