

Nepal's former rebel Maoists are still blocking the return home
of people displaced by the country's bitter civil war despite a
peace pact, the United Nations said Monday.


The UN Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights said it
had "concluded that in many parts of Nepal, Communist Party of
Nepal (Maoist) local cadres are not complying with the party's
formal commitment to allow displaced persons to return in
safety."


The conflict and threats by the rebels forced tens of thousands
of people to flee their homes during a decade of fighting, with
their land and property seized by the guerrillas.


A key part of a peace deal reached between the Maoists and the
government in November is that displaced persons should be given
their property back and allowed to return home.


Senior Maoist leaders have repeatedly pledged to stick to that
commitment.


"Now that they (Maoists) are part of the interim government, it's
time for them to prove that they have the will to ensure that
these promises are transformed into action," said Lena Sundh, a
UN representative in Nepal.


The Maoists were given five ministerial seats in a 22-member
interim cabinet in early April, but remain on the United States'
list of terrorist organisations.


The UN rights body said local Maoist officials had described many
of the displaced people as "feudals" and "criminals."


The rebels launched their guerrilla war in 1996, aiming to topple
the monarchy and establish a communist republic.


They now say they have given up violence and will abide by
democracy, but have repeatedly been accused of continuing to use
violence and intimidation.


At least 13,000 people were killed in Nepal's civil war, during
which the rebels controlled large swathes of the countryside in
the impoverished Himalayan nation.

