

Wigan boss Paul Jewell could face Football Association sanctions
at an end of season hearing to explain comments made about
referee Phil Dowd.


A personal hearing has been scheduled for May 16 with regard to a
FA charge of improper conduct and/or bringing the game into
disrepute.


Jewell hit out at Dowd following Wigan's 2-1 Premiership defeat
to Arsenal at the Emirates Stadium on February 11.


Jewell blamed Dowd for costing his side victory - and potentially
50 million pounds (100 million dollars) should they be relegated
- after making several controversial decisions which went against
the Latics.


Jewell was left incensed when his side were denied an 80th-minute
penalty when Emile Heskey was fouled by Mathieu Flamini inside
the area.


That could have led to Wigan taking a 2-0 lead and a red card for
Flamini, however, Dowd waved play on.


Within seconds, Dowd further angered Jewell by not letting Josip
Skoko back onto the pitch after he had received treatment.


The Australian was left on the sidelines as Fitz Hall scored the
own goal which led to Arsenal's comeback win, with Flamini
setting up the equaliser from an offside position.


Afterwards Jewell claimed Dowd had made "a catalogue of
mistakes".


Jewell further berated Dowd by adding: "He has cost our team the
points - it could cost us 50 million.


"Referees just do not realise the significance of football
matches.


"I think some of them consider it to be more of a hobby and they
do not take it as seriously as we do as managers and players.


"I just do not understand where they are coming from."


Last month Jewell was handed a two-match touchline ban -
suspended for 12 months - and a 2,000 pounds (4000 dollars) fine
for his rant at Dowd on the pitch immediately after the final
whistle.

