

The heads of Mano River Union countries Guinea, Liberia and
Sierra Leone, flanked by the Ivorian president, on Monday opened
a summit in Conakry aimed at reanimating the regional group.


"This summit is taking place at a crucial moment for our common
organisation ... which has gone through a tumultuous period over
more than a decade," Guinean Prime Minister Lansana Kouyate said
as the summit opened.


Partaking in the opening ceremony were the presidents of the
three Mano River Union states: Lansana Conte of Guinea, Ellen
Johnson Sirleaf of Liberia and Ahmad Tejan Kabbah of Sierra
Leone, along with Ivorian President Laurent Gbagbo, who was
invited along as an "observer".


The sub-regional organisation is "today engaged in a re-
dynamisation process in order to push for the integrated
development of our countries. To this end we must urgently find
adequate solutions to the numerous challenges facing" the group,
Kouyate said.


Among the challenges facing the organisation are "price
consolidation, security and stability" across the three
countries.


The group also needs to focus on "the friendly resolution of
cross-border questions" and the "revitalisation of the Mano River
Union's secretariat by putting at its disposal resources that are
indispensable to its operations," Kouyate added, without
specifying the amount needed.


Liberia's Sirleaf also called for cross-border security, and free
circulation of goods and services within the union.


The summit continued behind closed doors Monday afternoon.

