

Thousands of workers downed tools Monday after the IG Metall
trade union called strikes to step up pressure for wage talks in
the electrical, engineering and metalworking sectors.


After an initial series of warning strikes Sunday, the movement
hit Germany's industrial heartland in the western state of North-
Rhine Westphalia.


About 900 workers walked off the nightshift at a DaimlerChrysler
plant in Duesseldorf, a union spokeswoman said.


Staff picketed Monday morning at a Siemens factor in Duisburg
while other protests were planned in Vreden, Bocholt, Krefeld and
Recklinghausen.


Around 300 staff stopped work at razor-maker Gillette in Berlin,
joined by 100 at fan manufacturer Mahle and 100 workers at auto
parts maker Faurecia.


In the southwestern state of Baden-Wuerttemberg, 800 striking
staff brought work at the DaimlerChrysler plant in Rastatt to a
halt.


IG Metall has been locked in talks with employers for several
weeks to hike salaries for the 3.4 million workers it represents
but the negotiations have made little headway.


The union is demanding a 6.5 percent salary increase while
management groups are broadly offering a 2.5 percent increase and
a 0.5 percent bonus hike.


IG Metall has threatened broad-based strikes from mid-May if
employers refuse to budge in the negotiations. A key fifth round
of wage talks is to start Thursday in Baden-Wuerttemberg that
could set the tone for a sector-wide agreement.


"We have high expectations," the IG Metall regional chief in
North Rhine Westphalia, Detlef Wetzel, said.


"If the other side does not budge soon we are ready for a fight."


The outcome of the IG Metall wage negotiations usually serves as
a benchmark for wage increases in other sectors.

