

US consumers limited spending growth in March amid a lingering
housing market slump and high gasoline prices, even as their
personal incomes remained robust, new government figures showed
Monday.


The Commerce Department said consumer spending rose just 0.3
percent in March, disappointing Wall Street analysts who had
expected spending to rise at least 0.5 percent.


The monthly snapshot on consumer activity is closely watched as
consumer spending accounts for some two-thirds of all US economic
activity.


Spending slowed from a revised 0.7-percent clip in the prior
month.


Personal incomes remained solid, however, rising 0.7 percent for
the second straight month, a couple of notches better than most
economists had anticipated.


The slowdown in consumer spending growth from April comes after
US economic activity slowed considerably during the first
quarter, weakening to its worst growth pace in four years.


The world's largest economy has slowed amid a nationwide housing
slump which has acted as a drag on economic activity.


The report also showed inflation, as measured by the personal
consumption expenditures price index, rose 0.4 percent in March
for the second straight month, bringing the year-over-year
increase to 2.4 percent.


Core inflation, which does not include volatile food and energy
prices and is viewed by the Fed as a better barometer of prices,
rose 0.1 percent in the month, in line with most forecasts. Such
a reading is well inside the Fed's comfort zone.


The central bank meets next meets on May 9 to debate US interest
rates which have been anchored at 5.25 percent since last June.


On a year-on-year basis, core inflation rose 2.1 percent.


Adjusted for inflation, real spending fell 0.2 percent while real
disposable incomes, which are inflation-adjusted and measure
income after taxes, rose 0.2 percent.


In February, both spending and income were revised from original
estimates that both gauges had risen 0.6 percent.

