

An Israeli court on Monday convicted nuclear whistleblower
Mordechai Vanunu, who once served 18 years in jail, of violating
a ban on leaving Israel and contacting foreign journalists.


The Jerusalem Magistrates Court found him guilty of violating the
bans imposed on him, by having contacts with foreign journalists
and trying to leave Jerusalem to visit Bethlehem, a justice
ministry spokesman said.


Vanunu, who was released from prison in 2004, is due to be
sentenced in two weeks, the spokesman said.


The former technician has made repeated appeals to the supreme
court to secure the lifting of the restrictions, which are
renewable every 12 months, on his freedom of movement, going
abroad and speaking to foreign journalists without permission.


The interior ministry opposes any concessions on the grounds he
could leak yet more secrets from his time as an employee at the
Dimona nuclear reactor should he be allowed to leave the country.


Vanunu served 18 years in jail for lifting the lid on the inner
workings of Israel's Dimona nuclear plant to Britain's Sunday
Times newspaper.


He became something of an international cause celebre during his
time in prison. At home, he is still widely reviled for
converting to Christianity shortly before he was kidnapped in
Italy and jailed in 1986 after being covertly shipped back to the
Jewish state.


Israel is widely believed to be the only nuclear power in the
Middle East with around 200 nuclear warheads but has a policy of
neither confirming nor denying its arsenal.


The Jewish state has refused to sign the nuclear Non-
Proliferation Treaty or allow international surveillance of
Dimona, in the southern Negev desert.

