

Bangladesh's military-backed government has moved to ban
university students and teachers from joining political parties
as part of efforts to clean up national politics, an interim
minister said Monday.


"The students are being used as the cadres of the political
parties. We don't want that," the government's interim Law
Minister Mainul Hosein told AFP.


"We don't want the students and teachers being the fronts for any
political parties. It affects the academic atmosphere. No country
on earth has the kinds of political activities on its campuses
like we see here in Bangladesh," the minister said.


His statement came a day after the law ministry sent a proposal
to the election commission to enact a law banning party-
affiliated politics in universities, colleges, factories and
banks.


Election Commissioner Shakhawat Hossain said the commission would
make a decision on the proposal soon.


"The government wants to ban party politics on campuses. We will
discuss the proposal very soon," he said.


Most political activities have been banned since January, when
the military- backed government came to power and the president
declared a state of emergency in the country to put an end to
months of unrest.


The new proposal would seek to impose a permanent ban on party-
affiliated politics by students and teachers, even after the
emergency is lifted.


Campus politics is a controversial issue in Bangladesh.


Students led a campaign to make Bengali a state language in 1952,
and after independence from Pakistan in 1971 they also led
protests against military dictatorships.

