

A detained judge who bore signs of being beaten in custody in
southern China was not killed but died of "adult sudden death
syndrome", according to an official probe quoted by state media
Monday.


Authorities conducted an investigation into the death of former
judge Li Chaoyang after he was found dead in a cell in early
April in the southwestern Guangxi region but found nothing
suspicious in his death, Xinhua news agency said.


"Li Chaoyang's sudden death conforms with adult sudden death
syndrome," Shi Saosen, chief investigator in the case, was quoted
by Xinhua as saying.


No explanation was given for "adult sudden death syndrome," but
Chinese authorities are often accused of covering abuse of
detainees in custody.


A judge in the Pingle county court in Guangxi, Li was detained on
March 23 for alleged bribe-taking. He was found unconscious in
his cell in the city of Guilin on April 2 and later died in
hospital, Xinhua said.


Relatives said Li's body was bruised, his face lacerated, and he
had a tooth missing. They demanded a probe into his death, Xinhua
said.


Photos were later posted online purportedly revealing the
injuries.


A joint investigation by law enforcement personnel from Guilin
city and the Guangxi regional government said the injuries were
sustained when Li fell during repeated escape attempts, adding he
later refused medical treatment.


Li died of "adult sudden death syndrome that might have been
sparked by an unstable state of mind, and abnormal sleeping and
eating habits," Xinhua quoted the investigation report as saying.


Judicial and law enforcement personnel in China often act in a
manner befitting the Wild West, and the abuse and even death of
prisoners is not uncommon.


Corrupt conduct by legal authorities is often cited as a key
cause of growing social unrest in China.

