

Spain's Princess Letizia and her husband, Crown Prince Felipe de
Bourbon, are to store stem cells from their new-born second
child, a baby girl named Sofia, to counter potential future
illness, media Monday quoted the prince as saying.


"We have kept the umbilical cord as we did with Leonor," the
prince said in allusion to a similar step the couple took with
first-born Princess Leonor, born in October 2005.


"It's something we have great confidence in and believe in. I
think science and medicine are moving forward by leaps and bounds
in this field and we have kept abreast of it," the prince said.


The royal couple sent the umbilical cord of Leonor to the United
States and have stored the cells at the Tucson-based Cord Blood
Registry (CBR) in Arizona.


In the case of Sofia, doctors removed two sachets of blood from
her umbilical cord. One "will go to a public bank and the other
to a private European one," Felipe said late Sunday.


According to January figures released by the Spanish ministry of
health 24,445 units of stem cells are stored in the country, 10
percent of global stocks.


Princess Letizia, 34, and Prince Felipe, 39, married in 2004 and
named Sofia after her grandmother, the queen.


The new arrival becomes third in line to the throne currently
occupied by King Juan Carlos, 69, after Prince Felipe and Leonor.


If the prince and princess were to give birth to a boy in the
future, however, he would be propelled to second-in-line after
Prince Felipe under the current Spanish constitution, ahead of
his older sisters.


The Socialist government of Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez
Zapatero has sought to change the constitution to allow royal
offspring to rise to the throne in order of their births and
irrespective of their gender, but has been subject to legislative
delays.

