

Jordanian censors halted printing of Monday's edition of the
weekly Al-Majd over an article detailing a plan for Palestinian
president Mahmud Abbas to dissolve the Islamist-dominated
parliament, its editor said.


"The Jordanian security services, which censor newspapers in
advance, intervened during the night to stop our print-run over a
detailed article about a plan to enable the Palestinian president
to see off the Hamas(-led) government," Fahd al-Rimawi told AFP.


He said the plan, drawn up by an Arab intelligence chief, foresaw
sacking the government of Hamas prime minister Ismail Haniya and
calling early parliamentary elections in the autumn.


He said it even detailed the number of security personnel who
would be deployed in the Gaza Strip and the West Bank for the
operation.


Abbas had threatened to call early elections for both parliament
and the presidency in the face of months of deadly factionional
fighting between his secular Fatah movement and the Islamists of
Hamas.


But in February he reached a power-sharing agreement in Saudi
Arabia with exiled Hamas leader Khaled Meshaal, and on March 17 a
new national unity government embracing both factions and
independents took power in place of the previous Hamas-dominated
administration.


This is not the first time that Al-Majd, which describes its
editorial position as "Arab nationalist," has had a run-in with
the Jordanian authorities.


Rimawi was detained for several days in May 2004 after an
editorial he signed was deemed damaging to Jordan's relations
with Saudi Arabia.


The weekly was then banned for two months before being allowed to
return to the news-stands.

