

The pro-Russian majority in Ukraine's parliament voted Monday for
snap parliamentary and presidential elections in the latest twist
to a long-running power struggle with pro-Western President
Viktor Yushchenko.


Lawmakers -- a majority of whom are loyal to Moscow-backed Prime
Minister Viktor Yanukovych -- voted in the non-binding resolution
for a joint election to take place by December 9 this year.


Yushchenko has repeatedly refused to hold early presidential
elections, while his April 2 decree disbanding parliament and
ordering early legislative elections has been rejected by
Yanukovych.


The two camps are now locked in a bitter power struggle that has
seen almost daily demonstrations by thousands of their
supporters.


The resolution said that a special committee would draw up a
draft amendment to the constitution by May 15 to prepare the
elections which should be held on the same day.


According to parliament speaker Olexander Moroz they could be
held in late November or early December.


Political analyst Andri Yermolayev of Kiev's Sofia Centre for
Social Research noted that the resolution was a mere
recommendation and would therefore not be binding.


"This is only a tactical game played by Parliament," to put
pressure on the president, said Volodymyr Fesenko, director at
the Penta Centre for Political Research.


Parliament's pro-Russian wing which has about 250 seats "is
unable to amend the constitution" because they would need 300 to
hold both elections simultaneously, Fesenko added.


On the other hand, the leader of the party close to the
president, Vyacheslav Kirilenko, argued in a statement that
parliament decisions were no longer valid as the chamber had been
dissolved by Yushchenko.

