

East Timor's President Xanana Gusmao is set to become the
chairman of a controversial new political party in a vote an
official said was due Monday.


Gusmao is the sole candidate for the chairmanship of the new
organisation, the National Congress of Reconstruction of Timor
(CNRT), which has already drawn criticism from a rival party.


The president would not be present for Monday's vote, but would
greet party members later, said senior CNRT official Virgilio
Smith.


"He is certain to arrive afterwards," he said.


Gusmao, a charismatic former guerrilla leader, is not seeking
reelection in the former Portuguese colony's ongoing presidential
election, which is to be decided by a runoff vote on May 9.


But he has said he wants to become prime minister, a more
powerful job in East Timor than the largely ceremonial role of
president, providing the new party does well enough in a
parliamentary election due in June.


East Timor's ruling Fretilin party, the most powerful political
force in the troubled and impoverished country, has already
attacked CNRT.


The new party's initials, which are based on the Portuguese
version of its name, are the same as a now disbanded pro-
independence movement active during East Timor's occupation by
Indonesia.


Mari Alkatiri, the Secretary General of Fretilin, has said the
use of the initials was "cynical" and "opportunistic" and has
threatened legal action.


The May 9 presidential runoff pits Prime Minister Jose Ramos-
Horta against Fretilin's candidate Francisco Guterres.


If Ramos-Horta wins and Gusmao achieves his goal of becoming
premier, they would end up swapping their current jobs.


The presidential election is East Timor's first since it achieved
independence in 2002, after 24 years of occupation by Indonesia
and a period of UN stewardship.


Gusmao, feted by many East Timorese for taking up arms against
the occupying Indonesian forces, ran as an independent in a
presidential poll prior to independence.

