

The euro eased on Monday from its historic high against the
dollar ahead of key inflation data, while the Turkish lira
tumbled due to political turmoil in Ankara, dealers said.


The euro fell to 1.3599 dollars in early European trade, from
1.3650 dollars in New York late on Friday. The dollar stood at
119.67 yen, compared with 119.59 on Friday.


Dealers said the foreign exchange market was taking a breather
after the euro soared to an all-time high of 1.3682 dollars on
Friday following news that the US economy expanded at its slowest
pace in four years in the first quarter.


Business was moderate, with markets in Japan closed for a public
holiday Monday.


This week's release of other key US data including March core
inflation figures later Monday, and April manufacturing will give
further leads on the state of the world's biggest economy,
dealers said.


If the US figures come in below expectations, confirming the US
economy is slowing, then the dollar is set for further declines,
dealers said.


"Data releases this week will provide a key test for the dollar,
especially given the prospects for another batch of soft figures
over coming days," said Calyon analyst Mitul Kotecha.


He added: "If there is a single release that could prompt
euro/dollar to sustain a break higher then a disappointing jobs
report expected on Friday could be the trigger for the move."


Meanwhile, the Turkish lira shed about 4.0 percent in value
against both the euro and the dollar in Monday morning trade
after a wild weekend that saw Turkey plunged into a political
crisis following elections turmoil.


As calls for calm mounted, Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul, a
former Islamist and the sole candidate in the race to become
president, has ruled out withdrawing his bid, defying a threat by
the army to intervene.


"Gul has said he will remain the AKP's presidential candidate,"
said Commerzbank analyst Gavin Friend.


"Hence, the lira is likely to remain under pressure (against the
dollar) targeting 1.40 Turkish lira."


In Monday trading, the euro changed hands at 1.3599 dollars,
against 1.3650 dollars late Friday, 162.67 yen (163.29), 0.6835
pounds (0.6833) and 1.6448 Swiss francs (1.6455).


The dollar stood at 119.67 yen (119.59) and 1.2094 Swiss francs
(1.2055).


The pound was being traded at 1.9897 dollars (1.9974).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold firmed to 677.65
dollars per ounce, from 677.50 dollars late on Friday.

