

At least 17 people were killed in attacks across Iraq on Monday
as insurgents continued to target civilians and police in the
country's chaotic capital.


In Baghdad, a suicide bomber blew up a vehicle outside a police
headquarters in a western district, killing five people and
wounding 12, a security official said.


The Iraqi police have come under heavy fire in recent months as
they have struggled to clamp down on the city's daily mayhem as
part of a 10-week-old security plan.


Elsewhere in the capital, a former brigadier general in Saddam
Hussein's army was shot dead in the volatile Dura neighborhood,
and three civilians were killed in two separate roadside
bombings.


The two blasts left 10 people wounded, security and medical
sources said.


At least one person was killed and six wounded in a car bombing
in the southwestern neighbourhood of al-Bayaa, the site of
several recent attacks.


Another person was killed and nine wounded when three mortar
rounds slammed into the northeastern al-Shaab neighbourhood.


The bodies of another three people killed in a gunfight in the
capital were brought to Al-Yarmuk hospital in west Baghdad, the
hospital said.


Further south, gunmen ambushed a checkpoint outside the city of
Kut, killing two policemen before fleeing, police Lieutenant Naim
Hassan said.


Earlier in the day, authorities found six corpses, two of them
decapitated, in an area north of the city.


In the northern city of Mosul, authorities arrested 61 suspected
militants following an overnight shootout at a police station.


"A number of gunmen attacked Al-Waqqas police station in western
Mosul prompting the police to counterattack and kill four
gunmen," said police Colonel Mohammed al-Waggaa.


A remotely detonated car bomb exploded near some reinforcements
who were racing to the scene, killing one policeman and wounding
two.


Authorities detained an additional 77 suspected militants in
other parts of the country.

