

North Korea proposes to withdraw its previously frozen funds from
a Macau bank through its accounts at financial institutions in
Russia and Italy, Japanese press reports said Monday.


Delays in the transfer of the funds have hampered progress in
six-nation talks involving the two Koreas, China, Japan, Russia
and the United States aimed at ending North Korea's nuclear
ambitions.


The funds, worth 25 million dollars, have not yet been
transferred from Banco Delta Asia (BDA) to North Korea,
reportedly due to problems finding a bank willing to handle the
cash transfer.


The North Korean proposal was made in talks with Macau
authorities on Saturday, China's former chief delegate to six-
nation talks Wu Dawei told a group of Japanese lawmakers visiting
Beijing on Sunday, according to the reports.


North Korea said its BDA funds could be transferred in US dollars
or euros, the reports said.


Wu told the Japanese visitors the BDA problem was "not a
political issue at all but a simple technical issue which was no
cause for concern," the reports said.


But he could not say how many days it might take to clear up the
matter.


Under a landmark February 13 agreement, North Korea should have
shut down its Yongbyon nuclear reactor in the presence of UN
inspectors as the first step in scrapping its nuclear programmes
by April 14.


But the deadline slipped by due to an unresolved dispute over the
BDA funds, frozen since 2005 at US instigation over allegations
of money laundering and counterfeiting.


US authorities last month dropped the sanctions and said it was
up to the Macau authorities to release the cash.


Pyongyang has refused to act until it gets the money back.

