

Spanish Foreign Minister Miguel Angel Moratinos said he was
expecting a democratic outcome in Turkey's contentious
presidential elections during an official visit to Cyprus on
Monday.


"I was in contact with my former colleague Abdullah Gul. Now we
have to wait to see what happens with the developments,"
Moratinos told reporters in Nicosia after talks with his Cypriot
counterpart George Lillikas.


"But I think in all situations democracy is the winner so we hope
that, as always, the Turkish people select and elect the people
they want and soon we will be ready to work when they finalize
this period," he added.


Turkey's constitutional court is expected to review Monday the
legitimacy of a presidential vote that has sparked a political
crisis in the Muslim majority but secular country.


More than one million people rallied in Istanbul on Sunday in
support of secularism and to voice their opposition to sole
presidential candidate, outgoing Foreign Minister Gul whose
Islamist background they fear.


The Turkish army, which has toppled four governments in as many
decades, warned that it was determined to take action to protect
the secular order if the need arose.


The Council of Europe, of which Turkey is a member, roundly
condemned the army's threat as a "deliberate attempt" to
influence the election.


Gul, 56, narrowly missed becoming head of state during a vote
last week. A second round is scheduled for Wednesday.


During his Cyprus visit, Moratinos signed two agreements, one
strengthening "very good" relations with the fellow EU state and
the other aimed at combating organised crime by establishing a
framework to exchange intelligence.

