

Russian protestors outside the Estonian embassy in Moscow,
accused by Tallinn of practising "psycho-terror", vowed Monday to
keep up their demonstration for more than another week.


About 100 youths from the Kremlin-friendly organisations Young
Guard and Ours chanted anti-Estonian government slogans outside
the building and pointed the barrel of a green inflatable tank at
it.


"Estonia -- the shame of Europe," they shouted against a
background of blaring World War II-era Soviet patriotic songs.


The approximately 20 police visible showed no sign of
intervening.


The protest began last week when Estonian authorities removed a
controversial Soviet war memorial from central Tallinn for
relocation at a military cemetery.


Kirill Shchitov, from Young Guard, said the Moscow protest will
continue around the clock "until May 9 at least. The main message
of our action is: return the monument to its place and stop
digging up graves".


Estonians see the statue as a reminder of 50 years of Soviet
occupation following World War II, while Russia says the statue,
which is believed to shelter the bones of several Red Army
soldiers, should stay where it is.


A tent at the protest site contained food and hot tea. Protestors
had also erected a huge photograph of the controversial monument.


"All that's happening in Estonia is desecration... Our
grandfathers fought and they are destroying their monument. This
is not right and we can't just look on," said activist Lyuda
Lavrova, 18.


Estonia's President Toomas Hendrik Ilves described the embassy
protest as "psycho-terror".


"Nearly two dozen citizens of Estonia are in the embassy
building, as if taken hostage. Other citizens of Estonia are
blocked from entering the embassy," he said.


Estonian Foreign Minister Urmas Paet said his country would press
the European Union, of which it is a member, to intervene.

