

Israel's latest war report has parallels with a similar
commission published after the 1973 Yom Kippur war -- a conflict
that ultimately forced the country's only woman prime minister to
resign.


Retired judge Eliahu Winograd is on Monday scheduled to submit to
Prime Minister Ehud Olmert, and then to the public, partial
findings from a government commission ordered into last year's
34-day war in Lebanon.


The report is widely expected to increase the pressure on Olmert
who is already saddled with the worst approval ratings in Israeli
history, his government weakened by a series of sex and
corruption scandals.


On November 21, 1973 a state commission was ordered to
investigate mistakes made by the army and government ahead of a
joint Egyptian-Syrian offensive that caught Israel off guard on
the holiest day of the Jewish calendar.


Its chairman, judge Shimon Agranat, was appointed by the supreme
court rather than personally selected by the premier, as Olmert
did for the Winograd Commission.


Agranat's commission spoke to hundreds of witnesses and submitted
a partial 400-page report on April 1, 1974.


It recommended that chief of staff General David Elazar and the
head of military intelligence, General Eliyahu Zaira, resign.


But the Agranat commission largely vindicated prime minister
Golda Meir and defence minister Moshe Dayan.


Instead, public pressure and protests from thousands of Israelis
saw Meir resign in June, allowing Yitzhak Rabin to form his first
cabinet.


The final 1,500-page Agranat Commission was published on January
30, 1975. Two years later, Menachem Begin won an election and the
right-wing Likud party became the first party in Israeli history
other than Labour to form a cabinet.

