

Delta Air Lines said Monday it has emerged from bankruptcy
protection after a 19-month reorganization to help get past the
long crisis for the US airline industry.


"This is a great day in Delta's history -- a day that would not
have been possible without the hard work and sacrifice of Delta
people around the world," said Delta chief executive Gerald
Grinstein.


"Through our restructuring we have successfully repaired our
balance sheet, improved the customer experience, expanded our
international route system and built a platform for future
success. Delta is now a fierce competitor in a tough industry and
we are confident that we will reclaim our rightful place as an
industry leader."


The third-largest US carrier exited Chapter 11 bankruptcy Monday
after a judge last week approved the final details of
reorganization.


Delta and Northwest Airlines filed for creditor protection on the
same day in September 2005, which at the time left four of the
top six carriers in bankruptcy.


Since that time, the remaining carriers, with the exception of
Northwest, have emerged from court supervision and the financial
picture of the industry has markedly improved.


Delta lost 6.2 billion dollars in 2006 amid a hefty 5.4-billion
charge for reorganization.


The carrier posted a much narrower 130-million dollar loss in the
first quarter of 2007 but sees its financial picture improving
after major cost-cutting efforts.


The US airline industry has been struggling with its worst-ever
crisis since the September 11, 2001 attacks triggered a slump in
air travel, and carriers were hit with record-high fuel prices.

