

Bosnian Serbs accused Croatia on Tuesday of failing to bring to
justice those responsible for alleged war crimes against ethnic
Serbs during military operations to recapture Serb rebel-held
areas in 1995.


"It is intolerable that before the UN war crimes court or local
courts not a single executor or those who ordered (the operation)
was held responsible for this war crime," Bosnian Serb President
Milan Jelic said in a statement.


The statement was issued ahead of the 12th anniversary of the
operation during which Croatia liberated part of its eastern
Slavonia region held by Serb rebels. The 30-hour-long operation
was launched on May 1.


According to Serb figures some 15,000 ethnic Serbs were expelled
and 283  killed during the operation, including 57 women and nine
children.


"Ignoring this war crime by Croatian authorities... will not
contribute to creation of trust, strengthening of ties between
people and... the return of ethnic Serbs to Croatia," Jelic said.


Only three months after the operation in August 1995, Croatia
launched another military offensive to liberate the key rebel-
held region, which effectively ended the 1991-1995 war.


Croatia's proclamation of independence from the former Yugoslavia
sparked the war with rebel Serbs who opposed the move.


During the war, which claimed some 20,000 lives, the rebels
occupied almost one- third of Croatia's territory chasing out the
local Croatian and other non-Serb population.


Some 280,000 Serbs fled Croatia during and after the war, while
only half of them have returned, according to United Nations
figures.


Over 20,000 of them are still refugees in the Bosnian Serb entity
of Republika Srpska.

