

Hundreds of angry Palestinian teachers demanding full pay after
more than a year of partial salaries tried to storm the
Palestinian government headquarters in the West Bank on Monday.


The teachers attempted to force their way past a barrier guarding
the entrance to a government offices' building but were repelled
by security forces, an AFP photographer said in the West Bank
political capital of Ramallah.


Teachers in the occupied West Bank went on strike Monday to
demand full salaries and the payment of several months'
outstanding back pay.


Addressing the demonstrators, Palestinian deputy prime minister
Azzam al-Ahmed said a Western economic boycott, which has
depleted government funds, could bring down the current coalition
government.


"The national unity government won't even last three months
unless the economic and diplomatic boycott imposed on the
Palestinian people is lifted," Ahmed told the crowd.


At the start of the current academic year, teachers went on
strike for more than two months until the government agreed to
pay teachers partial salaries, with the remainder coming in
future installments.


Teachers have continued to receive only partial salaries, largely
thanks to donations from gas-rich Qatar.


Numerous financial and diplomatic restrictions continue to saddle
the Palestinian Authority despite the formation of a unity
government in March between the Islamists of Hamas and president
Mahmud Abbas's Fatah party.


A first Hamas-run government was paralysed by the Western boycott
and economic sanctions given its refusal to recognise Israel's
right to exist, renounce violence and agree to abide by past
peace agreements.

