

Estonian authorities have uncovered the coffins of 12 Soviet
soldiers buried under a war memorial that was controversially
moved last week, and opened six to find remains inside, a
forensic scientist said Monday.


"We have found six skeletons and remains so far. Our plan is to
leave these remains where they are lying to allow us to complete
work and documentation at the site," Ullar Lanno, head of the
Estonian Forensic Medical Bureau, told reporters.


The coffins, buried towards the end of World War II, were in two
nine-metre (30 feet) long rows of six.


The first row had been opened and work was continuing to access
the second row, he said.


"We can see the ends of the coffins in the second row, but we
can't open them. It's quite heavy work to remove the 1.3 metres
of earth that they were buried under," Lanno said.


Excavation work had begun Saturday at the site in central Tallinn
from where the monument to Red Army soldiers who fought in World
War II was moved last week.


One Russian man was killed and more than 150 people injured,
including 29 police, in two nights of rioting in Tallinn last
Thursday and Friday after the monument was moved.


The memorial, a statue called the Bronze Soldier, will be
reinstalled later Monday at a military cemetery in Tallinn, the
defence ministry has said.


Estonia will inform relatives if any of the remains are
positively identified, ministry spokesman Madis Mikko said.


"If it is possible to identify a soldier by name, naturally we
will give this information to relatives," he said.


"But the list of names and documents we have are not very clear
because when these soldiers were buried, it was not registered by
the Geneva Convention."


Experts will conduct DNA testing and continue to look for
personal effects at the site to try to determine who the soldiers
are, Lanno said.


Remains which cannot be identified will be reburied in the
military cemetery where the Bronze Soldier will be re-erected, he
said.

