

China and Russia are among the worst offenders in failing to
crack down on rampant piracy of US patents and copyrights, an
annual government report said Monday.


The annual scorecard known as the Special 301 report for the
section of US law on which it is based, voiced concern about
continuing and well-established counterfeiting industries in both
countries.


"High levels of copyright piracy and trademark counterfeiting
remain of concern," the report said of China, while also chiding
Russian authorities on protection of on intellectual property
rights (IPR).


"Large-scale production and distribution of IP-infringing optical
media and minimally restrained Internet piracy are among major
problems that require more enforcement action," the scorecard,
produced by the US Trade Representative's office (USTR) said.


The report was issued several weeks after Washington formally
lodged a complaint on Chinese copyright piracy before the World
Trade Organization, even as Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson has
said he wants to keep the US economic relationship with China on
an "even keel."


US officials and business executives have long complained about
foreign counterfeiting of American goods, which many claim is
particularly rampant in China and Russia.


However, six major US movie studios won a Chinese lawsuit earlier
this month against a Beijing company for selling counterfeit DVDs
of their films amid signs that the Chinese authorities are
clamping down on such activities.


Despite its complaints, the report said that there had been
"evidence" of late of improving IPR oversight in both countries.


The report cited a total of 43 countries for failing to provide
adequate protection, but the 12 worst were noted on a "priority
watch list." In addition to China and Russia, the 10 countries
named in this year's report were Argentina, Chile, Egypt, India,
Israel, Lebanon, Thailand, Turkey, Ukraine, and Venezuela.

