

Europe's main stock markets rose on Monday as a raft of merger
and acquisition stories fuelled positive sentiment, but equities
slumped in Istanbul amid political turmoil, dealers said.


In early afternoon deals, London's FTSE 100 index of leading
shares rose 0.63 percent to 6,459.40 points, Frankfurt's DAX 30
added 0.52 percent to 7,416.52 and the Paris CAC 40 gained 0.41
percent to 5,955.34.


In Madrid, the Ibex 35 showed a gain of 0.49 percent at 14,474.10
points, while Milan's SP/Mib index rose 0.36 percent to 43,800.


The euro stood at 1.3614 dollars.


In Wall Street trade on Friday, investors had shaken off jitters
sparked by weak economic growth data and ended mixed -- but the
blue-chip Dow Jones index eked out another all-time high.


Elsewhere on Monday, the Istanbul stock market plunged 8.0
percent after a wild weekend that saw Turkey plunged into a
political crisis following turmoil over presidential elections.


The leading index on the Turkish stock exchange, which groups the
100 biggest companies, showed a loss of 6.23 percent in midday
trading.


In London, Cable and Wireless saw its shares surge 4.19 percent
to 188.8 pence amid a media report that the telecommunications
operator was mulling a break-up of its British and international
businesses.


In Paris, shares in French energy group Suez soared 1.50 percent
to 41.98 euros after receiving a broker upgrade from Citigroup,
who argued that the stock did not reflect the benefits of a
merger with Gaz de France.


Meanwhile, shares in Spanish telecommunications group Telefonica
shot higher after a weekend announcement that it was to take a
10-percent stake in Telecom Italia.


Telefonica stock gained 0.60 percent to 16.65 euros in Madrid,
while Telecom Italia shares reversed initial gains, falling 0.79
percent to 2.25 euros.


In US deals before the weekend, the benchmark Dow Jones
Industrial Average edged up 0.12 percent to close at 13,120.94
points, notching a third consecutive record closing high.


The tech-heavy Nasdaq composite gained 0.11 percent to 2,557.21
while the broad- market Standard and Poor's 500 index shed a
fractional 0.01 percent to 1,494.07 points.


In Asia on Monday, Hong Kong's key Hang Seng index closed down
1.01 percent at 20,318.98 points on worries China may announce
further credit-tightening measures, dealers said. Tokyo was
closed for a public holiday.

