

Renegade Somali leaders on Monday vowed deeper insurgency against
government- backed Ethiopian troops despite retreating in recent
clashes in Mogadishu, some of the deadliest in the city's
history.


Top Islamist leader Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed and former
parliament speaker Sheikh Sharif Hassan Aden said the rebel
fighters, who melted away last week in the face of an Ethiopian
offensive, had changed tactics in the bloody contest for
Mogadishu.


"The resistance fighters are changing their strategy from face-
to-face conflict to hit-and-run attacks," the leaders said in a
statement released in the Eritrean capital.


"The Somali resistance groups have done a good job in defence
against the invasion (by) Ethiopia, causing heavy Ethiopian
casualties."


Ethiopian forces have been battling Islamist fighters and clan
militia since the beginning of the year when they backed Somali
government soldiers to oust an Islamist movement from the capital
and south and central Somalia.


The violence, which died down last Thursday, has killed hundreds
in recent weeks and forced up to 400,000 to flee since the start
of February, according to the United Nations.


"The resistance will never give up its mission to fight the
invading troops," the leaders warned Monday. "We urge the Somali
people never to kneel down in front of the Ethiopians."


They also called for resistance against some 1,500 African Union
peacekeepers already deployed in Somalia, and criticised the
international community for failing to speak out about the
violence.


Somalia has been without an effective government since the 1991
ouster of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre sparked a bloody power
struggle.

