

US President George W. Bush views Israeli Prime Minister Ehud
Olmert as "essential" to Middle East peace efforts, the White
House said Monday as Olmert faced tough criticism over the
Lebanon war.


Bush "works very closely with prime minister Olmert and thinks
that he's essential in working toward a two-state solution. The
president remains committed to it," said spokesman Tony Snow.


Snow declined to comment on a newly released Israeli government
report that blamed Olmert, Defense Minister Amir Peretz and
former army chief Dan Halutz for the "serious failure" of on last
summer's 34-day war.


"We're not going to comment on, obviously, internal
investigations within the Israeli government," the spokesman
said.


Retired Israeli judge Eliahu Winograd, in presenting the interim
findings into the handling of the war, declared that: "The
responsibility is on the prime minister, the defense minister and
chief of staff."


Decisions and actions by the three "add up to a serious failure
in exercising judgment, responsibility and prudence," he said.


The report said that Olmert made decisions hastily and without
proper preparations.


"The prime minister made up his mind hastily, despite the fact
that no detailed military plan was submitted to him and without
asking for one.


"He made his decisions without systematic consultation with
others, especially outside the IDF (Israeli Defense Forces),
despite not having experience in external-political and military
affairs.


"In addition, he did not adequately consider political and
professional reservations presented to him before the fateful
decisions of July 12th" when Hezbollah launched the deadly cross-
border raid in which it seized two Israeli soldiers, sparking the
war.


"The prime minister is responsible for the fact that the goals of
the campaign were not set out clearly and carefully... He made a
personal contribution to the fact that the declared goals were
over-ambitious and not feasible."

