

Kosovo Prime Minister Agim Ceku said he expects his disputed
province to declare independence from Serbia by the end of May,
in a New York Times interview published Monday.


Ceku said there was strong international support for the move
even though its final status has yet to be agreed by the UN
Security Council and Russia has threatened to veto a current
plan.


"I expect Kosovo to be able to declare its independence by the
end of May," Ceku told the paper.


"There is a very strong US commitment to do this," he said,
adding that, "It wants to finish the job. Britain's (prime
minister) Tony Blair is on board, too."


The ethnic Albanian dominated province in southern Serbia has
been under UN administration since mid-1999, after NATO bombing
helped to drive out Serbian forces who were waging a brutal
crackdown against Albanians.


Its future status is expected finally to be determined in coming
weeks as the UN Security Council begins a debate on UN special
envoy Martti Ahtisaari's plan to hand increasingly impatient
ethnic Albanians their wish for statehood.


The Ahtisaari proposals, drafted after he led a year of mostly
fruitless talks between Belgrade and Pristina, would grant Kosovo
internationally supervised independence, including its own
constitution, flag and anthem.


The proposal has the backing of the United States, the European
Union, and leaders of ethnic Albanians, who comprise around 90
percent of Kosovo's two million inhabitants


However Serbia, which sees the province as its historic heartland
and has won support from Russia, has rejected his proposal as a
violation of its territorial integrity.

