

Uzbekistan and China have signed an agreement regarding the
constructing and exploitation of a 530-kilometer (xxx mile) long
gas pipeline, Uzbek media reports said Monday.


Another agreement on a joint gas exploration project in the
eastern Namangan province was also inked between Uzbekistan's
state-owned gas company Uzbekneftegaz and the Chinese national
oil and gas corporation, the state news agency UzA reported,
without giving further details.


The agreements were reached during meetings with a visiting
Chinese delegation headed by Chinese development and reform
minister Ma Kai, who met Uzbek President Islam Karimov and other
government officials Monday, the reports said.


Details such as the cost of the construction and when it will
start were not given.


However, the pro-government website www.press-uz.info, which
reported the capacity of the proposed pipeline at 30 billion
cubic metres of gas annually, added that the construction will
also include two compressor stations.


Energy hungry China has actively courted the region's resource
rich nations over the last few years as it seeks power for its
rapidly developing economy.


Uzbekistan is the world's 13th largest natural gas producer,
according to statistics from the energy giant BP, but most of its
production is taken up by domestic consumption.


China has become one of Uzbekistan's biggest trading partners and
foreign investors in recent years.


China's total investment plan in Uzbekistan is about two billion
dollars with some 600 million of that going to the oil and gas
sector, the reports said.

