

Iran on Monday warned tourists and other foreigners visiting the
country to obey its Islamic dress code in line with a nationwide
crackdown against slack dressing, the ISNA news agency reported.


"We have asked travel agencies to warn tourists and to explain
the laws of this country," said Tehran's deputy chief of police,
Hossein Sajedi-Nia.


Iran has handed out more than 10,000 warnings over the past 10
days to women deemed to have infringed the dress code in the
Islamic republic, and dozens of others have been briefly detained
at police stations.


Sajedi-Nia indicated there was no chance of a let-up in the
crackdown, a regular pre-summer measure being pursued with extra
vigour this year, saying that from next week "plain clothes
police will go into action."


Women must cover their heads and conceal their curves in public
in Iran. The law also applies to members of non-Muslim minorities
and all visiting foreigners.


Thousands of tourists visit Iran every year to enjoy its ancient
heritage and mountain scenery, although numbers are kept down by
visa regulations and regional tensions affecting tourism
throughout the region.


Iran is seeking to relax visa rules and improve its accommodation
facilities in a bid to massively boost the numbers of annual
visitors.


The head of Iran's police force, Esmaeel Ahmadi-Moghadam, said
that the crackdown on clothing was not a temporary measure and
would continue for the sake of personal security for women.


"At the moment, women are unable to go in peace to public baths,
swimming pools or hotels," he said, referring to an acknowledged
problem in Iran where women are often secretly filmed and
photographed without their knowledge.

