

The US State Department played down concerns Monday over a
possible intervention by Turkey's powerful military to prevent
the Islamic-rooted governing party from gaining control of the
nation's presidency.


"We have confidence in Turkey's democracy," spokesman Sean
McCormack said when asked about a statement issued by the Turkish
army late Friday warning that it was ready to act to preserve the
country's secular identity.


The army was reacting to an inconclusive first round of voting in
parliament to elect a new president, with Foreign Minister
Abdullah Gul of the ruling Justice and Development Party the sole
candidate.


The secular opposition boycotted the vote and has challenged the
result in the country's Constitutional Court, which is due to
rule later this week.


Turkey's military, which sees itself as guarantor of Turkish
secularism,  has toppled four governments since 1960, most
recently forcing out the country's first Islamist prime minister,
Necmettin Erbakan, in 1997.


McCormack declined to comment on the presidential election
itself, but he voiced optimism that the army -- closely tied to
the US military as a fellow NATO member -- would stay out of the
political crisis.


"We have confidence in Turkey's democratic institutions and
Turkey's constitutional processes to work out any questions that
may surround the election of the next Turkish president," he
said.


The US spokesman also expressed praise for Gul's work as foreign
minister, despite recent bilateral tensions caused by Turkish
frustration over Washington's failure to curb the activities of
separatist Turkish Kurds operating from bases in northern Iraq.


"We've have a very good working relationship with him," McCormack
said.

