

Asian stocks rallied sharply higher Monday on improved prospects
for the United States economy following the release of better
than expected US jobs data.


The data, released Friday, showed an acceleration in US
employment growth for March resulted in 180,000 new jobs which
compared with an expected rise of 135,000 by Wall Street
investors.


This calmed the latest bouts of anxiety over the US, Asia's main
export market, resulting in Tokyo surging 1.48 percent to a six
week high and Seoul rising 1.14 percent for a best ever finish.


Singapore also a struck a record close after rising 1.62 percent,
Kuala Lumpur surged 1.52 percent, Taipei gained 0.65 percent, and
Jakarta was back near record territory with a rise of 0.96
percent.


Shanghai stood out by soaring 2.27 percent further into the
record books and Mumbai was up 2.5 percent, continuing its
recovery from a sharp sell-off early last week.


However, Bangkok bucked the trend and fell 0.57 percent with
investors squaring off positions ahead of a policy meeting by the
central bank.


Hong Kong, Sydney, Wellington and Manila remained closed for
Easter.


TOKYO: Share prices closed up 1.48 percent at a near six-week
high after strong US jobs data calmed jitters over the US economy
and pushed down the yen in a boost for exporters.


The Nikkei-225 index rose 258.98 points to 17,743.76. Volume rose
to 1.91 million shares from 1.78 million on Friday.


A weaker yen created optimism about the earnings of Japanese
exporters while the unexpectedly strong US employment data for
last month reduced anxiety about the state of the US economy,
dealers said.


"Export-oriented shares, especially those in the precision
equipment and auto sectors, reacted favorably to the weaker yen,"
said Hiroyuki Fukunaga, a strategist at Rakuten Securities.


"If these heavyweights in the Nikkei index overcome their recent
weakness and attract further buying, and if Wall Street continues
to perform encouragingly, the Nikkei may climb back towards
18,300 points in the coming weeks," he said.


The Labor Department in Washington said last Friday that the US
economy added 180,000 jobs in March, which was much stronger that
the gain of 135,000 expected on Wall Street.


Isuzu Motors rose 23 yen to 648.


HONG KONG: Closed.


SEOUL: Share prices rose 1.14 percent on foreign and retail
support, following stronger-than-expected US job data, which
pushed the main index to a record close.


Dealers said broad-based buying offset institutional profit-
taking ahead of the impending release of corporate earnings and
this helped the benchmark through the critical 1,500 point mark.


Strong gains in other major Asian markets added to the upward
momentum with builders, lenders and shipbuilders among the stocks
most sought.


The KOSPI index closed up 16.91 points at 1,501.06. Volume was
384 million shares worth 4.1 trillion won (4.36 billion dollars).


"The positive US job data allayed concerns over the US economy,
specifically private consumption. That lifted Asian markets
today, including the KOSPI, which are heavily dependent on
exports (to the US )," said Daewoo Securities analyst Lee Kun-
Ung.


POSCO rose 2,500 won to 394,000.


TAIPEI: Share prices closed 0.65 percent higher on follow-through
interest after last week's gains, with sentiment supported by
firmer regional markets and better-than-expected jobs data in the
US.


Dealers said aggressive purchases by foreign investors last
Wednesday before a four-day break also encouraged position-
building.


The weighted index closed up 51.95 points at 8,056.56 on turnover
of 119.04 billion Taiwan dollars (3.60 billion US).


Stanley Hsu, a manager at First Taisec Securities, attributed
Monday's gains to positive sentiment arising from the market's
successful breaching of the 8,000 points level in the previous
session.


"The market's success in challenging the 8,000 points attracted
further buying in stocks today," he said.


Investors with low holdings were eager to build up positions,
particularly in raw materials-related stocks, he said.


High Tech Computer rose 12.00 to 518.00.


SHANGHAI: Share prices closed up 2.27 percent at a fresh record
high on sustained cash inflow and upbeat expectations for first-
quarter results.


Dealers said steelmakers and financial stocks gained ground as
investors believe the upward trend would continue.


"The strong market gains recorded over the past three weeks are
attracting more and more investors to stocks, and the Shanghai
Composite will likely reach 3,500 points soon if no major
negative news emerges," said Wang Sai, an analyst at Wanguo
Consulting.


The Shanghai Composite Index closed up 75.37 points at 3,398.95
on turnover of 139.94 billion yuan (18.10 billion US dollars).


Analysts said expectations of strong first-quarter results could
help maintain upward momentum.


"The upward trend will be maintained at least until the end of
April when all the listed firms finish issuing their first-
quarter results, which will likely show average year-on-year
earnings growth of 30 percent to 40 percent," Wang Jun, an
analyst at Merchants Securities, said.


Steelmakers were buoyed by hopes of significant earnings for the
year.


Bengang Steel Plates was up its 10 percent daily limit at 10.04
yuan.


SYDNEY: Closed.


SINGAPORE: Share prices finished at a new record high, touching
3,400 points for the first time, as sentiment was boosted by
stronger-than-expected US employment data.


It was the third consecutive session the benchmark had hit record
peaks.


The Straits Times Index surged 54.14 points to 3,400.00. Volume
was 2.79 billion shares worth 1.93 billion billion Singapore
dollars (1.28 billion US).


"Market sentiment will remain bullish, riding on the optimism
from regional bourses as well as the encouraging US job growth
figures," Westcomb Securities said in a research note.


"Penny stocks and the merger and acquisition theme are also
likely to continue to spur investor interest going forward."


CIMB-GK Research said the STI may test the 3,400-3,460 points
level this week.


DBS Group Holdings gained 0.20 to 22.50.


KUALA LUMPUR: Share prices closed 1.52 percent higher in line
with regional gains as institutional buyers focused on oil and
gas and palm oil firms.


The composite index gained 19.44 points to 1,298.36. Volume
traded was 2.10 billion shares worth 2.815 billion ringgit (815.9
million dollars).


"The local bourse is playing catch-up with its regional peers
which have already recovered from the end-February sell-off,"
said a fund manager from a local asset management.


"We have seen some foreign buying in today's trading," he added.


Given that the benchmark KLCI has now breached its strong
resistance level of 1,285 points, the next resistance is seen at
1,332 points, which is an "achievable" target, he said.


Lee Cheng Hooi, technical analyst at MIMB Research, said
sentiment was partly bolstered by news related to an
infrastructure project in the oil and gas sector worth about 50
billion ringgit.


Kuala Lumpur Kepong rose 0.40 ringgit to 12.10.


BANGKOK: Share prices closed 0.57 percent lower, against sharp
gains in regional stocks, with thin volume traded as European and
some Asian markets closed for Easter holidays.


Dealers said energy-linked shares dropped on falling oil prices
while investors dumped banking and property stocks ahead of the
central bank's rate-setting committee meeting later in the week.


The composite index shed 3.92 points to 688.55 on turnover of one
billion shares worth 4.8 billion baht (137 million dollars).


Kanang Duangmanee, a senior economist at Kasikorn Research
Centre, said the volume was very thin as investors awaited the
Bank of Thailand meeting on Wednesday, amid strong expectations
for an interest rate cut.


The market expects policymakers to slash rates to 4.00 percent
from the current 4.50 percent, in the third rate cut this year.


"Banking and property shares which were bought last week were
sold off, while construction and energy stocks also dropped," she
said.


Bangkok Bank lost 1.00 to 112.00.


JAKARTA: Share prices rose 0.96 percent, with gains in Asian
markets helping to boost sentiment and pushing the benchmark back
near record territory.


The composite index closed up 18.124 points at 1,913.735, on
volume 1.8 billion shares worth 2.09 trillion rupiah (229.79
million dollars).


"I think the rally in regional markets was the key to the rebound
here," said Maxi Liesyaputra, an analyst with Sucorinvest
Securities.


Among key gainers was index heavyweight Telkom. It closed up 100
rupiah at 10,200, while rival Indosat was unchanged at 6,300.


MANILA: Closed.


WELLINGTON: Closed.


MUMBAI: Share prices surged 2.5 percent, a fourth straight day of
gains on sustained fund buying in index and mid-cap stocks.


Dealers said the market was focused on earnings for the January-
March quarter, especially from software exporter Infosys
Technologies which kicks off tech company earnings on April 13.


The 30-share Sensex closed up 321.66 points at 13,177.74.


Software, banking and metal stocks were the main gainers.


"Strong fund buying ahead of the earnings season kept the rally
going. A clear trend will emerge only after Infosys earnings data
and guidance," said Hiten Mehta, fund manager with Fortune
Financial Services.

