

The International Red Cross Monday expressed concern over a sharp
rise in civilian deaths in the northern and eastern regions of
Sri Lanka in the past few weeks, including a bombs aimed at
passenger buses.


"Only last week some 30 people were killed and more than 50
injured as a result of two bomb attacks on civilian buses and
other violent incidents," the Geneva- based International
Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) said.


Last Saturday, suspected Tamil Tiger rebels set off a roadside
bomb which hit a passenger bus in the eastern district of
Vavuniya killing eight people and injuring 25 others.


Sri Lanka accused Tamil Tiger rebels of setting off the blast,
while the guerrillas denied they were responsible for the attack
against civilians.


"The Sri Lankan military intelligence establishment has devised
bomb attacks and wanton killings during the last two weeks with a
sinister motive of tarnishing the image of the Tigers," LTTE
spokesman Rasiah Ilanthiriyan was quoted as saying on the pro-
rebel Tamilnet.com website.


The ICRC urged all parties in the conflict to respect
international humanitarian law, which prohibits direct attacks
against civilians and civilian objects in all circumstances.


"The ICRC is deeply concerned about the rising number of
civilians being injured or killed as a result of deliberate
attacks in Sri Lanka's escalating violence," the statement said.


According to defence ministry figures, more than 4,000 people
have died between December 2005 and the first week of March 2007,
including 675 civilians and 1,040 security personnel in the
latest upsurge of fighting.


The Tamil Tigers have waged a 35-year campaign for independence
that has claimed more than 60,000 lives in Sri Lanka.

