

Bangladesh captain Habibul Bashar hit out Monday at World Cup
killjoys who bemoan the absence of India and Pakistan saying the
sub-continental giants do not have a right to be in the finals.


"Someone asked me whether the World Cup has become stale after
the exit of India and Pakistan," Bashar wrote in his column in
the Prothom Alo newspaper.


"It seems that at any cost India and Pakistan should be included
in the Super Eight. They are not saying that India and Pakistan
lost two out of their three first round matches," the skipper
said.


"They don't have the right to play in the Super Eight," he
insisted. "If this attitude persists, one should organise 'Top
Ranking Cup' instead of the World Cup, where the teams will play
according to their rankings.


"The World Cup is not a property of one or two teams. It belongs
to every one and the best team will win the Cup."


Bashar was clearly irked after Bangladesh pulled off a major
upset by beating what was the world's top ranked team South
Africa by 67 runs.


He wrote in the Bengali daily that the win over South Africa
would silence some of the "noises"' heard after Bangladesh lost
their first two matches of the Super Eight round.


"I think this victory will stop all these things. Instead of
spoiling the show, Bangladesh has made the World Cup more
interesting. There are now plenty of teams now fighting for the
semi-finals," he added.


"We have a bright chance to play the semifinal if we can beat
England. The English team has some good players but they are not
playing well in the World Cup. So it will not be impossible to
beat them," he predicted.


Bangladesh meet England in their next match at Barbados on April
11, followed by Ireland and the West Indies at the same venue.

