

Thailand's military-installed Prime Minister Surayud Chulanont
will spend three days in hospital for an unscheduled medical
checkup, his doctor said Monday.


Surayud, 64, was admitted to a Bangkok hospital on Monday after
cancelling his appointments for the day.


His doctor insisted nothing serious was wrong with the prime
minister's health, but said he would spend three days in hospital
for a checkup and could return to work on April 12.


"He has high blood pressure, as well as higher fats and uric acid
than normal. There is nothing serious to worry about," said Dr.
Panya Taweethaikarn.


"The premier was scheduled to have a checkup last year (but
didn't). The last time he did was seven years ago," he told
reporters.


"This is a good opportunity, ahead of a long weekend, for the
checkup. The entire process will take a couple of days, when he
will stay at the hospital. He can leave to get back to work as
normal on April 12," the doctor added.


Thailand begins its five-day celebration of the Buddhist New Year
on Friday, a period when the country shuts down for the most
important holiday on the Thai calendar.


Surayud, a former army chief, was installed after the military
ousted elected premier Thaksin Shinawatra in a September coup.


Although many in Bangkok welcomed the coup, Surayud's popularity
has steadily fallen.


In a new poll of 1,200 people in the Bangkok metro area,
respondents rated his government at 4.5 out of 10, down from 5.27
three months earlier. Some 35 percent expressed dissatisfaction
with the government's performance.


Surayud's checkup came amid reports about conflicts between him
and the junta, as groups of anti-coup protesters have begun
rallying in in Bangkok.


A top aide to the premier said Surayud had no intention of
quitting.


"He has never thought of resigning. Despite the pressure he has
to shoulder, he will continue to work until his mission is
finished," Major General Ninnart Biewkhaimuk told reporters.

