

Suspected separatist militants killed five people in Thailand's
restive south, including a Muslim man blown apart by a car bomb,
police said Monday.


The 55-year-old's body was ripped in half when a 10-kilogram
(22-pound) bomb placed underneath his pick-up truck exploded in
Yala, one of three insurgency- plagued provinces bordering
Malaysia.


"The bomb was fixed under his car and detonated while he was
driving. The explosion totally destroyed the vehicle and also
seriously injured the victim's friend who was also in the car,"
police said.


A soldier was injured earlier Monday in Yala, when a mobile
phone-triggered bomb exploded. Police said insurgents were
targeting seven soldiers on patrol in the province.


Also in Yala on Monday a Buddhist man, 34, was killed in a drive-
by shooting by suspected separatists. Another Buddhist, a 35
-year-old ice-cream vendor, was shot dead in a similar attack
just 500 metres (1,600 feet) away.


A 40-year-old Muslim man had earlier been shot dead at his rubber
plantation in Yala, while in neighbouring Narathiwat province on
Sunday, a 52-year-old Muslim man was shot and killed near his
home, police said.


More than 2,000 people have been killed in Thailand's Muslim-
majority south since an insurgency broke out in January 2004.


Thailand's military-installed government has launched a raft of
peace measures, only to see the attacks escalate in the past six
months.


The attacks have also become more gruesome, with two beheadings
last month.

