

East Timor presidential candidate Jose Ramos-Horta accused the
country's powerful Fretilin party of intimidating voters
throughout the country Monday as the nation went to the polls.


Although he expressed confidence that the will of East Timor's
people would be realised, he said Fretilin had used dirty tactics
in an effort to win power.


"It is quite widespread, carried out by Fretilin activists on the
ground in parts of the country by officials appointed by the
government, such as secretaries of state and district officials,"
Ramos-Horta told CNN.


"When they say they conduct a campaign many of them they actually
conduct door to door intimidation."


"My campaign has been transparent."


Ramos-Horta, the serving prime minister of East Timor, faces
seven rivals for the president post, including former guerrilla
and Fretilin party candidate Francisco "Lu-Olo" Guterres, and an
ex-Indonesian political prisoner, Fernando "Lasama" de Araujo,
chairman of the opposition Democratic Party.


He said that although the country, which won independence five
years ago, could probably not expect 100 percent free and fair
elections as take place in Europe, Monday's poll would produce a
deserved winner.


"If it is 80 percent clean and perfect and well administered we
should be happy and maybe in 20 or 30 years time we will have
elections as clean as in Finland or in Norway," Ramos-Horta said.


"I have been travelling to many towns. What I found is that a
vast majority of the people ... ninety nine percent of the people
are not involved in violence.


"The common people are far better than most leaders and because
of them I believe the country will get back."


The former journalist and Nobel Prize winner pledged that if
elected he would work to alleviate East Timor's poverty and
improve education.


"We have money," Ramos-Horta said. "We have more than a billion
in the bank."

