

A German man has been arrested for alleged sexual abuse of a 13
-year-old Cambodian street girl, an anti-trafficking official
said Monday.


Walter Munz, a 62-year-old tourist from Stuttgart, was detained
on Sunday after police raided his guesthouse room in the capital
Phnom Penh, said Keo Thea, deputy chief of the municipal anti-
trafficking police.


When officers burst into the room, they found the German man in
his underwear with the girl, Keo Thea said.


Munz was arrested on charges of debauchery -- a statute covering
a broad range of sex offences that carry possible jail time of
between 10 and 20 years.


"He met with the girl some days ago along the riverside and
convinced the girl and her parents that he would help the girl
study English," Keo Thea said.


He said Munz had paid the girl's family 20 US dollars a week for
two weeks, notionally to pay for daily expenses, and had taken
the 13-year-old to and from school each day.


The girl told police that Munz forced her to have sex with him
many times.   She said that she reported the abuse to her mother,
who did not believe her.


Keo Thea said Munz, who entered Cambodia in 2006, had also
committed sexual abuse against children in his home country.


He will be sent to court to face formal charges on Monday or
Tuesday.


Last month, Phnom Penh Municipal Court sentenced two German men
to 28 and 12 years in prison on charges of human trafficking and
abusing several Vietnamese girls as young as 10.


Around two dozen foreigners have been jailed or deported to face
trial in their home countries for child sex crimes since 2003.


But officials, including foreign diplomats, have begun urging
authorities to target Cambodian sex offenders as well as
Westerners.

