

Japan and India on Monday opened a second round of talks on a
free trade deal that the Asian giants aim to seal within two
years, officials said.


The four-day talks follow a first round in New Delhi in February
that led to the creation of working groups to focus on trade in
goods, services, investment and bilateral cooperation, a Japanese
foreign ministry official said.


Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and his Japanese counterpart
Shinzo Abe pledged in December to conclude the talks within two
years, reflecting Tokyo's desire to strengthen ties with India to
compensate for tensions with China.


Japan is seeking cuts to India's 100 percent tariffs on vehicle
imports and the creation of common rules on investment and
services, officials said.


The Indian delegation meanwhile is pressing for deregulation of
Japanese customs inspections, cuts to tariffs on shrimp imports
and a loosening of visa rules for Indian medical care workers and
engineers.


In a gesture of goodwill, Japan last June lifted a ban on the
import of mangoes from India, a long-standing demand.


Bilateral trade between Japan and India hovers at only six
billion dollars, compared with the more than 170 billion dollars
of trade between Japan and China.


Japan, the world's second largest economy and a major exporter,
has been seeking a growing number of free trade deals against a
backdrop of stalled global trade liberalisation talks.


Since signing its first agreement with Singapore in 2002, Japan
has sealed trade agreements or framework deals with Brunei,
Chile, Indonesia, Mexico, Malaysia, the Philippines and Thailand.


India is also looking at a range of trade pacts, including with
China, South Korea and Australia, to add to its existing deals
with Thailand and Singapore.

