

Superstar guard Dwyane Wade was back in uniform for the Miami
Heat on Sunday, giving the defending National Basketball
Association champions another powerful weapon heading into the
playoffs.


Wade, removed from the inactive list after a month of
rehabilitating his dislocated left shoulder, didn't start, but
was available to come off the bench in the Heat's home game
against Charlotte.


He started practising with the team earlier this week, but hasn't
seen live action since he was hurt on February 21.


The 2006 NBA finals Most Valuable Player, Wade is averaging 28.8
points.  His return gives the Heat - who have climbed to the top
of the Southeast Division without him - their entire rotation for
the last 10 days of the regular season and the playoffs.


A year ago, Wade emerged from the shadow of Shaquille O'Neal to
dominate the finals and lift the Heat to their first NBA title.
He carried the Heat earlier this season, when O'Neal was
sidelined by a knee injury.


After suffering the injury, Wade weighed season-ending surgery
against rehabilitation, finally opting for the latter.


Ultimately, Wade will need surgery to repair the injury. Another
hard fall on the joint or an overextension could cause another
dislocation that would end his season.


Wade had led the Heat in scoring 12 straight games before
suffering the injury in the fourth quarter of a loss at Houston.
He missed 23 games, and the Heat did not seem to miss him, going
16-7 to overtake Washington in the Southeast.


However, Wade's absence also coincided with the coach Pat Riley's
return from knee and hip surgery and O'Neal's return to
dominance. O'Neal led Miami in scoring 14 times while Wade was
sidelined.

