

North Korean defectors in South Korea said Monday they have
launched a unified political grouping to fight dictatorship in
their communist homeland.


The Committee for Democratisation of North Korea said in a
statement it aims to "terminate the Kim Jong-Il regime" in
Pyongyang.


"Some 23 million compatriots in the North are still groaning
under dictatorship and repression, worse than Japan's past
colonial rule," it said.


The committee also denounced Seoul's engagement policy of
expanding economic cooperation and aid for North Korea, saying it
was "recklessly expending the resources for the dictator" in
Pyongyang.


"South Korean taxpayers' money has returned as (North Korean)
nuclear weapons and missiles, but few raise this problem," it
said.


North Korea staged missile tests last July and a nuclear test in
October.


The committee said it represents 21 different organisations for
North Korean defectors in the South.


It said Hwang Jang-Yop, the highest-ranking defector ever to come
South, has been named as chairman. Hwang, now a harsh critic of
Kim Jong-Il, was secretary of the ruling Workers' Party before
defecting in 1997.


About 10,000 North Koreans have come to South Korea in the past
half-century, including about 1,600 last year alone.


The number hiding out in China and awaiting an opportunity to
come to Seoul via a third country is estimated to number between
tens of thousands to hundreds of thousands.


The group's estimate of North Korean refugees, in China or
elsewhere, is around 400,000.

