

The Australian government increased pressure on local Muslims
Monday to sack their controversial leader after he reportedly
expressed support for the hardline Islamic government in Iran.


The Egyptian-born mufti Sheikh Taj Aldin al-Hilali urged the
Muslim world to unite behind Iran during a visit to Tehran last
week amid tension over the Iranian government's nuclear ambitions
and the capture of 15 British sailors, local media reported.


The cleric had already caused a storm of protest by describing
scantily-clad women as "uncovered meat" inviting rape and by
mocking the convict ancestry of many white Australians.


Hilali was quoted in Iran as saying Muslims should serve in
Iranian "trenches," The Australian newspaper said.


Foreign Minister Alexander Downer responded by calling on
Australia's Muslims to sack Hilali, describing him as "a massive
embarrassment."


"Here is a man who travels the world making all sorts of
completely absurd and incredible comments," Downer told
reporters. "This reflects on Australian Muslims and it reflects
on Australia.


"My view is that he has just got to be removed as the leader of
the Islamic community in Australia and some moderate and
reasonable person needs to take his place," Downer added.


Immigration Minister Kevin Andrews earlier urged Hilali to
consider leaving Australia, but noted there was no possibility of
stripping the mufti of his citizenship.


Several Islamic community leaders have also spoken out against
Hilali recently, saying he does not represent their views.


The Australian National Imams Council last month voted to keep
Hilali as mufti for at least three months but a spokesman said he
was likely to be replaced at the end of that period.

