

The official campaign in France's presidential election opened
Monday, two weeks ahead of the first round of voting, with
Nicolas Sarkozy and Segolene Royal the frontrunners in the polls.


The vote, one of the most exciting and important ballots in
recent French history, will mark the transition to a new
generation of leaders and possibly define the country's response
to the key issues of globalisation and national identity.


Royal, a Socialist who portrays herself as a nurturing figure,
and Sarkozy, a tough-on-crime rightwinger who is striving to
prove he has a softer side, continue to lead the race by several
points in the opinion polls.


But the polls also show that the centrist candidate Francois
Bayrou and the far- right leader Jean-Marie Le Pen are still very
much in the running. In theory any two of the four could make it
into the final round of voting on May 6.


On Monday all 12 contenders entered the final straight, with
official rules coming into effect for campaign broadcasts and
postering at polling booths. A hectic nationwide series of public
rallies and stump meetings now kicks in up to the first vote on
April 22.


France is choosing a successor to Jacques Chirac, 74, the veteran
leader who has been in office since 1995. French voters will also
be asked to choose members of parliament in legislative elections
set for June.


Also standing for the presidential vote are three Trotskyite
candidates, a Communist, a Green and the anti-globalisation
campaigner Jose Bove.


The last two runners are a hunters' party candidate who champions
rural interests and the Catholic nationalist Philippe de
Villiers.

