

Dwyane Wade made his return but Walter Herrmann spoiled the
moment scoring 15 points to give the Charlotte Bobcats a 111-103
win over the Miami Heat in the first game of a home-and-home
series.


In his first action since missing 23 games due to injury, Wade
made a fadeaway jumper on Sunday that pulled the Heat within one
point and then he tied the game at 92-92 with 2.4 seconds left by
making the back end of two free throws to send the game into
overtime.


Wade had three points and four assists in a 16-2 run that saw
Miami tie the game at 78-78, but Charlotte outscored the Heat,
19-11, in the extra session.


Alonzo Mourning added a season-high 20 points off the bench for
Miami, which had won 16 of its last 18 at home.


Wade, a three-time All-Star who suffered a separated shoulder in
a 112-102 loss to the Houston Rockets on February 21, decided to
rehabilitate the injury rather than have season-ending surgery
after meeting with famed orthopedic surgeon Dr. James Andrews on
March 5.


The combo guard came off the bench to a standing ovation with
3:58 left in the first quarter and immediately began making
plays.


"It shows the love of the fans here and it felt great to get
their support," Wade said of the ovation.  "(It's)just nice to be
back on the court again and now it's just a matter of getting
back in the flow."


Wade said Easter Sunday was the appropriate time for him to get
back on the court.


"I just felt like this was the day," he said. "It's resurrection
day, isn't it, so I decided this was a good day to resurrect."

