

China's farmland is becoming increasingly polluted, with coal-
dependent factories and polluted waterways causing billions of
dollars in damages, state press reported Monday.


Heavy metals contaminate 12 million tonnes of grains each year,
leading to direct losses of more than 20 billion yuan (2.6
billion dollars), the China Daily said, citing the nation's
environmental watchdog.


More than 10 million hectares (24.7 million acres), or 10 percent
of China's farming land, has been ruined, the paper said, citing
other reports in the state-run press.


China's coal industry, which supplies about 70 percent of the
nation's energy needs, is having a major impact.


More than two billion tonnes of coal is burnt each year,
discharging around 2,000 tonnes of mercury into the environment.


Much of the highly toxic heavy metal ultimately seeps into the
soil, the paper said.


Vegetables and fruit have also been polluted by excessive amounts
of nitrate reaching the ground, it added.


China's rapid economic expansion over the past few decades has
come at huge environmental cost.


More than 70 percent of China's waterways and 90 percent of its
underground water are contaminated by pollution, according to
previously released government figures, but the impact on soil
has never been measured.


To get an accurate picture, Chinese authorities are currently
undertaking their first-ever national survey of soil pollution.


The survey, which is costing the central government one billion
yuan is expected to be completed next year, according to the
China Daily.


The newspaper warned that urgent measures are needed to address
the problem.


"It takes a long time for pollutants to accumulate in soil to the
point of causing real harm. And it will take even more time and
be more costly to rid the soil of harmful elements," it said in
an editorial.

