

An impoverished Chinese marathon champion is seeking to sell her
gold medals while awaiting a court ruling against her former
coach who she accuses of taking her winnings, state press said
Monday.


Ai Dongmei, 26, former winner of the Beijing and Dalian
international marathons, is seeking to sell 16 race medals to
ward off poverty as she awaits a verdict against banned running
coach Wang Dexian, the Beijing News said.


"There is no other way out," the paper quoted Ai as saying about
her plans to sell the medals.


"Rent here is expensive and our family of three came to Beijing
with only 200 yuan (25 dollars) in our pockets."


She is seeking 1,000 yuan for each gold medal, but according to
the report, people have responded to her by post offering up to
10,000 yuan for a medal.


Ai retired from China's railway ministry's track and field team
four years ago suffering from foot injuries, ending a promising
career before she had the chance to make it to the Olympics.


She has since been trying to make ends meet by selling clothes in
Beijing, while her husband peddles popcorn in the suburbs of the
capital. The couple have a two-year-old baby.


She brought a lawsuit against Wang in September last year,
seeking 160,000 yuan in damages for injuries incurred during
training and accusing him of taking her prize money, the report
said.


"I was a marathon runner and I spent eight years of my life
training," Ai said.


"I brought glory to my country, but the money I should have
earned with my sweat and tears has not been paid."


Wang was banned for life as a coach after Ai's teammate and 2003
World Championship bronze medallist in the 5,000 metres, Sun
Yingjie, was tested positive for banned substances in 2005.


Prior to the ban, Sun split with Wang, accusing him of physically
abusing her as coach, including once breaking her collarbone and
routinely whipping her with a belt.

