

Japanese share prices rose by 1.27 percent in morning trade on
Monday after strong US jobs data calmed jitters over the US
economy and pushed down the yen in a boost for exporters, dealers
said.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
climbed 221.78 points to 17,706.56 by the lunch break.


The TOPIX index of all issues on the Tokyo Stock Exchange's first
section gained 18.53 points or 1.08 percent to 1,735.61.


Gainers were beating decliners 1,307 to 294, with 126 issues
flat.


Volume was 898 million shares, down from 906 million on Friday
morning.


A weaker yen created optimism about the earnings of Japanese
exporters while the unexpectedly strong US employment data for
last month reduced anxiety about the state of the US economy,
dealers said.


"Export-oriented shares, especially those in the precision
equipment and auto sectors, reacted favorably to the weaker yen,"
said Hiroyuki Fukunaga, a strategist at Rakuten Securities.


"If these heavyweights in the Nikkei index overcome their recent
weakness and attract further buying, and if Wall Street continues
to perform encouragingly, the Nikkei may climb back towards
18,300 points in the coming weeks," he said.


Among exporters, Isuzu Motors rallied 18 yen or 2.88 percent to
643 after the Nikkei newspaper reported that the truck maker was
set to resume production in the US. The company later confirmed
that it was considering building a plant in Alabama but that no
firm decision had been made.


Toyota Motor, which last year bought a 5.9 percent stake in
Isuzu, edged up 100 yen or 1.35 percent to 7,500 and Nissan Motor
climbed 19 yen or 1.49 percent to 1,294.


Among makers of precision equipment, Pentax shot up 67 yen or
9.14 percent to 800 after the Japanese optical glass maker Hoya
Corp. said Friday it was considering making a tender offer for
the company.


In the technology sector, Sony gained 130 yen or 2.1 percent to
6,330, while Tokyo Electron advanced 170 yen or 1.99 percent to
8,720.


KDDI rallied 34,000 yen or 3.48 percent to a seven-year high of
1,010,000 yen on the company's plan to offer a cellphone service
in the US for Japanese subscribers through the network of a US
company, dealers said.

