

India's Jeev Milkha Singh left Augusta National a frustrated man
on Sunday but he has vowed to make a quick return to the Masters.


A quadruple bogey eight in the opening hole led Singh to a final
round of seven- over-par 79 and although he birdied his final
hole to tie for 37th place in his Masters debut, Singh was upset
with his day's effort.


"I'm really disappointed, I'm not happy," he said.


"I enjoyed everything except for the last round at the Masters
but that's alright.


"Maybe I'll learn something from here. I started off badly and
didn't get back into shape after that. That was it," said the
Asian Tour number one, who totalled 14-over-par 302 in the year's
opening major.


"I couldn't get my focus back after that bad start. I kept trying
hard on every shot but I couldn't do anything. I had some bad
breaks as well but that's golf."


After missing the green on the opening hole, Singh's third shot
with a chip failed to hold on the green and the ball rolled off
into a bunker.


Singh, the first Indian to play at the Masters, splashed his
fourth to the back of the green and two chips and two putts
later, the Indian staggered off with a calamitous eight.


Playing alongside Vijay Singh of Fiji, Singh's wayward driving
kept him on the back foot as he dropped two double bogeys and
three bogeys against four birdies on the card.


"On the third shot (at the first hole), I should have played more
conservatively and hit it on the right side. I thought the greens
were wet as I saw that Vijay's ball pitched but I mishit my
third.


"I'm not proud with the way I finished. I'm happy that I made the
cut and I would love to come back as I like the course. It's set
up perfectly for my game. We'll see what happens next year,"
added Singh.

