

Iran Monday broadcast new footage of the British sailors and
marines held for nearly a fortnight, saying the pictures of them
playing table-tennis and watching a Premiership football game
showed they were well treated.


Several of the 15 mariners said on their return to Britain at the
weekend that they had been maltreated and subjected to
psychological pressure during their detention.


In a clear bid to counter the reports from Britain, Iran's Arabic
language channel Al-Alam broadcast fresh footage that showed two
sailors playing table- tennis and a larger group playing chess on
a Persian carpet.


Other pictures showed them watching a crunch football game
between Liverpool and Arsenal, laughing while sitting barefoot in
tracksuits on a rug and tucking into a meal of kebabs and soup.


"These pictures show the relaxation and freedom they enjoyed
during their detention period. This contradicts what they said
when they arrived home in Britain," said the channel's
newsreader.


"Tehran opened its arms and offered hospitality to the 15 British
sailors," added the newsreader.


The footage appears to have been taken at the same time as
photographs which were released by the Fars news agency the day
before the shock announcement of their release by President
Mahmoud Ahmadinejad on Wednesday.


The sole female British sailor among the 15 captured, Faye
Turney, said in an interview published Monday that her captors
stripped her to her underwear, lied to her and threatened she
might never see her baby again.


Families of British soldiers killed in Iraq, politicians and
military figures have heavily criticised the British government
for allowing the 15 mariners to sell their stories to the media.

