

Australian retail giant Coles warned shareholders Monday not to
sell their interests in the company as it considers a 16 billion
US dollar takeover bid.


Coles said in a statement it remained open to bids other than
that spearheaded by Australian conglomerate Wesfarmers Ltd.


The group was committed to running a "fully competitive process
in evaluating ownership alternatives in order to maximise
shareholder value for Coles shareholders," the statement said.


"Until such time as Coles' ownership review has been completed
and the Coles Board has made a recommendation to shareholders,
Coles shareholders are advised not to sell, or grant economic or
voting interests over, their shares."


Wesfarmers, a leader in home improvement and building supplies,
last week led a share raid on Coles which netted more than 11
percent of its stock.


The conglomerate has offered 16.47 Australian dollars cash per
share, valuing Coles at 19.7 billion (16.1 billion US dollars).


If the bid is successful it will be one of the biggest takeovers
in Australian corporate history.


Coles said that talks had continued over the Easter weekend but
Wesfarmers  had not yet been granted access to any non-public
material.


A number of interested parties would likely be granted access to
the data room to begin due diligence shortly, Coles said.


The Wesfarmer bid trumps the failed 18.2 billion dollar offer for
Coles made by US private equity outfit Kohlberg Kravis Roberts
(KKR) last year, and there is some speculation that KKR or
another suitor could emerge.


Coles said the current interest in voting power in Coles Group
securities held by the Wesfarmers-led group could note prevent or
deter any alternative ownership proposal for the company.

