

Japanese share prices closed up 1.48 percent Monday at a near
six-week high after strong US jobs data calmed jitters over the
US economy and pushed down the yen in a boost for exporters,
dealers said.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
rose 258.98 points to finish at 17,743.76, the highest closing
level since February 27.


The broader TOPIX index of all first-section issues gained 21.02
points or 1.22 percent to close at 1,738.10.


Gainers beat decliners 1,424 to 232, with 72 issues flat.


Volume rose to 1.91 million shares from 1.78 million on Friday.


A weaker yen created optimism about the earnings of Japanese
exporters while the unexpectedly strong US employment data for
last month reduced anxiety about the state of the US economy,
dealers said.


"Export-oriented shares, especially those in the precision
equipment and auto sectors, reacted favorably to the weaker yen,"
said Hiroyuki Fukunaga, a strategist at Rakuten Securities.


"If these heavyweights in the Nikkei index overcome their recent
weakness and attract further buying, and if Wall Street continues
to perform encouragingly, the Nikkei may climb back towards
18,300 points in the coming weeks," he said.


The Labor Department in Washington said last Friday that the US
economy added 180,000 jobs in March, which was much stronger that
the gain of 135,000 expected on Wall Street.


Among exporters, Isuzu Motors rose 23 yen or 3.68 percent to 648
as investors welcomed the truck maker's plan to resume production
in the US, dealers said. Toyota Motor, which holds a minority
stake in Isuzu, edged up 140 yen or 1.89 percent to 7,540.


In the technology sector, Sony closed 240 yen or 3.87 percent
higher at 6,440.


Among makers of precision equipment, Pentax shot up 67 yen or
9.14 percent to 800 after the Japanese optical glass maker Hoya
said Friday it was considering making a tender offer for the
camera manufacturer.


KDDI rallied 34,000 yen or 3.48 percent to a seven-year high of
1,010,000 yen on the company's plan to offer a cellphone service
in the US for Japanese subscribers through the network of a US
company, dealers said.


On the foreign exchange market, the dollar rose to 119.32 yen in
Tokyo afternoon trade from 118.85 in late Asian trade on Friday,
when US and European markets were on holiday.


The euro fell to 1.3359 dollars from 1.3417 and to 159.40 from
159.44.

