

Bank of Japan policymakers began a two-day meeting on interest
rates on Monday but financial markets see little chance of
another hike after the first drop in consumer prices for 10
months in February.


In February, the Bank of Japan raised its key interest rates by a
quarter-point to 0.5 percent, the first increase since last July
when it ended its highly unorthodox policy of virtually free
credit.


BoJ governor Toshihiko Fukui has said he hopes to keep raising
interest rates gradually but he faces political resistance to
further monetary tightening, particularly after consumer price
changes turned negative again.


The BoJ will be "wary of losing credibility if the Japanese
economy contracts, in light of currently weak economic indicators
in the US," Morgan Stanley economist Takehiro Sato wrote in a
research note.


The central bank is also aware that delaying a rate hike would
ease political pressure, he added.


Analysts say that political sensitivities linked to the July
elections in Japan's upper house of parliament mean that the
BoJ's next increase in interest rates is unlikely to come before
the second half of 2007.


But market expectations for another interest rate rise later this
year should grow if Japan's economic growth for the first quarter
of 2007 proves solid, Sato said.


Analysts said that a press conference by the two new BoJ policy
board members on Wednesday would probably be of greater interest
to financial markets than the central bank's interest rate
decision.


Little is known about the interest rate views of former
Mitsubishi Corp. vice president Hidetoshi Kamezaki, 64, and
former MOL Ferry Co. president Seiji Nakamura, 64, who have just
joined the central bank for five-year terms.

