

Thousands of Shiites carrying Iraqi flags converged Monday in the
holy city of Najaf for an anti-US rally called by radical cleric
Moqtada al-Sadr as the war- torn country marked the fourth
anniversary of the fall of Saddam Hussein's regime.


Large crowds of men, women and children, holding flags and anti-
US banners, gathered in Najaf and the nearby twin city of Kufa
for the protest which is also seen as a show of strength for the
cleric who himself has been in self-exile for more than two
months, an AFP correspondent said.


The rally will initially begin in Kufa and then head to Najaf's
Sadrain Square, the reporter said.


Members of Sadr's movement were seen guiding the crowds, while
Iraqi police and army soldiers guarded key checkpoints in and
around Najaf and Kufa.


At many places Iraqi and US flags were painted on the ground and
being trampled by the Shiite crowd, the reporter said, adding
that some Sunni religious groups were also seen participating in
the rally.


It was not immediately known whether Sadr himself would address
the rally later in Najaf.


Sadr has been in a self-imposed exile for more than two months
before the security crackdown began in Baghdad, largely aimed at
reining in his militiamen who are accused by the US military of
spearheading the sectarian killings of Sunni Arabs.


The cleric, who launched two bloody rebellions against US forces
in 2004, is known for his anti-US stance and has emerged as a
powerful force in the present Shiite-led Iraqi government.


His political bloc has 32 lawmakers in the 275-member Iraqi
parliament and six cabinet ministers in Prime Minister Nuri al-
Maliki's embattled government.

