

Spanish media reacted with scepticism on Monday to an offer by
the armed Basque separatist group ETA to renew its commitment to
peace as long as the Spanish government ceases its "attacks" on
the northern Basque region.


"If the attacks on the Basque homeland disappear, we are prepared
to make firm commitments to a scenario of non-violence", ETA said
in a lengthy interview with unnamed fighters published Sunday in
Basque newspaper Gara, the armed group's usual mouthpiece.


ETA also said it stood by its ceasefire declaration of March
2006, even though that was interrupted in December with a car
bomb attack at Madrid's airport that left two people dead.


The interview with the unnamed ETA fighters was the group's first
statement since January, when it took responsibility for the
airport bombing, and it follows a sweep in recent weeks by
Spanish police which dismantled an ETA commando unit that carried
out 24 attacks between 2004 and 2006.


Daily newspaper El Pais, which is close to the Socialist
government, said in an editorial that ETA's insistence that its
ceasefire continued despite the Madrid airport bombing was
"delirious".


"This is a cunning argument which deserves no credibility," it
said.


The Spanish government stopped the peace process with ETA after
the bombing.


A spokeswoman for the government refused to comment on the Gara
interview, saying only that it expects "a definitive renunciation
of violence" from the group, while the main opposition Popular
Party said the ETA interview was blackmail.


Conservative daily ABC echoed the Popular Party's position,
adding in an editorial that the Gara interview "showed how it is
impossible to negotiate with terrorists to put an end to
violence."


"ETA is not saying nothing now that it has not said before," ABC
added.


ETA is responsible for 819 deaths in its 38-year campaign to win
independence for the Basque region which straddles northern Spain
and southwestern France.

