

Taliban militants threatened Monday to kill a second Afghan
hostage unless the government enters negotiations over his
release, a rebel spokesman said.


The threat to kill one of a five-member team of Afghan medics
snatched in southern Kandahar province on March 27 comes less
than 24 hours after the Islamists beheaded an Afghan journalist
in neighbouring Helmand province.


Afghan reporter Ajmal Naqshbandi, kidnapped last month with
Italian journalist Daniele Mastrogiacomo, was beheaded Sunday
after the government failed to meet Taliban demands to free rebel
prisoners.


"We'll kill one of the doctors if the government fails to enter
negotiations before April 15," Shohaabuddin Atal, a spokesman for
top Taliban military commander Mullah Dadullah, told AFP.


He refused to give details of the rebels' demands.


He alleged that the doctor he identified as Khalilullah was a
cousin of the governor of Nangarhar province in eastern
Afghanistan. The Taliban will decide the fate of the other four
medics later, he said.


Nangarhar governor Gul Agha Sherzai is originally from Taliban-
dominated Kandahar and was one of several Afghan militia
commanders who helped US-led troops to topple the Taliban regime
in late 2001.


The Taliban, who are waging an intense insurgency focused on
southern and eastern Afghanistan, have used kidnappings as part
of their campaign against the Kabul government and international
troops.


The militants have been holding two French nationals and three
Afghan colleagues since they abducted them in the southwestern
province of Nimroz on Tuesday.


Atal said on Sunday that Taliban leaders will decide the fate of
the French pair and their Afghan assistants.

