

China urged Sudan on Monday to be "more flexible" on a plan put
forward by former UN chief Kofi Annan to bolster peacekeeping
operations in the war-torn western region of Darfur.


"China appreciates Sudan's efforts in restoring peace in Darfur
but is expecting more flexibility on the Annan plan," Chinese
envoy Zhai Jun told reporters in Khartoum.


Annan last year floated a plan for the United Nations to prop up
the embattled African Union peacekeeping contingent in Darfur but
Khartoum has stalled, arguing it would amount to the deployment
of Western troops on its soil.


"There is no fundamental contradiction between Sudanese fears and
the Annan plan," the Chinese foreign ministry official said as he
wrapped up a three-day visit to Sudan.


The international community has urged China to start using its
economic leverage to put pressure on Khartoum over Darfur, where
four years of US-backed diplomacy have failed to stem the
bloodshed.


According to the United Nations, at least 200,000 people have
been killed and more than two million displaced in Darfur since
the fighting erupted in February 2003. Some sources say the death
toll is much higher.


China is the leading foreign investor in Sudan, absorbs almost
two thirds of its oil output and has repeatedly shielded Khartoum
from UN sanctions.


Implementation of the Annan plan has already started but
differences have emerged over the third and final phase, which is
supposed to lead to a joint -- or "hybrid" -- peacekeeping force
grouping AU and UN troops.


"We hope our Sudanese friends will accept this plan. The name of
the force, joint or hybrid, is not important," said Zhai.


His comments came as Sudanese, AU and UN officials were due to
meet in Addis Ababa on Monday to discuss the exact nature of UN
support for the 7,000-strong African contingent currently
deployed in Darfur.

