

Japan's Isuzu Motors Ltd. is considering resuming truck
production in the United States after a five-year gap by building
a plant in Alabama, a company spokesman said Monday.


Isuzu, in which fast-growing Toyota Motor Corp. holds a stake,
has bought land in the US state for a truck assembly plant, the
spokesman said.


"We have long been considering resuming production in the United
States. However, we have not decided on further details including
when we can officially resume operations and what type of
vehicles we are going to build," he said.


The Nikkei business daily reported Monday that Isuzu plans to
launch operations at the new plant in 2010 to assemble trucks
with a load capacity of at least four tonnes.


The facility is to have annual output of around 5,000 units in
the first year, to be increased thereafter, the newspaper said,
without naming its sources.


Engines and platforms will be shipped from Japan to the Alabama
factory, which would assemble the vehicles.


The plant would mark Isuzu's return to auto production in the
United States after withdrawing in 2002 from a joint production
arrangement with Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd. as part of
restructuring measures.


With the move, the truck manufacturer aims to increase its annual
US truck sales from the current 30,000 units to around 50,000
units in 2010, according to the Nikkei.


Isuzu hopes to nearly double overseas truck sales from some
160,000 units in the year to March 2007 to 300,000 units in 2010.


Last year, Toyota Motor Corp. bought a 5.9 percent stake in Isuzu
after troubled US auto giant General Motors sold its shares in
the carmaker for about 300 million dollars to raise cash in the
face of its own heavy losses.


Toyota is forecast this year to surpass General Motors as the
world's top automaker and has been shifting more production to
the United States, hoping to prevent a protectionist backlash in
its key market.

