

South Korea's leading university said Monday it had begun an
investigation into factual research errors by a team which
announced last month it had created the world's first cloned
wolves.


The team -- led by Lee Byung-Chun and Shin Nam-Shik, veterinary
professors at Seoul National University (SNU) -- announced on
March 26 it had cloned two female wolves named Snuwolf and
Snuwolffy in October 2005.


Lee was also a leading member of the team led by now-disgraced
scientist Hwang Woo-Suk, which produced the world's first cloned
dog in early 2005.


Lee's research paper on the wolf cloning was later found to
contain a simple mistake in calculating the success rate of his
attempts to clone dogs.


This error understated the past success rate and made the
apparent technical progress the team had made since then more
impressive.


Lee said the mistake was inadvertent and he had asked the journal
in question, Cloning and Stem Cells, to correct the figure.


Yonhap news agency said there were also suspicions that the
research team gave incorrect details in a table analysing the
mitochondrial DNA sequence of the cloned wolves and their
surrogate mother dogs.


SNU was hard hit by the scandal over Hwang, who was hailed as a
national hero until the university's inquiry ruled that some of
his work on cloning embryonic human stem cells was fake.


He is now on trial for fraud, embezzlement, ethical breaches and
other charges but has insisted he can still prove he created the
first cloned human stem cells.


The work of his team in creating the world's first cloned dog,
named Snuppy (Seoul National University puppy), has been verified
by SNU and other authorities.

