

Somali Deputy Prime Minister Hussein Aidid has demanded the
withdrawal of Ethiopian troops from the country to allow the
people to decide their future.


"Ethiopian troops must leave from Somali territory to let the
Somalis decide their own fate," Aideed said in a brief interview
broadcast on Eritrean state- run EriTV late Sunday.


Aidid expressed fears that Somalia, which recently suffered its
worst violence in the past 15 years, was becoming another Iraq,
split between warring factions and foreign forces.


Four days of heavy fighting that erupted late last month between
Ethiopian forces and a combination of local militia and remnants
of a defeated Islamist movement killed hundreds and forced
thousands to flee the capital Mogadishu.


Mogadishu has been the scene of intermittent battles since the
Ethiopia troops backed the weak interim government to oust the
Islamists late December.


Aidid was in Asmara for talks with President Issaias Afeworki,
who repeated warnings that foreign forces were complicating the
situation in Mogadishu, and that accusations that Islamist forces
are terrorists was wrong.


"As long as the Islamic faith facilitates the reconstitution and
unity of Somalia, why should it be a target?," Issaias said,
according to a statement on the information ministry's website.


"Those forces who seek to link the Islamic faith with terrorism
are the very ones who do not respect and understand the Islamic
faith, as well as aspire to put into effect their agenda of
religious politics."


Analysts have expressed fears that Ethiopia and Eritrea, still at
odds over their unresolved 1998-2000 border conflict, are
fighting a proxy war in Somalia.

