

The youngest British captive held by Iran said in an interview
published Monday that the gifts the Iranians gave to the seized
sailors were a cheap load of old junk -- and they stole his iPod.


Royal Navy Able Seaman Arthur Batchelor, 20, said the suits they
were given were "tacky," the CDs and DVDs do not work and there
was no sign of his iPod portable media player, worth 160 pounds
(315 dollars, 235 euros).


The 15 sailors and marines, seized in the northern Gulf on March
23, were given the gifts when their 13-day ordeal at the hands of
the Revolutionary Guards ended. They were seen examining them in
Iranian television footage.


The 11 books Batchelor was given were in English and mostly aimed
at trying to convert the reader to Islam, with titles like "Youth
and Morals", "The Divine Intervention" and "Knowing God". He also
received some toffees and a bag of nuts.


"They're a bit pathetic," Batchelor told the Daily Mirror
newspaper of the gifts.


"I don't know what they're trying to prove by giving us books on
morality and their religion. My morals are fine, thank you very
much.


"And those suits were an insult. Not only did mine not fit, but
it was cheap and tacky and the Hugo Boss shirt was a fake. I
could pick up a better outfit at a jumble sale."


When captured, the Revolutionary Guards seized all the navy
personnel's belongings.


The Britons were on a United Nations mandate to conduct anti-
smuggling operations within Iraqi waters. Iran insists they were
within its waters.


"The iPod was really special to me as it was a gift," said
Batchelor, an operator maintainer.


"It was in a pocket in my overalls. The guards took everything
off us -- including cigarettes and watches.


"All we were left with was the clothes on our back. We were told
we'd get them back -- but I'm still waiting."

