

Chinese share prices closed up 2.27 percent Monday at a fresh
record high on sustained cash inflow and upbeat expectations for
first-quarter results, dealers said.


They said steelmakers and financial stocks gained ground as
investors believe the upward trend would continue.


"The strong market gains recorded over the past three weeks are
attracting more and more investors to stocks, and the Shanghai
Composite will likely reach 3,500 points soon if no major
negative news emerges," said Wang Sai, an analyst at Wanguo
Consulting.


The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index, which covers A and
B-shares, closed up 75.37 points at 3,398.95 on turnover of
139.94 billion yuan (18.10 billion US dollars).


The Shanghai A-share Index was up 79.45 points or 2.27 percent at
3,572.41 on turnover of 139.29 billion yuan. The Shenzhen A-share
Index was up 19.71 points or 2.12 percent at 949.10 on turnover
of 73.27 billion yuan.


Analysts said expectations of strong first-quarter results could
help maintain upward momentum.


"The upward trend will be maintained at least until the end of
April when all the listed firms finish issuing their first-
quarter results, which will likely show average year-on-year
earnings growth of 30 percent to 40 percent," Wang Jun, an
analyst at Merchants Securities, said.


Steelmakers were buoyed by hopes of significant earnings for the
year, dealers said.


Bengang Steel Plates was up its 10 percent daily limit at 10.04
yuan.


Nanjing Iron Steel was also up 10 percent limit at 9.66 yuan.
Angang New Steel was up 1.18 yuan or 7.41 percent at 17.10.


Financial stocks were in demand after CITIC Securities said it
expects net profit for the first quarter to be more than 12 times
the year-earlier level.


Trading in CITIC Securities was suspended today due to a
shareholder meeting.


Hong Yuan Securities was up its 10 percent limit at 29.59 yuan.


Industrial Bank was up 1.61 yuan or 5.71 percent at 29.83. Ping
An Insurance (Group) was up 3.60 yuan or 7.50 percent at 51.61.


Shanghai Pudong Development Bank was up 0.35 yuan or 1.24 percent
at 28.60. The Xinhua news agency reported that Ji Xiaohui, deputy
secretary general of the Shanghai government and head of the
city's Financial Services Office, has been appointed the bank's
chairman.


Aluminum maker Shanxi Guanlu was up 0.23 yuan or 2.14 percent at
11.0 after projecting 2006 net profit rose about 150 percent due
to lower raw material prices and higher product prices.


ZTE Corp was up 0.71 yuan or 1.51 percent at 47.86. It has
confirmed contract wins from China Mobile Communications Corp for
third-generation mobile networks based on China's TD-SCDMA
technology.


China Yangtze Power was up 0.19 yuan or 1.47 percent at 13.12
after issuing its output report. It generated 5.775 billion
kilowatt-hours of electricity during the first quarter, unchanged
from a year earlier.


Minmetals Development was down 0.13 yuan or 0.72 percent at 17.86
even though net profit for 2006 came in at 530.64 million yuan,
up 59.59 percent due to strong domestic demand and higher product
prices.


The Shanghai B-share Index ended up 2.25 points or 1.21 percent
at 188.76 on turnover of 644.52 million US dollars and the
Shenzhen B-share Index finished up 6.87 points or 1.27 percent at
546.40, a fresh closing high, on turnover of 845.14 million Hong
Kong dollars (109.33 million US dollars).

