

Israeli Arab MP Azmi Bishara, a staunch opponent of Israel's
policies towards the Palestinians and neighbouring Arab states,
is expected to resign from parliament, a report said on Monday.


Bishara, who is currently on a trip abroad, "will tender his
resignation from the Knesset (parliament) on Tuesday," the
Israeli Arab-language Assennara daily said on its Website.


According to the report, which was denied by his party, Bishara
will submit his resignation in a letter through "one of his
colleagues."


The report did not explain the reason for the surprise move by
Bishara, who has drawn fire from Israeli authorities in the past
over his positions and visits to Arab countries which Israel
considers enemy states.


His party, the National Democratic Assembly, or Balad, denied
"the inexact and untrue reports." No other party member was
available for immediate comment on the report.


Bishara left Israel two weeks ago to attend meetings and has
remained abroad even though he briefly returned to Israel last
week to attend a wedding, the report said.


The 50 year old entered the Israeli parliament in 1996 as the
head of Balad which was formed following the Oslo accords between
the Jewish state and the Palestinians.


He has travelled several times to Syria where he met with
President Bashar al- Assad.


Several weeks after Israel and Hezbollah ended their fighting in
Lebanon last August, Bishara and two other Balad MPs carried out
a controversial visit to Syria and Lebanon in defiance of an
Israeli ban on such visits.


Israeli Interior Ministry Roni Bar-On ordered an investigation
against the three for travelling to Syria without requesting a
permit from authorities.

