

The US point man on North Korea said Monday he was hopeful there
would be progress within days as the clock ticks for Pyongyang to
meet a deadline in a breakthrough aid-for-disarmament deal.


Starting a trip to Asia, US envoy Christopher Hill said that
Washington was working to find a way to return unfrozen funds to
North Korea, a row that has held up other issues.


North Korea pledged in a six-nation deal in February to shut down
the key Yongbyon nuclear facility and allow the return of UN
nuclear inspectors by April 14 in return for badly needed fuel
aid.


"I'm hopeful that we can make progress in the next couple of days
such that we can get going on denuclearisation, especially on the
Yongbyon facilities and getting inspectors in," Hill told
reporters at Narita airport near Tokyo.


"We've had some ideas on how we can move forward, so we have some
ideas on how we can do this, but it has proven to be a very
difficult task," he said.


Both China, which is North Korea's main ally, and Japan have
doubted whether Pyongyang can meet the deadline amid a row over
how to return 25 million dollars in North Korean money that had
been frozen at a Macau bank.


North Korea, which tested an atom bomb last year, stormed out of
the latest round of six-way talks in March, saying it will not
negotiate until it sees the cash.


Hill starts his tour one day after a bipartisan US team headed by
former UN ambassador Bill Richardson arrived in Pyongyang. The
mission is in North Korea to recover the remains of US soldiers
killed in the Korean War.

