

Citibank N.A. of the US has agreed to acquire Taiwan's Bank of
Overseas Chinese (BOOC) for 14.1 billion Taiwan dollars (426
million US dollars), BOOC said Monday.


Citibank will acquire all 1.194 billion outstanding shares in
BOOC at 11.8 dollars per share through its subsidiary Citibank
Overseas Investment Corp, the Taiwanese bank said in a statement
filed to the Taiwan Stock Exchange.


The merger, pending regulatory approval, is expected to be
completed in the second half of this year, the statement said.


A group of major BOOC shareholders, including Polaris Securities
Co, Far Glory Life Insurance Co and APEX International Financial
Engineering Research and Technology Co has agreed to vote in
favour of the proposed transaction.


"The investment is expected to benefit Citibank's long term
development in Taiwan," it said.


The privately-run BOOC, founded in 1961, operates 55 branches in
Taiwan with 2,200 employees serving more than one million
customers.


After the acquisition, Citibank is expected to rank as the 13th
largest bank and largest foreign bank in Taiwan by raising the
number of its branches to at least 66 on the island.


Robert Morse, chief executive officer of Citi Markets and Banking
Asia Pacific, said in a separate statement the acquisition of
BOOC was a significant step in strengthening Citi's presence in
Taiwan.


"It reflects our ability and desire to complement our robust
organic growth plans in the Asia Pacific region with strategic
acquisitions, and to serve our clients better by expanding both
our domestic presence and product offerings."


Citi Taiwan country officer Morris Li said the acquisition
supports a long term growth strategy in Taiwan, to go deeper into
the local market and reach a broader base of customers across all
areas of banking.


In November 2006, Standard Chartered, the Britain-based emerging
markets bank, completed a tender offer to take over Hsinchu
International Bank for 1.2 billion US dollars.

