

Indonesia expressed hope on Monday for a peaceful election in
East Timor and pledged to work with the new president of the tiny
country it invaded and occupied for 24 years.


"Indonesia hopes that the presidential elections in Timor-Leste
will proceed in an orderly and safe way," President Susilo
Bambang Yudhoyono said, as quoted by his spokesman Dino Patti
Djalal.


He said Yudhoyono was "carefully observing" the process.


"The government of Indonesia is ready to cooperate with whoever
will become the next president of Timor-Leste," he said,
referring to the country by its formal name.


Eight candidates including Prime Minister Jose Ramos-Horta were
vying Monday to replace Xanana Gusmao, a former guerrilla leader
who spent time in an Indonesian prison during the occupation. He
is not seeking re-election.


"Timor-Leste will continue to remain a good friend of Indonesia,"
Djalal quoted Yudhoyono, a retired general, as saying.


Indonesia's 1975 invasion of the former Portuguese colony led
directly to the deaths of more than 100,000 East Timorese, or 10
percent of the population, an official investigative commission
found.


At least 1,400 died in violence surrounding a 1999 United
Nations-supervised referendum, in which East Timorese voted
overwhelmingly for self-determination.


The vote unleashed an Indonesian military-backed campaign of
murder, arson, looting and forced deportation of the population
before the occupiers pulled out, leaving much of the territory's
infrastructure destroyed.


East Timor gained independence in 2002 after a period of UN
stewardship.


Gusmao and the Indonesian leadership say they have moved on from
their painful past.

