

The global airline industry is forecast to return to the black
this year with 3.8 billion US dollars in profits after six years
of losses totalling more than 40 billion dollars, an industry
association said Wednesday.


The International Air Transport Association (IATA) raised its
2007 profit forecast for the world's airlines from 2.5 billion
dollars previously due to strong traffic demand and controlling
capacity.


It said the higher profit forecast can be achieved despite an
expected slowdown in the US economy, and oil prices staying at
more than 60 dollars a barrel.


Net profits could inrcease to 7.6 billion dollars in 2008 on
faster US growth and expected lower oil prices, it said in a
forecast released on the sidelines of a speech by IATA director-
general Giovanni Bisignani in Singapore.


"After six years and over 40 billion US dollars in losses, this
year will see the industry return to profitability," Bisignani
told airline executives.


"In fact, today we are raising our profit outlook for 2007 to 3.8
billion US dollars," he said, adding however "there is a lot of
hard work still ahead."


In its forecast report, IATA cautioned that despite improving
profits, "the industry remains vulnerable to the kind of shocks
that hit demand and costs in the past six years."


Returns on capital remain below the average achieved in the late
1990s, it said.


Airline balance sheets "remain fragile" and "airlines have not
been able to use the strength of revenues to build up a cash
cushion against shocks," IATA warned.

