

Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki said Wednesday he represented all
of Iraq and not just Shiite Muslims ahead of a visit to Asia
meant to secure more aid.


In an interview with Japan's public broadcaster NHK in Baghdad,
Maliki called for unity in his war-torn country fraught with
factional strife.


"We want to avoid divisions in the country. The nation exists for
every Iraqi and supports our government," Maliki said, according
to NHK's translation from the Arabic.


"Therefore, we do not tolerate legal violations committed by
either Sunni factions or Shiite factions," he said. "Our
government represents the whole of Iraq."


He thanked Japan for deciding last week to extend by two years an
air force mission that flies goods and personnel into Iraq for
US-led forces and the United Nations.


"Thanks to Self-Defence Forces, our private facilities have been
rebuilt. We hope Japan will further expand its assistance,"
Maliki said.


Japan last year withdrew its 600 ground troops from Iraq. The
reconstruction mission marked the first time since World War II
that officially pacifist Tokyo sent troops -- known as the Self-
Defence Forces -- to a country where fighting was under way.


Despite their withdrawal, Japan has maintained the air force
mission, which includes some 210 personnel based in Kuwait.


Maliki is scheduled to make his first visit to the world's second
biggest economy from Sunday to Wednesday and meet with Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe and Emperor Akihito.


Japan will agree to help Iraq improve crude oil output and push
for reconciliation in the war-torn country when comes here next
week, a Japanese foreign ministry official said Tuesday.

