

Singapore has invited the leader of Myanmar's ruling junta,
Senior General Than Shwe, to visit the city-state, the foreign
ministry here said.


Foreign Minister George Yeo, who is on a visit to Myanmar,
conveyed the invitation from Singapore President S.R. Nathan, the
ministry said in a statement issued late Tuesday.


Yeo visited Thein Sein, a leading member of the junta or State
Peace and Development Council (SPDC), in Mynamar's new capital
Naypyidaw on Tuesday, the statement said.


"During the meeting, Minister Yeo also conveyed an invitation
letter from President S.R. Nathan to SPDC Chairman and Commander-
in-Chief of Defence Services Senior General Than Shwe to visit
Singapore," the statement said.


A foreign ministry spokesperson told AFP Wednesday no date has
been proposed for the visit.


SPDC is the formal name for the Myanmar junta, which has refused
to honour a landslide election victory in 1990 by democracy
leader Aung San Suu Kyi's National League for Democracy.


Aung San Suu Kyi, a 61-year-old Nobel Peace Prize winner, has
been under house arrest at her rambling lakeside home in Yangon
for most of the last 17 years despite appeals by the
international community for her release.


The junta has been accused of political repression and human
rights violations by the United States, the European Union,
Amnesty International and other rights groups.


Singapore and Myanmar are members of the Association of Southeast
Asia Nations (ASEAN), which has also increasingly called for
democratic reforms in the reclusive nation.


ASEAN however believes it is better to continue engaging Myanmar
to induce reforms there rather than isolating the country.

