

Offices and factories in Zimbabwe's two main cities were
operating as normal Wednesday on the second day of a 48-hour
strike called by the main labour organisation over the deepening
economic crisis.


The first day of the job boycott on Tuesday was only partially
observed and even more workers appeared to have shunned the
stayaway call on the second day of the stoppage organised by the
Zimbabwe Congress of Trade Unions (ZCTU).


Many workers have expressed sympathy with the ZCTU push for
higher wages and working conditions but say they can ill afford
to forsake part of their pay or risk losing their jobs with 80
percent of the population unemployed.


"If I had a choice I would have heeded the strike call but our
management said we risked losing part of our wages if we didn't
come to work," said Patricia Gumbo, a bank teller in Harare's
Southerton industrial area.


Military helicopters hovered over the populous Chitungwiza
township, a known political hotbed, on the second day of the
strike but the numbers of police patrolling the streets were
fewer than on Tuesday.


The ZCTU, formerly led by chief opposition leader Morgan
Tsvangirai, demanded that government take steps to rein in
inflation which stood at 1,730 percent in March, reduce tax for
low-income earners and provide free antiretroviral drugs for
people living with HIV and AIDS.


AFP correspondents in central Harare said full bus services were
running while post offices, banks, government offices, shops were
all open while there were fewer police patrolling the streets.


In the second city of Bulawayo most shops and offices were open
while few factories which temporarily closed on Tuesday were
operating.


Previous street protests planned by the labour union over the
mounting economic crisis have been crushed by security forces.

