

NYSE Euronext said Wednesday that the newly merged stock market
operator has a market value of 19.32 billion euros (25.81 billion
dollars), making it the world's largest listed exchange group,
based on a 75-euro opening price for the combined share on
Euronext Paris.


"NYSE Euronext is the global leader and we have significant
business opportunities ahead of us," John Thain, the group's
chief executive officer, said in a statement.


"We have 78 of top 100 largest companies in the world listed on
NYSE Euronext markets, and we will continue to expand our global
footprint and offer our customers a wider variety of trading
products and services.


"As capital markets around the world consolidate, NYSE Euronext
will play a central role in the development and definition of the
new global marketplace," he said.


The new leviathan which was created in late March, brings markets
in New York, Paris, Brussels, Amsterdam and Lisbon under one
group and also includes the Liffe financial futures market in
London.


The NYSE and Euronext hope that by coming under one roof, they
will be able to increase the amount of their business as each
will be open to customers of the other.


Jean-Francois Theodore, deputy chief executive, said Wednesday
that the creation of NYSE Euronext would open the way for all
participants to trade a broader range of products across extended
time zones using harmonized trading platforms.


In morning Paris trades, NYSE Euronext shares had gained 3.40
percent to 74.15 euros, while the CAC-40 index was essentially
flat overall.

