

A Siemens board member who was arrested last week as part of a
probe into bribery allegations was released on Wednesday, a
spokesman for the German engineering giant said.


"The arrest warrant has been lifted" against Johannes Feldmayer,
and the board member -- who has been suspended from his duties --
has already left the detention centre in Bamberg, south Germany,
where he had been held since last Tuesday, the Siemens spokesman
said.


Feldmayer is suspected of paying 15-20 million euros (20-26
million dollars) in bogus consultancy fees over a number of years
to Wilhelm Schelsky, head of the tiny AUB labour union.


The alleged aim of the payments was to build up the union into a
sort of counterweight to the all-powerful IG Metall labour union.


IG Metall has subsequently filed a lawsuit against Siemens in the
matter, accusing management of attempting to influence elections
to the works council or the work of council members.


Siemens' former finance chief, Karl-Hermann Baumann, is also
being investigated in the matter.


At the same time, Siemens is also engulfed in a massive slush-
fund scandal, where prosecutors allege that company managers
siphoned off hundreds of millions of euros in company money to
obtain foreign contracts.


Prosecutors last week said they had arrested two more current and
former managers in connection with the matter following a series
of high-profile arrests at the end of last year, including the
former head of Siemens' telecoms division, Thomas Ganswindt.


Prosecutors allege that the employees concerned are suspected of
collaborating to open slush fund accounts abroad and of operating
a system to embezzle company money.

