

Landmines scattered across Sudan are still killing people and
hampering peace and humanitarian efforts in Africa's largest
country despite an end to civil war, UN agencies said on
Wednesday.


"Landmines, unexploded ordnance (UXO) and explosive remnants of
war (ERW) continue to kill and maim people in Sudan every year,"
the United Nations Mine Action Office said in a statement marking
international mine awareness day.


A key part of Sudan's peace agreement which ended 21 years of
civil war with the south is the return of displaced people, the
delivery of aid and economic development, all of which are
hindered by the mines.


UN agencies, which run the world's largest humanitarian operation
in Sudan, reiterated their commitment to eradicating landmines,
which affect 21 of the vast country's 26 states.


The worst-affected part is the south, where landmines threaten
the thousands of people trickling back to their country after the
civil war.


An estimated four million people were displaced by the north-
south war, which ended in January 2005 with a peace agreement
between Khartoum and the Sudan People's Liberation Movement.


The former foes now sit in a national unity government but the UN
warned that landmines "ultimately hinder the smooth
implementation of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement."


Sudan's minister of state for internal affairs, Aliu Ayang,
described the landmine issue during a recent workshop as "a time
bomb" threatening the most impoverished communities.


According to a recent statement issued by the United Nations in
southern Sudan, landmines and unexploded ordnance have caused
2,390 casualties in that area over the past five years.

