

EU Trade Commissioner Peter Mandelson voiced high hopes Wednesday
for progress in crunch WTO talks with ministers from the Brazil,
India and the United States later this month in New Delhi.


"These talks are timely and important. If we are to use the
remaining window of opportunity open to us, we need to intensify
and accelerate the process of negotiation," Mandelson said.


"If we fail, Doha's prospects for this year will be lost," he
added


Ministers from four key trading powers in the World Trade
Organisation will meet in New Delhi on April 11 and 12 to try to
try to broker a deal on opening up farm trade as part of the so-
called Doha round of free-trade negotiations.


Last month diplomats in Geneva said the ministers would focus on
agriculture in bilateral meetings and possibly in four-way talks.
Ministers from Australia and Japan were expected to join them
later.


Together the six countries represent most of the conflicting
interests in the troubled five-year round of negotiations on
agriculture: rich and poor nations, economies that rely heavily
on farm subsidies, major farm exporters and net importers.


The deadlock over attempts to cut subsidies and import tariffs on
farm products is regarded as a major stumbling block in the Doha
round of talks on expanding free and fair trade, which also
covers industrial goods and services.


The 150 WTO members relaunched negotiations earlier this year in
a race to find a compromise before key domestic legislative
changes in the world's top trading power, the United States,
hamper the talks even further.

