

Billionaire Russian-Israeli businessman and aspiring politician
Arkadi Gaydamak has bought a controlling stake in a prominent
real estate company, an Israeli newspaper reported Wednesday.


Gaydamak's 580 million shekel (140 million dollar) acquisition of
the stake in Ocif Investment and Development marks the first time
the controversial and corruption-tainted billionaire has invested
in the Tel Aviv stock market.


The Haaretz newspaper said Gaydamak paid double the market value
for his 53 percent stake in Ocif which has large real estate
holdings as well as investments in high tech, communications and
infrastructure.


It described the purchase as an attempt by Gaydamak to burnish
his image six weeks after the mogul took his first step into
Israel's turbulent political world by unveiling his "Social
Justice" movement.


"Gaydamak is trying to mold himself a new image as a respectable
businessman who operates within the national consenus," the
newspaper said.


The 54-year-old businessman is hugely popular within the
country's 20 percent Russian minority and is a close political
ally of former prime minister and right-wing opposition leader
Benjamin Netanyahu.


Gaydamak also owns Israeli football and basketball clubs. He
rocketed into the public eye during last year's war in Lebanon
with a campaign to aid residents of Israel's north who fled their
homes beneath a barrage of Hezbollah rocket fire.


But he has also been dogged by money laundering allegations in
Israel and high- profile accusations of international fraud. In
2000, judges in Paris issued an arrest warrant for Gaydamak as
part of an inquiry into Angolan weapons smuggling.

