

The managing director of France's national rail company SNCF said
Wednesday that competition would play a leading role when it
replaces its high-speed trains in 2013, with Canadian, French and
German groups in the running.


Guillaume Pepy made the remarks on BFM radio a day after a train
built by the French company Alstom set a world speed record on
rails of 574.8 kilometers (357.2 miles) per hour.


SNCF would "launch a call for candidates and then a tender for
the future TGV, which will be delivered starting in 2013-2014,"
Pepy said, using the French acronym for "train a grande vitesse,"
or high-speed train.


"Fortunately, in Europe, there are tenders and competition will
play a role," the rail executive added. Alstom has played a
leading role along with SNCF to date in developing cutting-edge
high-speed trains.


Pepy gave no details on how much the contract would be worth, but
the French daily Le Figaro estimated the SNCF would spend between
seven and nine billion euros (9.3-12.0 billion dollars) to renew
its fleet of trains.


All of the existing French TGV's were built by Alstom, the first
of which entered service in 1981.


For the next generation, Pepy said: "Alstom will have its
product, which is called the AGV, and there there will be other
products by other companies, no doubt Siemens, no doubt
Bombardier, and the best value will win."


The German and Canadian engineering groups are, along with
Kawasaki Heavy Industries of Japan, also world leaders in high-
speed rail technology.


Alstom is now developing a train known as the AGV, which has
motors integrated under passenger carriages instead of just at
each end, and hopes to offer it commercially in 2009.


According to Pepy, the deciding factor in SNCF's decision on its
future supplier will be "system reliability, with a goal of no
breakdowns."

