

Europe's major stock markets stablized on Wednesday as falling
crude oil prices hit energy stocks, offsetting a bright
performance overnight in New York and earlier in Tokyo, dealers
said.


In late morning European trade, London's FTSE 100 index of
leading shares sagged 0.14 percent to 6,357.50 points, in Paris
the CAC 40 eased 0.03 percent to 5,710.39 points, while
Frankfurt's DAX 30 added 0.22 percent to 7,060.73.


The DJ Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone blue chip shares rose 0.11
percent to 4,251.13.


The euro stood at 1.3353 dollars.


Wall Street shares had powered higher Tuesday as crude oil prices
fell and amid a hint of some improvement in the troubled US
housing market.


Lower oil prices reduce company costs but hurt energy majors,
whose profits decline.


Crude oil prices in London and New York fell further Wednesday on
hopes that Britain and major crude producer Iran would find a
diplomatic solution to a stand-off sparked by Tehran's detention
of 15 British sailors.


In London, shares in British energy giant BP sank 0.82 percent to
544.5 pence and rival BG Group lost 0.55 percent to 728.5 pence.


In Paris, oil and gas group Total slipped 0.53 percent to 52.47
euros.


Meanwhile, NYSE Euronext said Wednesday that the newly merged
stock market operator has a market value of 19.32 billion euros
(25.81 billion dollars), making it the world's largest listed
exchange group, based on a 75.61-euro initial reference price for
the combined share on Euronext Paris.


The new leviathan which was created in late March, brings markets
in New York, Paris, Brussels, Amsterdam and Lisbon under one
group and also includes the Liffe financial futures market in
London.


In morning Paris trades, NYSE Euronext shares fell 1.93 percent
to 74.10 euros.


Elsewhere, Deutsche Boerse jumped 1.71 percent to 173.92 euros
after a bullish trading update from the operator of the Frankfurt
stock exchange.


In US deals on Tuesday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average rallied
1.03 percent to 12,510.30 and the Nasdaq composite leapt 1.16
percent to 2,450.33.


The Standard and Poor's 500 broad-market index rose 0.93 percent
to 1,437.41.


In Asia on Wednesday, the Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index
of leading shares rallied for a second day, jumping 1.74 percent
to finish at 17,544.09 points, as investors cheered a weaker yen
and US stock gains overnight.


Hong Kong's key Hang Seng Index closed up 1.03 percent at
20,209.71 points.

