

"Talking" closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras which allow
operators to shout at people behaving badly are to be installed
across England, the government announced Wednesday.


The scheme lets local council workers in a control centre monitor
pictures from the cameras and talk to them if they feel they are
doing something wrong.


The cameras were piloted in Middlesbrough, north-east England,
where they have been used to reprimand vandals and litter bugs,
but now loudspeakers are being fitted to cameras in another 20
areas.


Britain has some 4.2 million CCTV cameras and the government's
privacy watchdog, Information Commissioner Richard Thomas, warned
last year that the nation risks "sleep-walking into a
surveillance society".


Human rights group Privacy International says Britain is the
worst country in the European Union at protecting individuals'
privacy, citing "endemic surveillance".


And a powerful group of lawmakers -- the House of Commons home
affairs select committee -- is to hold an inquiry into the extent
of surveillance in Britain this year.


The "talking CCTV" move comes as Prime Minister Tony Blair's
administration attempts to impose a "respect agenda" by cracking
down on petty anti-social behaviour.


Home Secretary John Reid defended the scheme, saying it was aimed
at "the small minority who think it is acceptable to litter our
streets, vandalise our communities and damage our properties."


Reid added that schools in many areas were holding competitions
for children to become the "voice" of CCTV cameras.


The scheme is likely to cost around 500,000 pounds (740,000
euros, 988,000 dollars).

