

Afghanistan may seek to copy micro-credit programmes pioneered by
Bangladesh's Grameen Bank to help alleviate crushing poverty in
the war-shattered nation, officials said Wednesday.


Afgan President Hamid Karzai sought details of the loan scheme
during a meeting with Fakhruddin Ahmed, chief of Bangladesh's
caretaker government, on the sidelines of a summit of South Asian
nations in New Delhi late on Tuesday.


Karzai "was very impressed with our Grameen Bank and he showed
interest in its possible replication," said Bangladesh government
spokesman Syed Fahim Munaim.


Afghanistan was officially accepted on Tuesday as the eighth
member of the South Asian Association of Region Cooperation
(SAARC) whose two-day meeting was slated to wrap late on
Wednesday.


"The Afghan leader said Afghanistan has been ruined (by war) and
needed re- building and asked if Bangladesh could help,
especially in the social sector as it had a skilled labour
force," Munaim told reporters.


An aide to Karzai said Afghanistan already had some micro-
financing programmes.


But he said the Grameen Bank "could be an answer" in helping
relieve conditions of desperate poverty in the country where an
estimated 30 million people live.


Afghanistan's infrastructure has been almost completely
devastated by a series of wars.


Launched in 1976, the Grameen Bank loans money to poor people to
buy their own tools and equipment -- cutting out the middlemen
and helping transform their lives through self-employment.


Grameen alone has given such loans to more than six million
people and the model has been replicated in more than 40 nations.

