

Friends and family will pay final tribute to late Pakistan and
former South African cricket coach Bob Woolmer at a memorial
service Wednesday, as a murder inquiry prevents his body from
being flown back.


The service is to be held in Woolmer's adopted hometown at the
Wynberg Boys high school, which his sons Dale and Russell
attended, and where the coach discovered the record-breaking
Proteas all-rounder Jacques Kallis as a schoolboy.


Organisers said speakers at the memorial would include former
South African fast bowler Allan Donald and Tim Noakes of the
Sport Science Institute of South Africa with whom Woolmer co-
authored a book on the art and science of cricket.


"The service will be led by Reverend Jerome Francis who was
coached by Bob  from the age of 11," said a statement issued on
behalf of Woolmer's family.


His widow, Gill, lives in Pinelands in Cape Town.


Woolmer was found dead, presumed strangled, in his Jamaican hotel
room on March 18, one day after Pakistan were dramatically ousted
from the cricket World Cup following a shock defeat to minnows
Ireland.


His death has sparked one of the most complex murder
investigations in Jamaican history and has triggered speculation
about possible links to match-fixing and illegal betting in
cricket.


Around 50 officers are attempting to track down hundreds of
potential witnesses who were either visiting or staying at
Kingston's Pegasus Hotel in the days leading up to Woolmer's
death.


Woolmer's remains are to be cremated in a private family ceremony
once returned to South Africa by investigators.

