

US equity fund Lone Star, which has been beset by legal problems
since buying a South Korean bank in 2003, announced Wednesday it
is selling two of its other assets in the country.


Lone Star Funds said it is putting up for sale Kukdong
Engineering and Construction along with Star Lease, which leases
cars and medical equipment.


Local media speculated the fund may be poised to exit the country
following its legal woes over the purchase of Korea Exchange Bank
(KEB).


Lone Star said, however, that it "is still committed to Korea and
retains several other significant assets in Korea."


Kukdong and Star Lease were acquired following court receivership
and private debt workout, respectively.


"As the companies have been turned around, it is now time for
them to be taken to the next level by a more strategic buyer,"
said Lone Star chairman John Grayken in the statement.


The companies, he said, had been rescued with very few job
losses.


Lone Star gave no indication of the price being sought.


Dutch bank ABN Amro is the lead advisor for the both sales.


Last week a South Korean parliamentary panel called for Lone
Star's takeover of KEB to be cancelled after a state audit body
said the bank's losses had been deliberately inflated to undercut
its purchase price.


The US fund has rejected the findings.


Prosecutors have investigated Lone Star, among others, for
allegedly conspiring with local officials to drive down the
bank's price.


Prosecutors also accuse Lone Star officials and others of
manipulating the share price of KEB's separate credit card unit
so it could also be acquired cheaply by the bank.


In November, Lone Star cancelled a 7.4 billion dollar deal to
sell KEB to Kookmin Bank after judges granted prosecutors arrest
warrants for two US-based executives of the fund.


The US fund says the cases against it are driven by latent
hostility to foreign investors.

