

A cargo ship escaped seizure at Somalia's main port in the
restive capital Mogadishu, three days after pirates captured
another vessel in the same harbour, a maritime official said
Wednesday.


Gunmen in speed boats opened fire at the MV Nishan, a UAE-
registered vessel, late Tuesday as it anchored at Mogadishu port,
said Andrew Mwangura of the Kenyan chapter of the Seafarers'
Assistance Programme.


"The ship was anchoring when two boats approached and gunmen
opened fire. The captain contacted port authorities who sent in
speed boats" to rescue it, Mwangura told AFP.


The whereabouts of the vessel was unknown after it fled out to
sea, Mwangura added.


On Sunday, pirates hijacked an Indian cargo ship in Mogadishu
port and later forced it to sail north up the coast of Somalia.


Mwangura said there was no word on the ship and its 14-member
crew Wednesday, after pirates demanded an unspecified ransom from
the ship's agents.


Meanwhile a third ship is still missing after being seized on
February 25.


The UN-chartered MV Rozen was hijacked with its 12-member crew
and has since been held in waters off Somalia's northeastern
semi-autonomous Puntland region.


Mwangura said negotiations to secure the ship's release had been
hampered by a recent surge in fighting in Mogadishu.


Waters off the unpatrolled 3,700-kilometer (2,300-mile) Somali
coastline saw scores of pirate attacks between March 2005 and
June last year, but these stopped during six months of strict
Islamist rule of south and central Somalia.


Remnants of the Islamists and clan fighters have been battling
government forces and their Ethiopian backers since the start of
the year.

