

UN chief mediator Martti Ahtisaari was given a "mission
impossible" on finding a solution to the breakaway Serbian
province of Kosovo, Bulgarian Prime Minister Sergei Stanishev
said Wednesday.


"Ahtisaari was given a mission impossible from the start, that is
to come up with a solution acceptable to two sides with
irreconcilable positions," he said after meeting his Croatian
counterpart Ivo Sanader.


His remarks came after Ahtisaari briefed the UN Security Council
as the 15-member body debated the future status of ethnic
Albanian majority Kosovo for the first time in New York
overnight.


His plan to grant Kosovo internationally supervised independence
has already been backed by Kosovo Albanians, the European Union
and United States, but has been rejected by Serbia and Russia.


Stanishev said that his proposals were "a good basis" to help the
Security Council to find a solution to Kosovo and guarantee
stability in the wider Balkan region.


"For Bulgaria, it is important that a solution for Kosovo would
guarantee stability in the region and would bring it closer to
European standards," said Stanishev.


Croatian Prime Minister Sanader said that Zagreb backed
Ahtisaari's plan even though it does not offer an ideal solution.


"There are no ideal plans in international policy, and both sides
can find shortcomings in Ahtisaari's plan, but at this point it
is the best that could have been achieved," he said.


Kosovo has been administered by a UN mission since mid-1999,
after a NATO bombing campaign ended the brutal crackdown by
Serbian forces against the province's Albanians.


Some 10,000 ethnic Albanians died and hundreds of thousands fled
Kosovo during the 1998-1999 conflict.

