

Chinese share prices edged up marginally Wednesday to make it
another record finish as profit-taking took the market off early
highs, dealers said.


They said auto and machinery stocks attracted further support but
after the recent run of sustained gains, it was no surprise that
some investors wanted to take money off the table.


Volumes continued to pick up on fresh fund inflows, inspiring
confidence that further gains can be made even from these record
levels.


The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index, which covers both A- and
B-shares, closed up 0.24 points at 3,291.54, a new closing high,
on turnover of 113.26 billion yuan (14.61 billion dollars).


The Shanghai A-share Index was up 0.05 points at 3,459.51 on
turnover of 112.75 billion yuan and the Shenzhen A-share Index
added 9.51 points or 1.06 percent to 903.08, also a record, on
turnover of 59.75 billion yuan.


"The market saw some profit-taking in late afternoon but losses
were offset by fresh capital coming in ... and this is a sign
that buying interest remains strong," said Wang Sai, an analyst
at Wanguo Consulting.


Dealers said investors are confident of more gains to come as the
market shows no fear at these record levels, with late February's
massive sell-off seemingly forgotten.


Concerns that the authorities could take further steps to cool
both the economy and the market have also faded into the
background but investors remain mindful of that possibility.


"The market is likely to maintain this upward momentum on
continued fund inflows as long as the regulator does not attempt
to control it by issuing new polices (aimed at reining in
investment)," said Cao Yan, an analyst at Soochow Securities
said.


Machinery manufacturers were once again in focus, with Shaanxi
Construction Machinery was up its 10 percent daily limit at 12.55
yuan. Shanghai Diesel Engine added 1.12 yuan or 8.96 percent at
13.62.


Automakers were also in favor with Beiqi Foton Motor up 0.45 yuan
or 6.35 percent at 7.54 and Shanghai Automotive adding 0.68 yuan
or 5.16 percent at 13.86.


Huaneng Power International rose 0.05 yuan or 0.54 percent at
9.39 after reporting that its 2006 net profit rose 16.5 percent.


China Vanke, the country's top property developer, put on 0.11
yuan or 0.62 percent at 17.79 after forecasting a 50-60 percent
increase in its first quarter net profit.


Steelmakers were under pressure from profit-taking with Inner
Mongolia Baotou Steel Union down 0.10 yuan or 1.68 percent at
5.85.


Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC), the mainland's
largest commercial bank by assets, was down 0.09 yuan or 1.60
percent at 5.53 after 2006 results fell short of expectations.


The Shanghai B-share Index was up 1.66 points or 0.92 percent to
182.89 on turnover of 508.41 million US dollars and the Shenzhen
B-share Index rose 1.97 points or 0.37 percent at 536.0 on
turnover of 639.78 million Hong Kong dollars (82.55 million US
dollars).

