

The first volume of a work on Jesus written by Pope Benedict XVI
will be published this month on the pope's 80th birthday, the
Vatican announced on Wednesday.


"Jesus of Nazareth" is the first of two volumes that covers the
period between Jesus's baptism to the Transfiguration which the
gospels describe as the moment Jesus spoke with Moses and Elijah,
and is called "Son" by God.


Benedict, a respected theologian, explains in the preface which
was published last year, that the book "is absolutely not a
master's thesis but merely the expression of my personal research
into the face of the Lord".


He said he began writing the book in the summer of 2003 when he
was still Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger and that he has continued
work on it during "all (his) free time" since being elected pope
in April 2005.


The book will be released simultaneously in Italy, Germany and
Poland. A special press conference will also be held at the
Vatican on the day by Cardinal Christoph Schonborn, the
archbishop of Vienna.


Extracts of the book were carried by the Italian Corriere della
Sera daily on Wednesday and are due out in Germany in Thursday's
edition of Die Zeit ahead of the April 16 launch date.


In one on the parable of the Good Samaritan, the pope writes
about the "globalised society" and how Africans were "raped and
pillaged" materially and spiritually by Western "life-style".


He also criticises Karl Marx, for having failed to understand the
alienation of man, despite having railed against it, since "he
only argues his case in material terms."

