

Irish Prime Minister Bertie Ahern and Northern Ireland's First
Minister-in- waiting Dr Ian Paisley shook hands in public for the
first time on Wednesday, when they met in Dublin for informal
talks.


Ahern and Paisley both voiced hope for the future as the
firebrand Protestant Democratic Unionist party (DUP) leader
prepares to head a power-sharing administration in Belfast on
May.


"I trust that old barriers and threats will be removed day-by-
day," Paisley said. "We look forward to future meetings and trust
that old suspicions and discord may be buried under the prospect
of mutual and respectful cooperation."


It was all smiles and banter and another handshake as the two
leaders read prepared statements after their 90 minute meeting
and both underlined mutual respect and benefits and generous co-
operation in the future.


Ahern said it was a time of unprecedented hope for Northern
Ireland.


"We have had a very businesslike, a very friendly discussion on a
range of matters of mutual interest," Ahern said.


"At this time in our history we must do our best to put behind us
the terrible wounds of our past and work together to build as new
relationship between our two traditions.


"I fervently believe that we move on from here in a new spirit of
friendship. The future for this island has never been brighter."


In an accord last month the DUP and the Catholic Sinn Fein, the
political wing of the Irish Republican Army, agreed to share
power.


Long-time arch foes Paisley and leader of Sinn Fein Gerry Adams
held their first ever face-to-face meeting to clinch the deal but
there was no public handshake.


Paisley had shaken hands with Ahern in private before at
negotiations in St Andrews in Scotland last year when the Irish
leader presented Paisley and his wife with a bowl carved from a
walnut tree from the site of the Battle of the Boyne in the
Republic to mark their 50th wedding anniversary.

