

US House speaker Nancy Pelosi said on Wednesday that Syrian
President Bashar al- Assad had assured her he was ready for peace
talks with archfoe Israel.


She also said she had transmitted a message from Israeli Prime
Minister Ehud Olmert in which he said he was ready to resume
peace talks, which broke off in 2000 largely over the fate of the
strategic Golan Heights.


"We were very pleased with the reassurances we received from the
president that he was ready to resume the peace process," she
told reporters after her meeting with Assad that has infuriated
the White House.


"He's ready to engage in negotiations (for) peace with Israel."


Pelosi said she also raised her "concern" about alleged support
for militant groups Hamas and Hezbollah and "to the fighters
crossing the borders and threatening" US soldiers and Iraqi
civilians in neighbouring Iraq.


"We expressed our concern to Syria" about its alleged connections
with Hezbollah and Hamas and "our concerns about the soldiers
kidnapped by Hezbollah and Hamas."


The Lebanese Shiite movement Hezbollah touched off a devastating
34-day war with Israel last summer after capturing two soldiers
in a cross-border raid, while gunmen linked to Hamas were
involved in the capture of another Israeli soldier at an army
post on the Gaza border.


A member of Pelosi's delegation, Republican Representative David
Hobson, said the talks with the Syrian leadership were a "candid
dialogue."


"The visit in Syria transcends our conviction that dialogue with
Syria was necessary and useful," he said.


Israel captured the Golan Heights in 1967 and annexed the
strategic plateau in 1981.

