

Sri Lankan warplanes bombed and destroyed a key Tamil Tiger naval
base in the island's northeast on Wednesday, the defence ministry
said.


Israeli-built Kfir jets pounded the Liberation Tigers of Tamil
Eelam (LTTE) base at Puthukkudiyiruppu, the ministry said in a
statement.


There was no immediate reaction from the Tigers. Sri Lankan
warplanes have been routinely bombing suspected rebel positions
in the island's northeast since April last year as part of a new
wave of violence.


"The base was completely destroyed, including its fuel storage
facilities which burst into massive flames," the statement said.
"The headquarter complex and many vehicles parked were also
destroyed due to the strike."


The Tiger rebels on Tuesday said that the air force had bombed
the same area that day and wounded four civilians who were
admitted to the Puthukkudiyiruppu hospital.


The latest air raid came as the defence ministry announced that
troops had  shot dead six Tamil Tiger rebels in clashes in the
island's embattled northern and eastern regions on Tuesday.


Four members of the LTTE were shot dead in two separate incidents
in the Jaffna peninsula, the ministry said.


It said two more Tiger gunmen were shot dead in the eastern
district of Ampara, the scene of a bus bombing on Monday that
left 16 people dead.


There were no reports of casualties among troops.


The Tamil rebels have waged a 35-year campaign for independence
that has claimed more than 60,000 lives.


More than 4,000 people have been killed in the latest upsurge of
fighting that began in December 2005 despite a truce arranged in
2002.

