

Traditional thinking about the Christian crucifixion is
"repulsive" and makes God look like a "psychopath," a senior
Church of England clergyman said in a programme to be broadcast
Wednesday.


The Very Reverend Jeffrey John, the Dean of St Albans in southern
England, was discussing the Christian theory of penal
substitution, which argues that God sent Christ to Earth to be
punished for the sins of mankind.


John's comments came in a BBC radio programme marking Lent, the
period which Christians believe symbolises 40 days spent by Jesus
in the wilderness before Easter, when he was resurrected after
his crucifixion.


"Even at the age of 10, I thought this explanation was pretty
repulsive as well as nonsensical," he said.


"What sort of God was this, getting so angry with the world and
the people he created and then, to calm himself down, demanding
the blood of his own son?


"And anyway, why should God forgive us through punishing somebody
else?


"It was worse than illogical, it was insane. It made God sound
like a psychopath. If any human being behaved like this, we'd say
they were a monster.


"Well, I haven't changed my mind since. That explanation of the
cross just doesn't work but sadly, it's one that's still all too
often preached."


In 2003, John was nominated to be the Bishop of Reading in
southern England but rejected the post amid controversy over his
homosexuality.


He was the first openly gay man to be nominated for such a senior
role.

