

The European Union offered on Wednesday to scrap all quotas and
tariffs on exports from African, Caribbean and Pacific nations as
part of talks on new trade pacts, the European Commission said.


The EU's executive arm and the 78-nation ACP group are in the
midst of tough negotiations for new trade agreements which they
are struggling to conclude before the end of the year.


Under the new offer, all EU quotas and tariffs on ACP goods would
be lifted from the signing of an agreement while rice and sugar
would be phased in over time.


The offer would not cover South Africa which the Commission said
produces "a number of globally competitive products."


Currently, already 97 percent of EU imports from ACP countries do
not face tariff or quotas or only at very low levels.


"Trade and development for ACP countries is about much more than
just access to the European market," EU Trade Commissioner Peter
Mandelson said.


"But by removing all remaining tariffs and quotas for all
African, Caribbean and Pacific countries we will create the best
possible opportunities for these economies," he added.


The ACP group, made up mostly of former European colonies, have
benefitted from preferential access to EU markets since the
signing of the Lome accord in 1975.


But other equally poor countries, mostly in Latin America, have
contested the ACPs' preferential treatment and have won backing
from the World Trade Organisation.


In 2001, the world trade referee gave the EU until the end of
this year to come up with a new framework that would be more
compatible with international rules of commerce.


After their WTO defeat, the Europeans and the ACP opened talks in
2002 for new so-called economic partnership agreements, which are
being conducted by regions -- eastern, central and southern
Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific.


But with the year-end deadline looming, there is still a lot of
work to be done.

