

Japanese share prices closed up 1.74 percent on Wednesday,
rallying for a second straight day as gains on Wall Street and a
weaker yen cheered investors, dealers said.


They said buyers were also encouraged by a dip in crude oil
prices on signs of easing tensions between Iran and Britain.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
rose 300.04 points to 17,544.09. The TOPIX index of all issues on
the Tokyo Stock Exchange's first section added 26.20 points or
1.54 percent to 1,730.52.


Gainers overwhelmed decliners 1,443 to 206, with 79 issues flat.


Volume was 2.31 billion shares against 2.34 billion on Tuesday.


Buying interest was spurred by gains on Wall Street on Tuesday
and a weaker yen, said Ryuta Otsuka, strategist at Toyo
Securities.


"In addition, foreign investors, who are finally coming back to
the market, supported the buying," Otsuka said.


"But it is too early to say that the market is back on the upward
trend. It is still in the process of returning to the level
before the end-February world stock market sell-off," he added.


Kazuhiro Takahashi, equity general manager at Daiwa Securities
SMBC, said the market was also helped by the drop in crude oil
prices as tensions eased in the stand-off between Britain and
Iran over captive British military personnel.


"Investors' risk appetite has increased," he said, "This has
softened the yen, helping to make investors more optimistic about
exporters' earnings."


Kenwood Corp jumped nine yen or 5.2 percent to 181 after it said
it will acquire 100 percent of Zetron Inc of the US for an
undisclosed amount to enhance its communication system business.


Fast Retailing surged 590 yen or 6.7 percent to 9,360 after the
company said sales at its 581 domestic Uniqlo-brand casual
clothing outlets had been 7.4 percent higher on a same-store
basis last month than a year earlier.


Among automakers, Isuzu Motors rose 15 yen or 2.5 percent to 614,
Mazda Motor added 17 yen or 2.6 percent to 667 and Honda Motor
advanced 100 yen or 2.4 percent to 4,250.


Electronics shares were also higher. Minebea jumped 45 yen or 6.2
percent to 769, Omron rose 140 yen or 4.6 percent to 3,200,
Elpida Memory gained 170 yen or 3.5 percent to 5,060 and Canon
climbed 170 yen or 2.7 percent to 6,440.


Shares of oil firms declined after crude oil prices dropped.
Inpex Holdings lost 30,000 yen or 2.9 percent to one million,
Nippon Oil declined 11 yen or 1.1 percent to 946 and Cosmo Oil
slipped five yen or 1.0 percent to 494.


On the foreign exchange market, the dollar hovered at one-month
highs against the yen, changing hands for 118.91 after 118.89 in
New York Tuesday.


The euro was at 1.3337 dollars from 1.3329 and at 158.48 yen
after 158.50.

