

Shares in Shinsei Bank rose Wednesday as investors shrugged off a
warning from Japan's first foreign-owned lender of a big loss for
the financial year just ended, dealers said.


Shinsei Bank said Tuesday that it expects a net loss of 58
billion yen (488 million dollars) for the fiscal year ended March
31, having previously forecast a net profit of 40 billion yen.


The bank said it would book a special loss of 101 billion yen to
write down goodwill and impaired assets at its consumer lender
unit, Aplus.


Despite the profit warning, shares in Shinsei bank closed up 11
yen or 1.95 percent at 574, while the benchmark Nikkei-225 index
added 1.74 percent.


Japanese consumer lenders face an uncertain outlook as the
government moves to cap interest rates on consumer loans by 2010.


US banking giant Citigroup has announced a major retreat in
consumer finance in Japan, with the closure of 270 branches and
100 automated loan machines as a result of the new rules.


Shinsei Bank now faces a possible order by Japan's financial
services to submit an alternative restructuring plan.


"In general, if a bank which has received public money misses a
profit target, we have to ask them to submit a more realistic
restructuring plan so that they will be able to return public
money," said an official at Japan's Financial Services Agency.


The government lent 336.8 billion yen (2.9 billion dollars) to
Shinsei bank, not including loans to its forerunner, the Long
Term Credit Bank (LTCB).


LTCB collapsed and was put under state control in 1998. It
emerged from bankruptcy and was sold to a consortium of investors
led by Ripplewood Holdings of the United States in March 2000 for
1.1 billion dollars.

