

New partners could join consortia now bidding for the loss-making
Italian carrier Alitalia, Economic Development Minister Pierluigi
Bersani said on Wednesday.


The presence of new partners in three consortia currently
interested in Alitalia "can not be formally excluded", Bersani
said on the sidelines of a conference.


The comment could could refuel speculation about a possible entry
into the race by Air France-KLM, which has been mentioned by
analysts as a possible ally of the Russian company Aeroflot to
buy the troubled Italian carrier.


The Italian government, which is privatising Alitalia, has a 49.9
percent stake in the airline and plans to sell at least 39.9
percent, which would force the buyer to make an offer for the
rest of the company.


Aeroflot, in partnership with Italian bank Unicredito Italiano,
is one of the bidders to have come forward at the second stage of
the privatisation process.


A second consortium is comprised of Italian bank Mediobanca,
investment fund Texas Pacific Group and privaty equity group
MatlinPatterson.


The third bidder is AP Holding, the holding company of the owner
of Italian airline Air One, Carlo Toto.


Under the privatisation process, normally no new candidate could
enter the race after April 2.


However Aeroflot partner Unicredit suggested on Monday that the
government could accept an easing of the rules.


David Jarach, a professor specialised in air transport at the
Bocconi university in Milan, earlier in the week said that
Aeroflot could in the medium-term link up with Air France and KLM
to take over Alitalia.


Air France and KLM have a cross shareholding link of two percent
with Alitalia and all four companies are members of Skyteam
alliance.


Candidates now have until April 16 to present preliminary offers,
including business plans for the Italian airline.

