

The euro climbed against the dollar and yen on Wednesday on well-
received eurozone data, while the yen struggled on.


The euro rose to 1.3355 dollars in early European trading, from
1.3329 dollars late in New York on Tuesday.


The dollar fell to 118.81 yen in European trade, compared with
118.89 late on Tuesday.


Traders were digesting data that showed growth in the service
sector of the 13 countries that share the euro remained at a high
level in March, despite a loss of steam last month.


The eurozone purchasing managers index (PMI) for the service
sector, compiled by the research group NTC Economics, slipped
marginally to 57.4 points in March from 57.5 in February.


Private economists had forecast an increase to 57.6 points.


Despite the lower level of activity, the vast service sector
continued to show resilience with the forty-fifth consecutive
month of growth, as indicated by a figure over 50.


"Overall, this survey highlights continued strength in the euro
service sector with a tightening labour market and rising
prices," said Audrey Childe-Freeman, economist for the Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce.


She added that the data was consistent with there being at least
one more rate hike from the European Central Bank.


Elsewhere, the yen struggled to recover as players continued to
take advantage of Japan's low interest rates to raise funds to
invest overseas, dealers said.


The dollar gained support from a 0.7 percent rise in US pending
home sales, gains on global stock markets and hopes that the
crisis over the capture of British sailors and marines in Iran
may ease soon, Resona Bank dealer Shigeru Nakane said.


"We believe that there is a possibility that the dollar will
climb above the 119 yen level," he added.


Relatively thin trading and no major fresh news ahead of the
Easter weekend also encouraged foreign exchange players to focus
on interest rate differentials, Nakane said.


In so-called carry trades, investors borrow currencies from
countries with low interest rates, such as the yen, in order to
invest in assets in countries with higher interest rates, such as
Britain or Australia.


Typically, carry trades are detrimental for low-yielding
currencies such as the yen and beneficial for higher yielding
units.


Pressure on the yen eased somewhat after Australia's central bank
left interest rates on hold, despite market speculation of a rate
hike that had lifted the Australian dollar to a 10-year high
against the US unit.


The euro was changing hands at 1.3355 dollars, against 1.3329
dollars on Tuesday, 158.59 yen (158.50), 0.6756 pounds (0.6752)
and 1.6286 Swiss francs (1.6297).


The dollar stood at 118.81 yen (118.89) and 1.2199 Swiss francs
(1.2224).


The pound was being traded at 1.9764 dollars (1.9738).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold advanced to
665.70 dollars per ounce, from 664.25 dollars late on Tuesday.

