

Hostage takers in volatile southern Nigeria released Wednesday
four foreign workers held captive in the oil-rich region,
diplomats and industry officials said.


The freed men were two Lebanese and one Dutch and one British
national.


The Briton was identified as Gordon Gray from Crieff in
Perthshire, who was seized by armed men four days ago from an
offshore rig in the western Niger delta.


A British Foreign Office spokeswoman said Gray, who works as
offshore installation manager with Aberdeen-based Dolphin
Drilling, was "in good health" and had been taken to the British
Deputy High Commission in Lagos.


Meanwhile, an industry source and a member of a militant group in
Port Harcourt, Nigeria's oil capital, both said a Dutch
expatriate worker had also been freed.


The Dutch man, who was not identified, was kidnapped March 23
from Port Harcourt, where he is employed as security manager for
the Nigerian arm of German building company Bilfinger Berger.


A spokesman for the company that employed Gray also said that two
kidnpapped Lebanese nationals had been released at the same time.


It was not immediately clear if all four men had been held
captive by the same group.


Since the start of this year, more than 60 foreigners have been
kidnapped in southern Nigeria, at least as many as were abducted
during the whole of 2006.


The foreigners, most of whom have been released unharmed, were
seized by a mixture of criminal gangs out to make ransom money
and armed groups with a political agenda.


Groups such as the Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger
Delta (MEND), which recently held two Italian hostages for three
months, say they are seeking a fairer distribution of Nigeria's
oil revenues.

