

The European Commission on Tuesday gave airlines six months to
better respect EU laws on passenger rights and threatened to step
up legal action against them.


"Over the next six months, the Commission will carry out checks
in airports to ensure that airline companies are providing
passengers with the information, assistance and compensation
provided under the law," it said in a report.


Two years after the introduction of new rules on compensation for
passengers and assistance for those denied access to a plane or
whose flights are delayed or cancelled, the Commission said some
airlines have found them tough to apply.


While the EU's executive body concedes the measures have been
"imprecise in certain areas", it maintains that they have been
"applied in an inefficient manner in some (EU) member countries."


It said that if things do not improve, the measures could be
changed to "guarantee that the rights of passengers are fully
respected" and that it "reserves the right to intensify
infringement procedures" after six months.


Under rules that came into effect in February 2005, compensation
can run from 250 to 600 euros (320-770 dollars), depending on a
flight's distance, if passengers flights are cancelled or they
are victims of over-booking.


For late flights -- more than two hours for short-haul flights,
three hours for inter-EU country travel and more than four hours
for long-haul flights -- meals, lodging and a means of
communication must be provided if needed.


A study published in November by the European Consumer Centres
Network found that the airlines were badly implementing or
bending the new EU rules.


They highlighted parts which allow carriers to invoke
"exceptional circumstances" such as political crises, strikes or
bad weather, as a reason not to compensate passengers.


The Commission also complained that airline passengers often had
to wait a long time to receive any answer to demands for
compensation.

