

Nine more people have been abducted in Iraq's flashpoint province
of Diyala, police said on Tuesday, a day after the bodies of 21
Shiite workers snatched in similar circumstances were uncovered.


The nine workers for a provincial electrical company were
kidnapped at gunpoint on their way home from work on Monday near
the Shiite town of Khalis, often used as a killing ground by
presumed Sunni extremists.


The 21 Shiites, whose bodies were found on Monday, were also
kidnapped on their way back from work after gunmen ambushed their
minibuses on the main road out of Baghdad to Diyala, the most
dangerous area in Iraq after Baghdad.


Police in Diyala also said four insurgents were killed in Khalis
on Tuesday when a car bomb they were intending to blow up
detonated by accident. Two cars were gutted in the blast, police
said.


Elsewhere, attacks killed three Iraqi civilians in Baghdad and
three policemen in other cities, security officials said.


Two students at a pharmacy college travelling in a car through
the southwestern Baghdad district of Saydiya were killed when a
bomb exploded.


Another civilian was killed when a second roadside bomb exploded
in the heart of the Al-Kubaisi shopping centre in Zafaraniya, in
southern Baghdad.


Gunmen shot dead one policeman in an eastern district of the
northern oil city of Kirkuk, another in the city of Tikrit, and a
third policeman in Kut, south of Baghdad, separate police sources
said.


Insurgents and sectarian killers have increasingly focused their
efforts outside Baghdad where a massive US-Iraqi security
crackdown, now into a seventh week, has seen American officials
boast about signs of progress.

