

A fragile calm held in the Somali capital for a second day
Tuesday, after the worst fighting in more than 15 years, as
Somali clan elders prepared to meet with Ethiopian forces to
discuss a truce.


Four days of heavy battles that began Thursday left more than 120
people dead and forced thousands to flee, after an Ethiopian
offensive on clan fighters and Islamist rebels in Mogadishu.


Elders from the capital's dominant Hawiye clan said they had
formed a committee of 11 to talk with Ethiopian commanders
Tuesday, after so far failing in their efforts to maintain a
truce.


Most of the Islamist insurgents involved in fighting in Mogadishu
are drawn from the Hawiye clan.


The latest peace initiative comes as a US-backed panel, the
International Contact Group on Somalia, met in Cairo to discuss
the latest flare-up of violence that has raised the stakes in the
Somali conflict.


Meanwhile, Mogadishu residents said they feared fresh fighting as
heavily-armed Ethiopian and Somali troops faced off with
insurgents in southern Mogadishu, the scene of the fiercest
fighting that has claimed hundreds of lives since the start of
the year.


"We see insurgents making reinforcements and Ethiopian troops
still holding their positions. With this, we fear that there
might be new fighting," Sabumo Haji Mumin, a resident of Tawfig
neighbourhood, told AFP.


The relative calm allowed residents remaining in the city to join
thousands fleeing to safer locations.


"People who were trapped in Mogadishu are fleeing today," Mumin
said.


The United Nations estimates that around 100,000 people have fled
the coastal city since February.


The government is struggling to pacify Mogadishu ahead of a
National Reconciliation Conference, planned to start April 16,
despite threats of disruption by hardline Islamists.

