

Chinese share prices rose 1.19 percent Tuesday for another record
finish on continued strong fund inflows, with property and
machinery stocks gaining ground, dealers said.


They said the increase turnover indicated fresh money was coming
into the market again while trade remained very healthy, if not
at the levels seen last week.


However, wWith the market having posted a series of record
performances over the past two weeks, some cautioned that a
correction could be in store as investors take profits,
especially ahead of the launch of index futures.


Such futures contracts are used to leverage and hedge risk in
established bourses but they can also increase volatility as
institutions typically try to push the market in their favour as
the contracts mature.


The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index, which covers both A- and
B-shares, closed up 38.70 points at 3,291.30, a new closing high,
on turnover of 107.14 billion yuan (13.82 billion dollars).


The Shanghai A-share Index was up 40.73 points or 1.19 percent at
3,459.46 on turnover of 106.62 billion yuan and the Shenzhen
A-share Index added 11.69 points or 1.33 percent at 893.57, also
a record high, on turnover of 57.39 billion yuan.


"The increased turnover indicates that fresh capital has been
actively building positions after the key index continued to hit
record highs, with second-tier blue chips in favor on rotational
interest," said Wang Mingzhi, an analyst at GF Securities.


Dealers said that after the recent record-breaking performance,
there is a risk of a short-term correction.


"Investors need to be cautious as there will be corrections given
the current euphoria and the market could see bigger fluctuations
ahead of the launching of index futures," said Shen Jun, an
analyst at Shangzhenglian Consulting.


Real estate developers and machinery manufacturers were in demand
after posting solid earnings growth in 2006, dealers said.


Shanghai Lujiazui Finance Trade Zone Development was up 1.31 yuan
or 6.49 percent at 21.48 and Shanghai Jinqiao Export Processing
Zone Development added 0.65 yuan or 4.30 percent at 15.76.


Hudong Heavy Machinery was up its 10 percent daily limit at 89.10
yuan and Guangzhou Shipyard International was up 1.96 yuan or
7.40 percent at 28.45.


CAMC Engineering jumped 1.31 yuan or 5.89 percent at 23.56 after
winning a pipeline contract in Venezuela worth 108 million
dollars.


China Petroleum Chemical Corp (Sinopec) was up 0.24 yuan or 2.38
percent at 10.34 after receiving approval to build a 14.7 billion
yuan petrochemical plant in Wuhan, the first such large-scale
project in central China.


Kweichow Moutai, China's top liquor maker, was up 0.99 yuan or
1.05 percent at 94.88 after its 2006 results.


The Shanghai B-share Index was up 1.72 points or 0.96 percent to
181.23 on turnover of 516.45 million US dollars and the Shenzhen
B-share Index rose 5.11 points or 0.97 percent at 534.03 on
turnover of 529.44 million Hong Kong dollars (68.31 million US
dollars).

