

Unions at the French plants of European aircraft manufacturer
Airbus were to stage a half-day strike Tuesday in protest at the
group's controversial restructuring plan.


The CGT and Force Ouvriere unions said they had called on workers
to down tools from 09:00 am to 1:00 pm (0700 GMT to 1100 GMT) on
Tuesday, the eve of a meeting of the company's European works
council.


Under the Power8 restructuring plan announced by Airbus at the
end of February, the group plans to shed 10,000 jobs across
Europe to save five billion euros (6.6 billion dollars) by 2010.


"We are treating (the works council) with caution and we intend
to keep up the pressure," Force Ouvriere's representative on the
works council Jean-Francois Knepper told AFP on Monday.


"The management will present the financial situation of Airbus
and EADS as well as the ramping up of Power8," Knepper added.


But two minority unions, the CFE-CGC and the CFTC, decided not to
join the action, warning that taking a hardline now could hurt
the company.


"It is too early to launch a tough movement. We do not yet know
the details of Power8. We prefer to discuss each point first,"
said Denis Bertrand of the CFE- CGC.


At the CFTC, Gilbert Plo added: "Airbus cannot allow itself a
tough movement now that would block production. We do not want to
slam the door shut on talks."


On March 6, some 15,000 Airbus workers protested in Toulouse,
where Airbus is headquartered, along with 2,000 at each of the
plants at Nantes, Saint Nazaire and Meaulte.


Ten days later, mass demonstrations took place in northern
Germany, southern Spain and in France in a rare show of cross-
border union activism against the restructuring plan which
management says is vital to rescuing Airbus.


Union voices have warned of much tougher action to come, down to
the halting of production lines, if Airbus and parent company
EADS did not back down on their plan.

