

The Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, the nation's largest
lender, said Tuesday its net profit rose 31 percent last year as
a rapidly expanding economy kept its lending business growing
fast.


The bank reported net profit in 2006 of 49.3 billion yuan (6.4
billion dollars), up from 37.6 billion yuan in 2005, according to
a statement.


The net profit was slightly lower than market expectations, which
were for a profit of around 52 billion yuan.


Retail banking and loans to small enterprises were among the
items helping to boost the bank's revenues, it said.


"Retail banking is not only an area in which the bank is strong
traditionally but also one of the strategic businesses, and key
to the sustainability of the bank's strong financial
performance," it said.


The bank said it had over 170 million retail banking customers at
the end of 2006.


The ICBC registered the world's biggest initial public offering
in October last year, raising 21.9 billion dollars when it was
listed on the Hong Kong and Shanghai markets.


The ICBC's non-performing loan ratio stood at 3.79 percent at the
end of 2006, as was likely to fall to 3.5 percent in 2007, the
bank's president said in Beijing.


Yang Kaisheng, president of ICBC, told a media briefing here that
the lender also sees its non-performing loan ratio under three
percent within three years.


Looking abroad, the ICBC's chairman Jiang Jianqing said banks
will seek overseas merger and acquisitions "when the targets meet
its conditions."


He said the bank also expected its investment banking business to
grow in 2007, following growth of 53 percent, while ICBC will
also set up branches overseas as part of its expansion campaign.


A new corporate income tax of 25 percent, down from 33 percent
before, would have a positive impact on the bank.


If the tax had been used in 2006, its after tax profits would
have risen by 45 percent rather than 31.2 percent, the bank's
president said.

