

Russia's federal atomic energy agency, Rosatom, on Tuesday said
it hoped Teheran would make timely payments for a Russian-built
nuclear power plant in the southwestern Iranian town of Bushehr.


"It is a good thing that our Iranian colleagues have overcome
their difficulties in payments for the Bushehr plant and we hope
that in the future Tehran's payments will come in accordance with
the agreed schedule," head of Rosatom, Sergei Kirienko, told
Russian media.


Russia had accused Iran of not paying the amounts agreed upon in
a deal reached last September on the construction and nuclear
fuel supply to the plant, but at the end of March, Moscow
acknowledged that Tehran had relaunched its payments.


"For the first quarter of 2007, Russia received 15 million
dollars (11 million euros) from Iran, 10 million of which came at
the end of March," Kirienko said, pointing out that Tehran had
previously agreed to pay Russia between 23 and 25 million dollars
per month.


The Bushehr contract is worth a total of about one billion
dollars.


Kirienko's comments came after the head of Iran's atomic energy
organisation announced that a Russian delegation would visit
Tehran this week to resolve problems holding up the completion of
the plant, which has been repeatedly delayed amid mutual
accusations of financial difficulties.


Under the September deal, Russia was to deliver nuclear fuel to
Iran in March, the power station would begin working in September
and it would start producing energy in November.

