

Diplomats from the United States, Europe and Africa called for
immediate action to restore security and stability in Somalia, at
a meeting in Cairo on Tuesday.


"We must act in haste as far as the unfolding situation in
Somalia goes, this is not the time for the typical international
response to Africa," said Kenyan Foreign Minister Raphael Tuju,
representing the inter-African IGAD group.


"Many things have to be done at the same time, there has to be
multi-tasking," he said.


Tuju said reconciliation, restoration of security and
rehabilitation were urgently needed in the shattered country
which has been the scene of deadly clashes between insurgents,
government forces and Ethiopian troops.


The meeting of the International Contact Group on Somalia was
also attended by the US assistant secretary of state for African
affairs, Jendayi Frazer, and Norwegian State Secretary Raymond
Johansen.


"It is clear that the Ethiopian presence in Somalia is not
sustainable and the ground has to be prepared for their
withdrawal," said Johansen in his opening remarks.


Several African officials were also taking part in the talks at
the Arab League's Cairo headquarters.


The contact group was formed last June but has struggled to bring
Somalia's warring parties back to the negotiating table.


The peace efforts came after four days of fierce fighting in the
Somali capital between Ethiopian-backed Somali troops and rebels
killed more than 120 people and forced thousands to flee.


The government is struggling to pacify Mogadishu ahead of a
National Reconciliation Conference, planned to start April 16,
despite threats of disruption by hardline Islamists.


A contingent of 1,200 Ugandan peacekeepers deployed under the
aegis of the African Union has so far failed to stem the
violence.

