

The number of illegal immigrants arriving in the Canary Islands
has fallen sharply in the past three months, police figures
showed on Tuesday, apparently thanks to a new surveillance
operation.


Some 1,525 immigrants arrived in the first quarter of 2007, a
reduction of 61 percent on the same time last year (3,194
arrivals).


In March, just 303 illegals, most of them from Sub-Sahara Africa,
arrived in the Canaries, seven times fewer than the 2,120 who
arrived in the same month last year.


The Spanish archipelego, located in the Atlantic Ocean off the
northwestern coast of Africa, is one of the main destinations for
African illegal immigrants hoping to get to Europe by sea, often
in small fishing boats.


Last year a record 31,200 illegals landed in the Canary Islands,
three times more than in 2002 when the last record of 9,929
arrivals was set.


The drop in arrivals over the past three months was largely
viewed as a result of an improvement in surveillance of the
islands' African coasts and new diplomatic efforts by Madrid
towards the immigrants' countries of origin.


European border security agency Frontex, which has coordinated
surveillance of the European Union's outside boundaries since
2004, has also stepped up its operations.


Last summer, Frontex set up patrols in the waters off West Africa
and in the second quarter of 2006, 50 boats and 4,000 immigrants
were intercepted there. However, 15,000 others made it through to
the Canaries.


A similar operation began again in February with help from Spain,
Italy, France and Luxembourg, and in conjunction with the
Senegalese authorities.

