

The chief executive of French auto maker Renault on Tuesday
launched the Logan, its first passenger car offer in India in
collaboration with Mumbai-based Mahindra and Mahindra.


The joint venture called Mahindra-Renault plans to build 50,000
of the model in 2007 year priced at 427,000 rupees (9,700
dollars) from a factory 170 kilometers (106 miles) northeast of
Mumbai.


Automobile major Mahindra and Mahindra, a subsidiary of the 2.5
billion dollar Mahindra group, holds a 51 percent stake in the
car venture while Renault holds 49 percent.


"India is one of the fastest growing car markets across the
world. We are bringing a roomy, wide-bodied and reliable car with
unmatched value," said Carlos Ghosn, president and chief
executive officer of Renault.


"This is Renault's first product to be launched in India through
the joint venture," Ghosn told Indian and French reporters.


The version of the Logan is the first right-hand drive car from
the French car maker and will be available in diesel and petrol
versions, officials said.


India will become the sixth country for production of the Logan,
after Romania, Russia, Morocco, Colombia and Iran.


The budget car was developed by Romanian car maker Dacia and its
parent company Renault.


Renault says the Logan has been designed for markets with limited
consumer purchasing power and where customers are seeking cars
without the accessories sought by buyers in western Europe.


India's car market is forecast to expand 10 percent annually to
reach two million units by 2010 as soaring economic growth boosts
the buying power of consumers in the nation of 1.1 billion.


Sales of cars in India crossed one million vehicles in 2004,
according to industry figures.

