

A British Foreign Office minister on Tuesday condemned recent
attacks which killed five African Union (AU) peacekeeping forces
in Sudan's Darfur region and one in Somalia.


"These tragic deaths bring home the reality of the risks that
African Union soldiers are facing when they deploy to such
troubled regions as peacekeepers," said Africa minister Lord
David Triesman in a statement.


"My deepest condolences go out to the families of the soldiers
killed."


Gunmen late Sunday killed five Senegalese AU peacekeepers in
northwest Darfur in the deadliest attack to hit the embattled
contingent since it was first deployed in the western Sudanese
region in 2004, AU officials said.


On March 5, two Senegalese were killed by gunmen suspected of
belonging to the Sudan Liberation Army, a rebel group which
signed the 2005 Abuja peace deal.


An Ethiopian offensive in the Somali capital Mogadishu last week
sparked some of the worst fighting in Somalia's history, during
which the first Ugandan African Union peacekeeper was killed
since their deployment last month.


Triesman condemned the groups involved in the Darfur attack,
adding that Britain "remains committed to supporting the
exceptional work that AU troops are conducting throughout
Africa."


"I call on all parties to the Darfur conflict to cease fighting
immediately, and in particular to give all assistance and access
required to the African Union force in the region," he said.


"The African Union Ceasefire Commission must investigate urgently
this incident and bring those responsible for this crime to
justice," he added.


"I also call on all parties in Somalia to support the African
Union force there and to reject all violence and commit to
peaceful dialogue."


Britain says it has been a leading financial supporter of the
African Union force in Darfur since its inception.

