

Pacific nations still lack sufficient systems to warn them of an
impending tsunami, a UN expert warned Tuesday a day after killer
waves struck the Solomon Islands following an earthquake.


Laura Kong, director of the Hawaii-based International Tsunami
Information Centre, said millions of dollars in funding since a
devastating December 2004 tsunami had flowed mostly to Indian
Ocean nations.


An estimated 230,000 were killed in that tsunami, which was
triggered by a massive undersea earthquake off Sumatra.


Monday's disaster in the western Solomons left at least 24 dead,
according to officials there, but many are missing and thousands
are homeless following the 8.0-magnitude quake and ensuing
tsunami.


"We would like to see more systems in the Pacific. It is probably
where it (the next earthquake) is going to happen," Kong told
AFP.


"Most of the money from donor countries are being spent in the
Indian Ocean. We have not seen donors' support for the Pacific."


Kong was speaking on the sidelines of a two-day gathering here of
disaster and meteorology experts from 27 Pacific nations to
discuss warning systems and better ways of alerting the public.


She said many nations were now better prepared to respond to such
threats, in particular in Southeast Asia following the 2004
disaster.


"Thailand, Singapore, Malaysia and Indonesia are better prepared
now. The locals now know what tsunami is," Kong said.


"In the last two years, some 40 places in the Indian Ocean have
sea level monitoring systems in place from zero previously," she
added.


Kong said the challenge faced by most countries was finding
enough funds to maintain warning and monitoring systems initially
funded by donor nations.


"They need to plan and budget for maintenance of the equipment to
keep the systems going," she said.

