

Europe's major stock markets rallied on Tuesday, with Frankfurt's
DAX breaching 7,000 points, as energy share prices spiked and
following overnight gains on Wall Street, dealers said.


The Financial Times meanwhile reported that European stock
exchanges have overtaken those in the United States in value for
the first time since World War I, a sign of the slipping global
dominance of US markets.


Twenty four European markets, including those in Russia and
emerging eastern countries, "saw their capitalisation rise to
15,720 billion dollars (11,819 billion euros) at the end of last
week," the FT said, citing Thompson Financial data.


In late morning trade, London's FTSE 100 index of leading shares
climbed 0.42 percent to 6,342.10 points and Frankfurt's DAX 30
won 0.88 percent to 6,998.56. The DAX earlier Tuesday went as
high as 7,006.01 points.


In Paris the CAC 40 increased 0.62 percent to 5,680.33, while the
DJ Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone blue chip shares rose 0.72
percent to 4,219.59.


The euro stood at 1.3355 dollars.


Wall Street shares had closed with modest gains Monday as
enthusiasm over two big takeover deals was partly offset by a
weaker-than-expected report on the US manufacturing sector,
dealers said.


Japanese share prices closed higher Tuesday as bargain hunters
emerged after Monday's sell-off, encouraged by a slightly softer
yen and modest gains to US stocks.


Chinese share prices rose 1.19 percent for another record finish
on continued strong fund inflows, with property and machinery
stocks gaining ground, dealers said.


In Europe the share price of E.ON surged 7.31 percent to 109.56
euros, topping Frankfurt's DAX 30 early Tuesday, following the
announcement that Germany's biggest power supplier was dropping
its record-breaking takeover bid for Spanish electricity supplier
Endesa.


Endesa slipped 0.47 percent to 40.25 euros in Madrid, where the
overall market was higher.


Meanwhile French utility group Suez jumped 2.07 percent to 40.47
euros in Paris, on speculation that E.ON would now pursue other
targets, dealers said.


In London, miners shone thanks to higher metals prices, with
Kazakhmys up 2.94 percent at 1,189 pence and Xstrata advancing
2.70 percent to 2,666 pence.


Across the Atlantic, the Dow Jones Industrial Average closed up
0.23 percent at 12,382.30 points on Monday after drifting in a
narrow range for most of the day.


The tech-heavy Nasdaq composite eked out a gain of 0.03 percent
to 2,422.26 points and the broad-market Standard and Poor's 500
index rose 0.26 percent to 1,424.55.


In Asia on Tuesday, the Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index
of leading shares closed up 1.27 percent at 17,244.05 points.


Hong Kong's key Hang Seng Index won 0.97 percent to 20,002.70,
helped by positive leads from overseas markets.

