

China's quarantine watchdog has denied US accusations that a
Chinese company exported tainted pet-food ingredients that killed
cats and dogs in North America, state press reported Tuesday.


China did not export contaminated pet food ingredients to the US
or Canada, the General Administration of Quality Supervision,
Inspection and Quarantine said in a report, according to the
official People's Daily newspaper.


"The poisoning of US pets has nothing to do with China," the
report said.


The US Food and Drug Administration posted a statement on its
website on March 30 ordering its field personnel to detain wheat
gluten imported from China's Xuzhou Anying Biologic Technology
Development Co because it contained melamine, a chemical used in
plastics and fertilizers.


Wheat gluten is used as an ingredient for pet food and the
administration's findings led to a slew of recalls in North
America.


Canadian-based Menu Foods was forced into a huge recall of its
products after its pet food was blamed for the deaths of at least
14 cats and dogs.


Xuzhou Anying, the Chinese company identified by the US
authorities, also insisted on Tuesday its wheat gluten products
were safe, although it could only vouch for the ingredients at
the time they left the factory.


"Our production process make it impossible for our products to
contain any poisoned chemicals," a vice general manager of the
firm, Geng Xiujuan, told AFP.


"We sold our products to a domestic trading company, which
purchases from various domestic makers and then sells them
abroad... the problematic stuff might be made by others. I don't
know why the US singled us out."


In China only licensed trading firms, mostly state-controlled,
can export goods to other countries, and they often buy products
from smaller manufacturers to help them export goods.

