

Indonesian police said Tuesday they found charts mapping the
structure of Jemaah Islamiyah, a Southeast Asian extremist group
linked to Al-Qaeda and blamed for the deadly Bali bombings.


A board governed the JI group, according to the photocopied
charts, which bore the handwriting of suspected leader Abu
Dujana, anti-terror police chief Brigadier General Surya Dharma
said.


"The photocopied charts are only given to certain members of the
organisation," he said.


"We are sure the board exists but we don't know who sits on it."


The photocopies were found after raids in Indonesia last month in
which one suspected militant was shot dead and seven others
arrested. The raids led to a major seizure of bombs and weapons,
which police said would have been used in future attacks.


The charts showed the structure of JI, such as names and
departments, had changed compared with previous intelligence on
the extremist group, Dharma said.


"It is clear even to laymen that this is an organised operation,"
he said in the city of Yogyakarta on Indonesia's main island of
Java.


JI has been blamed for the 2002 and 2005 Bali bombings, which
together killed more than 200 people, and the 2003 Marriott Hotel
and 2004 Australian embassy attacks in the capital Jakarta.


Dharma was to accompany six of the suspects, some of whom were
detained in Yogyakarta, and the arsenal of weapons to Jakarta for
further investigation. One suspect was unfit for travel.


A statement released earlier Tuesday by Australian and Indonesian
police in Canberra said the raids had smashed a suspected
terrorist cell and that one of the suspects was linked to the
embassy attack.


The United States says JI aims to establish a pan-Islamic state
in Southeast Asia through violent jihad.

