

The UN agency for Palestinian refugees warned Tuesday that severe
underfunding could force it to halt food deliveries to some 1.2
million people in the West Bank and Gaza Strip who are dependent
on aid.


The agency, UNRWA, launched its largest ever emergency funding
appeal last November, asking its mainly western donors for 246
million dollars (184 million euros) to cover aid through 2007.


"The response has been unprecedented, just 11 percent or 28.2
million dollars received -- this is one of the lowest responses
since 2001," said UNRWA spokesman Matthias Burckhardt.


"UNRWA urgently appeals to the international community to provide
the funding," he told journalists here.


Emergency cash assistance for the most needy in the Palestinian
territories has already been stopped, while the agency's support
for health care and job creation are on the brink of being
halted, Burckhardt said.


UNRWA also needs to conclude contracts next month to secure the
continuation of food deliveries to 1.26 million Palestinians
after July. Rations have already been cut.


"Unless we receive funding by May... we will not be able to
continue this," Burckhardt explained.


"In Gaza alone, 80 percent of the population is dependent on food
handouts." The funding so far has come from Austria, Belgium,
Canada, the European Union, Japan and other non-governmental
sources.


Traditional big donors like Scandinavian countries and the United
States have given signs that they would come up with cash but
have not made "hard pledges" for this year, Burckhardt said.


Western countries froze aid and contacts with the Palestinian
government in March 2006 when the hardline Islamist Hamas
movement took power following democratic elections and refused to
recognize Israel.

