

Japan said Tuesday that it will study a free-trade agreement with
the United States and aims to restart trade talks with South
Korea, a day after its two trading partners struck a landmark
deal.


"We need to study the advantages and problems (of a Japan-US free
trade agreement) from the point of view of all Japanese people,"
Economic and Fiscal Policy Minister Hiroko Ota told reporters.


She said that the Japanese government was awaiting a report from
experts on the issue before making a formal decision on whether
to start negotiations.


Japanese business lobbies have urged Japan to start trade talks
with the United States but farmers are concerned about the impact
on their business.


Japan also signalled its desire to breathe new life into moribund
trade talks with South Korea, which on Monday reached a free
trade agreement with the United States that scraps tariffs on
thousands of items.


"Japan has continuously appealed to South Korea to reopen
negotiations, including at a summit level," said Chief Cabinet
Secretary Yasuhisa Shiozaki.


"Japan would like to increase its efforts towards South Korea to
reopen the (free-trade) negotiations as early as possible," he
added.


Working-level talks between Tokyo and Seoul on a bilateral free
trade pact have been suspended since November 2004, largely due
to South Korea's demands that Japan open up 90 percent of its
tightly protected agricultural market.


South Korea's agreement with the United States gives its
companies an edge in the US market over their Asian competitors
in countries including Japan, China and Taiwan.


The trade deal is the biggest for the US since the North American
Free Trade Agreement in 1993 and its first with a major Asian
economy, but needs legislative approval in both countries.


Japan and South Korea have been seeking bilateral free trade
agreements amid a breakdown in global trade liberalisation talks.

