

The European Union voiced concern Tuesday about the political
crisis in Ukraine and urged the parties there to work toward a
peaceful solution.


"The European Union is concerned about the current political
crisis in Ukraine," the German EU presidency said in a statement.


It called "on those with political responsibility in Ukraine to
settle their current differences on domestic policy in a manner
which complies with the constitution and democratic rules."


"This requires moderation and a willingness to reach political
compromise from all those involved," the presidency said, adding
that it hoped the crisis would not undermine EU-Ukraine
relations.


The political impasse is the direct result of legislative
elections a year ago which saw the pro-Russia Regions party win a
crushing victory over President Viktor Yushchenko's pro-West Our
Ukraine party.


The stand-off reflects deep national divisions between the
predominantly Russian-speaking industrial east and the Ukrainian-
speaking agricultural west.


Tensions mounted late Monday, when Yushchenko announced the
dissolution of parliament and called snap legislative elections
for May 27.


But on Tuesday, Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych slammed the
decree as "a fatal mistake" and urged the legislators to keep
working.


A spokeswoman for the European Commission, the EU's executive
body, called on "all political forces concerned to cooperate and
find a peaceful solution to the current situation."


Yushchenko has pushed hard for full integration with the West
since gaining power in 2005, including membership in the NATO
military alliance. Yanukovych has instead favoured traditional
ties with Moscow.

