

The vice president of legendary French fashion house Christian
Dior in Japan has been arrested for smuggling cocaine and
possessing cannabis, police said Tuesday.


Guillaume Monnier, a 37-year-old French national, was arrested
after he sent 8.8 grams (0.31 ounces) of cocaine in a package he
posted from France to his Tokyo address, police said.


"The Frenchman told police he bought the cocaine to use it
personally," a police officer told AFP.


The Tokyo customs house discovered the cocaine, leading to a
search of his house in which police also found four grams of
cannabis resin in a refrigerator, the officer said.


Monnier and his 27-year-old French wife were arrested.


"We don't know yet if they were abusing drugs habitually but the
husband has told police he has used cocaine for some time," the
officer said on customary condition of anonymity.


"The wife said she was not aware of the husband smuggling the
cocaine," he added.


Police said Monnier admitted to hiding the cocaine but not to the
possession of cannabis, saying it may have been left at his house
by friends.


Japan strictly enforces laws against both drug trafficking and
consumption, including cannabis.


The officer said Monnier would likely face jail as he is accused
both of smuggling and possessing drugs. His wife, however, is
accused only of cannabis possession.


Christian Dior KK said Monnier has left his position as vice
president of general merchandising, marketing and communication.


"We are not in a position to comment about these problems which
do not involve Christian Dior KK and are strictly personal in
nature," the company said in a statement to AFP.


"We can confirm however that Mr Monnier is no longer associated
with Christian Dior KK and Christian Dior KK is extending its
full cooperation with the Japanese authorities as and when
needed."


The French embassy in Tokyo declined comment.

