

World oil prices fell slightly on Tuesday, as  major crude
producer Iran signalled that progress had been made in trying to
end its standoff with Britain over Tehran's capture of 15 British
sailors.


Prices nevertheless held above 68 dollars a barrel in London,
where on Monday they hit 69.58 dollars -- the highest level since
September 1, 2006.


In London early on Tuesday, the price of Brent North Sea crude
for May eased 35 cents to 68.39 dollars in electronic trading.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, dropped 36 cents to 65.58 dollars in electronic
deals before the official open of the US market.


Crude futures have soared over the past week on concerns that
Iran, the world's fourth biggest producer of oil, could move to
disrupt its energy exports should the crisis with Britain
escalate.


The detention of the 14 men and one woman has further poisoned
relations between Iran and the West at time of mounting
international impatience with the Islamic republic over its
refusal to rein in its contested nuclear programme.


Iran and Britain on Tuesday started talks described as a first
step towards resolving the row over the capture. Iran's top
security official Ali Larijani said the new contacts could create
the conditions for ending the standoff as both sides toned down
rhetoric previously marked by anger and mutual accusations.


"The British government has started diplomatic discussions with
the foreign ministry to resolve the issue of the British military
personnel," Larijani told state television's central news agency.


"It is at the beginning of the path. If they continue on this
path then logically conditions can change and we can go towards
ending this issue," he added.


Iran insists that the 15 marines and sailors were captured on
March 23 because they had illegally entered Iranian waters.
Britain claims they were taken while in Iraqi waters.

