

Thailand's army-appointed premier said Tuesday that a graft probe
into his ousted predecessor Thaksin Shinawatra could wrap up as
soon as this month and was confident it would "pin him down."


Thai prosecutors last month charged Thaksin's wife with tax
evasion and Tuesday threatened his children. But they have yet to
charge Thaksin himself for graft, one of the main reasons the
army gave for removing him in September.


"I can say that we are quite closing in on the final chapter of
Mr Thaksin's future," Prime Minister Surayud Chulanont told a
news conference in Tokyo.


"We have all the evidence and I think the investigation ... will
be able to pin him down this time," Surayud said.


He said he told a senior justice ministry official that he needed
the investigation to be finished "maybe by the end of April" but
that he would not "violate the rule of law" in rushing the case.


"We move maybe a little slowly," he said. "I don't want to rush
because we will be blamed by the other people that we didn't take
a close look at the investigation process."


Surayud, who was in Tokyo to sign a free-trade agreement,
acknowledged that last year's coup caused concern in Japan, the
top investor in Thailand, but said the "peaceful military
intervention" had been necessary.


The coup's triggers were "the unprecedented consolidation of
political and financial power by Mr Thaksin during his five years
as prime minister, his alleged abuse of state power, widespread
corruption, curtailment of media freedom and a disastrous human
rights record," Surayud said.


Thaksin's family in January 2006 sold its 49 percent stake in
telecom firm Shin Corp to Singapore's Temasek Holdings for 1.9
billion dollars.


The deal was structured to avoid paying any taxes, sparking
public protests against Thaksin, a self-made billionaire who has
globetrotted since the coup.

