

The fossilised remains of an amphibian which lived more than 245
million years ago have been found in Antarctica, suggesting that
the climate during much of the Triassic era was remarkably balmy.


The 60-centimetre (24-inch) piece of skull was teased out of
thick sandstone at Fremouw Peak in the Transantarctic Mountains,
just six degrees short of the South Pole.


Palaeontologists in Europe and the United States have identified
the beast as a Parotosuchus, a two-metre-long (6.5-feet) giant
salamander-like predator that lived 40 million years before the
first dinosaurs, inhabiting lakes and rivers.


A member of the Temnospondyl group, Parotosuchus was covered in a
scaly skin, unlike the smooth skin of modern-day amphibians, and
probably moved with an eel- like motion in the water.


Previous Parotosuchus remains have been found in Germany,
Kazakhstan, Russia and South Africa -- until now the most
southerly part of their range.


Parotosuchus lived in an era when Africa and Antarctica are
believed to have joined together in a supercontinent called
Pangea.


The researchers believe the new specimen shows that conditions
were mild enough in the late Early or Middle Triassic period to
let a cold-blooded creature live near Pangea's southern margin,
seasonally at least.


The paper is authored by palaeontologists at the Burke Museum in
Seattle, Washington state; at France's National Museum of Natural
History; and at the State Museum for Natural History in
Stuttgart, Germany.


It appears in the latest issue of the Journal of Vertebrate
Palaeontology.

