

Indonesian and Australian police have smashed a suspected
terrorist cell with links to an Islamic militant group blamed for
deadly bombings in Bali, they announced Tuesday.


The Australian Federal Police and Indonesian police said they
last month arrested eight people who had access to improvised
bombs and other weapons during raids in East Java and suspected
ties to Jemaah Islamiah (JI).


JI has been blamed for a string of major attacks in which
Australians were targeted or killed, including bombings in Bali
in October 2002 and October 2005, a blast at Jakarta's Marriott
Hotel in August 2003 and an attack on the Australian embassy in
September 2004.


"One of the suspects is believed to have close associations to
the bombing of the Australian Embassy (in Jakarta)," the police
agencies said in a statement.


Officers seized 20 bombs, 730 kilograms (1,606 pounds) of
explosive material, 45 kilograms (100 pounds) of TNT, almost 200
detonators, more than a thousand rounds of ammunition and a cache
of weapons, police said.


Five of the men were arrested in a raid in North Sleman in
Yogyakarta on March 20 during which one of the suspects was
mortally injured.


"During the arrest, INP (Indonesian National Police) shot one of
the suspects after he produced an M16 rifle and fired upon INP
officers," the statement said. "The suspect was fatally wounded."


Three other suspects were picked up in two further raids in the
days after the initial strike. Indonesian police have charged the
suspects with terrorism related offences and they will face
Indonesian courts soon, the statement said.


Indonesian police chief General Surya Dharma said the raids had
averted a major terrorist attack, while the AFP deputy
commissioner John Lawler described the operation as a watershed.


"This is a significant milestone for the INP and AFP efforts to
contain and counter the threat posed by terrorists to the
region", he said.

