

Taiwan's government spokesman Cheng Wen-tsang resigned Tuesday
for allegedly trying to influence the sale of Japanese-owned
shares in a local television station.


Cheng, director of the Government Information Office, held a
banquet in January for representatives of Japan's Fuji Television
Network, a shareholder of Taiwan Television Enterprise (TTV) and
reportedly tried to persuade the company to transfer its shares
to a Taiwanese newspaper.


"The timing of the banquet was inappropriate," Premier Su Tseng-
chang told reporters after accepting Cheng's resignation.


"But director Cheng did not interfere with the share release of
the Japanese side," Su said, adding Fuji Television already
planned to transfer its shares to TTV executive Lai Kuo-chou.


Lai is the son-in-law of former President Lee Teng-hui.


Cheng, a political appointee, tendered his resignation Monday "to
save the government from criticism and I acknowledge his hard
work during the past year," Su said.


Cheng, under fire for weeks from academics and opposition
politicians for allegedly trying to influence the ownership of a
media organisation, was not available for comment.


Cheng's resignation is the latest scandal to hit the ruling
Democratic Progressive Party after President Chen Shui-bian and
his family were charged for claiming 14.8 million Taiwan dollars
(450,000 US dollars) in personal expenses from state funds.


TTV, founded in 1962, is the island's oldest-establishing
television station. Three Japanese companies including Fuji
Television were required to relinquish their shares in TTV by May
as revised laws forbid foreign investors from holding shares in
terrestrial television and radio stations.

