

Competition is fierce in the high speed train stakes and as the
French TGV goes for a world rail speed record Tuesday, here is
the state of the high speed train market:


-- Japan's Shinkansen


The pioneer Shinkansen bullet train launched on the Tokyo-Osaka
line for the 1964 Olympics. It is made by Kawasaki, Hitachi and
Nippon Sharyo and currently has a top service speed of about 300
kph (186 mph).


Tests started in April, 2006 on a new version, the Fastech 360Z,
which should be able to travel at 360kph (223 mph) in service and
400kph (248 mph) in tests.


A Shinkansen train service started in Taiwan on January 5. The
345 kilometers (214 miles) from Kaohsiung to Panchiao in 90
minutes.


-- France's Train a Grande Vitesse (TGV)


Studies on the train started in 1968 and it went into service in
1981. It is the fastest in commercial operation at 320 kilometers
(198.7 miles) per hour, according to the French rail company
SNCF.


It set a rail speed record of 515.3kph (320 mph) on May 18, 1990.


Two new versions are being worked on. French engineering firm
Alstom and AnsaldoBreda, part of the Italian engineering
conglomerate Finmeccanica, are working on a prototype AGV
(Automotrice a Grande Vitesse) for this year which could have a
cruising speed of 350 kph (217 mph).


Canadian company Bombardier and Alstom announced in 2006 that
they were working on a train codenamed Zefiro which would be as
fast at the AGV but have greater capacity.


-- Germany's ICE


The Inter-City Express entered service in Germany in 1991 and is
made by a consortium led by Siemens. The third generation trains
now travel at more than 300kph (186 mph).


A Spanish version of the train, named Velaro, is to enter service
this year on the Madrid-Barcelona line with speeds reaching
350kph (217 mph).


-- Magnetic Levitatioin


Japan's magnetic levitation, Maglev, train set the world train
speed record of 581kph (360.8 mph) on December 2, 2003.


It has been tested since 1997 on a track at Yamanashi, west of
Tokyo. Maglev trains go faster than traditional rail coumterparts
because they hover over rails using a powerful system of magnets.


The technique was invented by a German consortium, Transrapid
International, which includes ThyssenKrupp AG and Siemens, in the
hope of making trains with a cruising speed of 430kph (265 mph).


There is a commercial Maglev service between Shanghai and the
city's Pudong international airport. Projects in Germany have
been frozen since an accident involving a driverless train in
September, 2006 which left 23 dead. But there are also studies
for services in Britain, the Netherlands, Qatar, United Arab
Emirates, the United States.

