

Knut, the polar bear cub who has become a global sensation after
surviving rejection by his mother, was making his mark on the
stock market, too, on Tuesday, as shares in the Berlin Zoo where
he lives soared on the Berlin stock exchange.


Berlin Zoo shares topped a six-year high of 3,900 euros in
afternoon trading, representing a staggering rise of 400 euros or
11.43 percent on the day.


And since Friday, the shares have risen as much as 77 percent.


Nevertheless, given the small trading volume, only a limited
number of purchases is enough to move the share.


In the wake of the media's love affair with the cuddly white bear
cub, the Berlin zoo has already copyrighted the Knut name.


Thousands of extra visitors are flocking to Berlin zoo to get a
glimpse of Knut, with many taking cuddly toy versions of the bear
home with them.


The zoo is selling the toys by the thousands and is rushing
thousands more into production to re-stock its souvenir shop and
meet orders from Austria and the United States.


In fact, the marketing men are having a field day, with German
confectionery maker Haribo planning to add a new Knut-shaped
design to its existing range of jelly bear sweets.


The zoo is planning a range of further related products, but
stresses that the profits will be ploughed back into animal
conservation.


Knut hit the headlines last month when German media whipped up an
outcry after an animal activist was quoted as saying that he
should have been put down after he and his brother were rejected
by their mother following their birth in December.


Claims by the activist that he was misquoted have been lost in
the ensuing media storm.


The marketing men, however, see one problem with the appeal of
their cuddly new star: he is growing fast.


Knut currently weighs in at nine kilogrammes (19 pounds), but
fully grown polar bear males can top the scales at 600
kilogrammes.

