

The next two days will be "critical" in efforts to resolve
Britain's standoff with Iran, Prime Minister Tony Blair said
Tuesday, while noting a "prospect" of progress.


"The next 48 hours will be fairly critical," Blair told Glasgow-
based Real Radio, while cautiously welcoming comments by top
Iranian official Ali Larijani, who on Monday underlined the need
for a diplomatic solution.


"I've read the transcripts of the interview (Larijani) gave and
that seems to offer some prospect but the most important thing is
to get these people back," he said, referring to the Iranian's
comments in a television interview.


And he added: "All the way through this we've really had two
tracks on this: one is to make sure Iran understands that the
pressure is there available to us if this thing has to be hard
and tough and long.


"On the other hand, to say all the way through we're not looking
for confrontation over this and actually the most important thing
is to get the people back safe and sound and if they want to
resolve this in a diplomatic way the door is open."


His comments came after Iran and Britain on Tuesday started talks
described as a first step towards resolving the row over the
capture of British sailors that has further strained relations
between Tehran and the West.


Larijani said the new contacts could create the conditions for
ending the standoff as both sides toned down rhetoric previously
marked by anger and mutual accusations.


"The British government has started diplomatic discussions with
the foreign ministry to resolve the issue of the British military
personnel," Larijani told state television's central news agency.


"It is at the beginning of the path. If they continue on this
path then logically conditions can change and we can go towards
ending this issue," he added.

