

Hong Kong shares prices closed 0.97 percent higher Tuesday as
positive leads from overseas markets, including Tokyo, helped the
key index regain the 20,000 points level, dealers said.


They said select blue chips and China-related stocks saw strong
buying while new listing CITIC 1616 Holdings was also in focus as
it posted sharp gains.


The Hang Seng Index closed up 193.0 points at 20,002.70, after
trading between 19,903.89 and 20,021.03. Turnover was 40.01
billion dollars (5.1 billion US).


"The market did well on the back of firm overseas markets...
buying sentiment was quite strong especially in select blue chips
and China-related stocks, which led the benchmark index to rise
back to the 20,000-points level," said Peter Lai, sales director
at DBS Vickers.


However, he added that the market is unlikely to sustain at the
20,000 level Wednesday as investors may take quick profits ahead
of upcoming holidays and key US employment data later in the
week.


Lai also said the market lacks fresh trading leads to support
further gains.


The market will be closed from Thursday until Monday for public
holidays. Lai noted that investors are taking a keen interest in
IPOs and new listings.


"CITIC 1616 staged strong debut today... while the IPO of Chinese
property developer Country Garden Holdings is also attracting
huge investor interest. Market focus has shifted to the IPOs," he
said.


Country Garden is issuing 12.9 billion Hong Kong dollars of
shares in its Hong Kong IPO at an indicated price range of
4.18-5.38 dollars. Retail subscription opened Tuesday.


CITIC 1616 closed at 4.31, up 67 percent from the IPO price of
2.58 dollars. It hit a high of 4.54 dollars in early deals. A
total of 365.35 million shares worth 1.61 billion dollars have
changed hands Tuesday.


ICBC finished flat at 4.4 hkd ahead of its 2006 results
announcement.


The mainland banking giant reported, after market close, a net
profit of 49.26 billion yuan (6.3 billion US) for 2006, slightly
lower than consensus forecasts.


Among large-caps, HSBC was up 0.60 at 136.90.


Hang Seng Bank was up 0.70 at 111.60 and BOC Hong Kong gained
0.18 at 19.06, and Bank of East Asia was up 0.90 at 46.65.


PetroChina rose 0.04 at 9.26, Sinopec was up 0.09 at 6.72 and
CNOOC gained 0.04 at 6.88.


The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index closed up 81.27 points or
0.84 percent at 9,724.27.

