

The Finnish engineering group Metso said on Tuesday it was
considering delisting from the New York stock exchange and being
quoted only in Helsinki.


"We are evaluating the pros and cons. We are taking into
consideration the benefits that a listing provides today...they
are not quite the same as they were when we originally listed our
shares there," Metso's Financial Director Olli Vaartimo was
quoted by the financial news agency AFX News as saying.


"Irrespective of the final decision on the matter Metso intends
to continue to develop its business operations in the United
States and its strong relationship with American investors,"
Vaaartimo said.


A final decision will be taken over the coming months, he added.
The stock has been quoted in Helsinki and New York since June 1,
1999.


The announcement follows last week's revision of exchange rules
by the US Securities and Exchange Commission that effectively
makes it easier for a foreign issuer to delist its shares.


Meanwhile, the Financial Times said Tuesday that European stock
exchanges have overtaken those in the United States in value for
the first time since World War I, a sign of the slipping global
dominance of US markets.


Metso, which employs 25,000 people in 50 countries registered a
net profit of 410 million euros (547 million dollars) in 2006, an
increase of 72 percent, on a turnover of 4.9 billion euros.


On Tuesday in early afternoon trade its share price had risen by
1.45 percent to 44.6 euros on a market which had risen by 0.86
percent.

