

A Syrian court is to give its verdict on April 24 in the trial of
human rights activist Anwar Bunni who risks more than three years
in jail for "spreading false information", a rights group said on
Tuesday.


"The criminal court has scheduled a verdict for April 24," Ammar
al-Qorabi, who heads the National Organisation for Human Rights
in Syria, told AFP after Bunni's lawyers presented their closing
arguments.


Bunni, himself a lawyer, was arrested in the Syrian capital in
May 2006 after signing an appeal for radical reform in relations
between Syria and neighbouring Lebanon.


Syria's state prosecutor said in February that Bunni would be
prosecuted for spreading false information.


On Tuesday, Bunni's lawyers argued that "the prosecution failed
to provide proof concerning the charges" and demanded his
acquittal, Qorabi said.


European, US and Canadian diplomats based in Damascus attended
the session, along with Bunni family members and friends, he
said.


Bunni was the director of a legal rights centre in Syria financed
partly by the European Union and established by a Belgian non-
governmental organisation. The centre was closed down after his
arrest.


In a statement to the court in January, Bunni said he was being
judged for his opinions and had in no way violated the
constitution or the law.


The "Beirut-Damascus Declaration" published in the Lebanese
capital in May 2006 was signed by nearly 300 Syrian and Lebanese
intellectuals.


In the crackdown that followed in Syria, Bunni was arrested along
with nine others, including journalist and writer Michel Kilo and
communist activist Mahmud Issa.


On March 27, Kilo and Issa were charged in court with spreading
false information and sowing discord, and they also face possible
jail terms of at least three years.

