

Japan and Thailand sign a free-trade agreement Tuesday that will
scrap tariffs on more than 90 percent of traded goods within 10
years.


Following are the main points of the agreement, provided by
Japan's foreign ministry:


- Overall: About 97 percent of Japanese exports to Thailand and
92 percent of Thai exports to Japan will be tariff-free within 10
years.


- Agriculture: Japan will immediately scrap tariffs on imports of
processed shrimp and tropical fruit such as mango, papaya and
durian, and halve tariffs on boneless and cooked chicken within
five years. It will keep rice tariffs.


- Automobiles: Thailand will cut tariffs on automobiles with
engines of 3000 cc or larger to 60 percent from 80 percent over
four years, and consider cuts for vehicles with larger engines.


- Auto parts: Thailand will scrap tariffs on auto parts within
seven years.


- Steel products: Thailand will immediately scrap tariffs on half
of all steel imports from Japan and end tariffs on the remainder
within 10 years.


- Investor Protection: Thailand pledges not to toughen rules for
existing Japanese investments. New investments, however, will be
subject to the country's controversial currency controls that
require 30 percent of all incoming investment to be held by
financial institutions for up to one year.


- Intellectual Property Rights: Both countries will strengthen
protection for intellectual property rights. Japan assures
Thailand that its firms will not unfairly patent genetically
modified micro-organisms used in the food and medical industries
-- one of the main concerns of Thai opponents of the deal.


- Labour: Japan will allow more Thai cooks to work in Japan by
shortening the required minimum work experience to five years
from 10, and continue discussions on rules for Thai spa
therapists and care workers.

