

Japanese share prices closed 1.27 percent higher Tuesday as
bargain hunters emerged after Monday's sell-off, encouraged by a
slightly softer yen and modest gains on Wall Street, dealers
said.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
rose 215.64 points to 17,244.05.


The TOPIX index of all issues on the Tokyo Stock Exchange's first
section added 21.83 points or 1.30 percent to 1,704.32.


Gainers beat decliners 1,012 to 591, with 126 stocks flat.


Volume was 2.34 billion shares, unchanged from Monday.


"The market rebounded from (Monday's) dip and the softer yen,
which hovered at the 118 yen level against the dollar, also
supported market sentiment," said Fumiyuki Nakanishi, chief
strategist at SMBC Friend Securities.


But Nakanishi said the rebound looks weak considering that the
Nikkei-225 was trading between 17,500 and 18,000 points before
the global market sell-off that began in late February.


"The market has not found its direction yet," he said.


Investors were waiting for US data including fresh housing
figures and the pivotal monthly employment report due Friday,
dealers said.


"The US employment report later this week might set the tone for
the market," said Hideo Mizutani, chief strategist at Sieg
Securities.


"But generally, investors will refrain from taking large
positions ahead of the results season in Japan and in the US
starting mid- to end-April," Mizutani added.


Nissan was up six yen or 0.5 percent at 1,265 and Mitsubishi
Motor gained one yen or 0.5 percent to 184 after the two auto
makers agreed to expand an original equipment manufacturer (OEM)
arrangement.


Among other autos, Isuzu Motors rose 21 yen or 3.6 percent to
599, Honda Motor climbed 100 yen or 2.5 percent to 4,150 and
Yamaha Motor was up 100 yen or 3.1 percent at 3,340.


Electronics makers were also in demand.


Toshiba climbed 33 yen or 4.2 percent to 820, Mitsubishi Electric
rose 25 yen or 2.1 percent to 1,210, Sony was up 140 yen or 2.4
percent at 6,000 and Matsushita Electric Industrial gained 60 yen
or 2.5 percent to 2,415.


Fujitsu rose 19 yen or 2.4 percent to 803 after the Nikkei
business daily reported that the company intends to more than
triple its Indian workforce of software developers to 10,000 by
2010 in a bid to boost its competitiveness.


Mitsui and Co added 70 yen or 3.3 percent to 2,175 after a
consortium it heads won an order for a major railway construction
project in Saudi Arabia.


On the foreign exchange market, the dollar edged up to 118.00 yen
in Tokyo afternoon trade from 117.83 in New York late Monday.


The euro was flat at 1.3365 dollars while rising to 157.72 yen
from 157.50.

