

The popularity of Hong Kong leader Donald Tsang has reached a new
high, a survey revealed Tuesday, a week after he won a second
term in office.


Tsang, who was easily re-elected ahead of pro-democracy
challenger Alan Leong by the handful of city elites, now holds a
79 percent vote of confidence, up from 76 percent in the previous
survey and a record since September 2005.


Some 1,000 respondents, polled by the Hong Kong University
between March 19-21 before the March 25 election, also scored
Tsang's performance on a variety of specific measures at 68.1 out
of a possible 100 points, up 1.2 points from the previous study.


"As the election comes to an end, if Donald Tsang can make full
use of the relationship he has established with the people during
the election in shaping his new policies, he may be able to enjoy
another honeymoon period," said Robert Chung, director of the
university's public opinion programme.


However, the survey also showed 50 percent of the people were now
happy with the government's overall performance, down from 51
percent.


The people's satisfaction with the government's performance in
maintaining economic prosperity rose to a record high of 56
percent since September 1997. But only 37 percent were happy with
the city's democratic development.


"Whether (the government's popularity) can go up further depends
on how the government handles the difficult issues it is facing,
and how it will develop its new policy concepts," Chung added.


The nearly 800 members of the election committee -- the only
people allowed to vote for Chief Executive, most of them Beijing
loyalists -- gave Tsang another term in office last week with a
649-123 win over challenger Alan Leong.


It was the first contested leadership election since Britain
handed Hong Kong back to China in 1997, and forced Tsang to hold
two debates with his challenger and even make his case to the
people with some campaign rallies.

