

Convicted drug dealer Siriporn Taweesuk of Thailand won a boxing
bout held in a Bangkok prison Tuesday to win a world title and
possibly early parole.


Siriporn beat Japan's Ayaka Miyano on points after 10 rounds in
the ring to clinch the vacant World Boxing Council female light
flyweight.


The 24-year-old Thai, currently serving a 10-year sentence for
selling small amounts of narcotics, dominated the fight in a
temporary ring in the prison compound, taking the title 97-93,
98-92, 100-91.


"I'm really glad," Siriporn said after her victory in front of an
excited  crowd of 700, which included a handful of fellow inmates
from the mixed prison.


"The corrections department have given me support. If I was not
here in the prison, I might be outside and be a drug addict,"
added the boxer, who trained behind bars.


Organisers believe the win makes her the first inmate to clinch a
world title from prison.


Thailand's prison boss Nathee Chitsawang on Monday said Siriporn
could be granted early parole so that she can defend the title in
overseas fights.


She has one year left on her sentence, having already served nine
years.


After her convincing win Tuesday, Nathee said they would start
considering her parole, a process which takes two months.


"We gave her the opportunity to develop her boxing skills," said
Nathee. "From now, her life will change."


Asked what she would do if she was released, Siriporn said she
would like to open a grocery store.


This is the third year in a row that the Thai corrections
department and the WBC have organised prison bouts in Bangkok.


Last May, Siriporn Sor Siriporn, known as "Black Rose," lost her
fight to Japanese champion Nanako Kikuchi, and with it a chance
to cut short her sentence.

