

The UN refugee agency said Tuesday that attacks by Sudanese
Janjaweed militia on villages in southeastern Chad, which
reportedly left at least 65 dead, have triggered a new wave of
displacement.


UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) spokesman Ron Redmond
said Chadian military authorities had reported a total of 65 dead
in one of the villages, Tiero, including villagers and
combatants.


The death toll was expected to rise, with reports of bodies being
found by the roadside, he said.


Chad on Monday accused Janjaweed militia of killing 29 civilians
in Tiero and Morina over the weekend, while security forces
killed 25 attackers.


"There was news this morning of a new wave of displacement in
southeastern Chad following the deadly attack," Redmond told
journalists.


"We do not know yet how many people have been displaced in total,
but preliminary reports by UNHCR and other humanitarian agencies
indicate that at least 2,000 people have arrived at the Goz Amir
refugee camp."


The camp is home to about 19,000 Sudanese refugees who fled
across the border from neighbouring Darfur.


Between 6,000 and 8,000 people were left homeless following the
attacks, authorities in Chad said Monday.


Aid workers in the region said that more than 70 wounded people
had arrived Sunday at two hospitals in the southeast border
region of Chad.


The Khartoum-backed Janjaweed militia and the Sudanese military
have been accused of carrying out mass killings during attacks on
villages inside Darfur, forcing at least two million people to
flee their homes since 2003.

