

The German foreign ministry on Tuesday condemned a video showing
two German hostages held in Iraq begging for their lives as their
captors reiterated threats to kill them.


"It is really very difficult to watch how these people are
humiliated on video," foreign ministry spokesman Martin Jaeger
told a press briefing.


He said the ministry learnt of the video in the early hours of
the morning, an hour after it was posted on the Internet, and
studied it overnight.


"Many of us did not sleep much last night. We will be meeting
with the ministry's crisis team this afternoon to give our
interpretation of the video and try to draw final conclusions
about it," Jaeger said.


A US-based institute monitoring Islamist websites said the Iraqi
kidnappers of Hannelore Krause, 61, and her son Sinan, 20,
extended a deadline for Berlin to withdraw its forces from
Afghanistan or see the hostages executed by 10 days in the video.


The video showed a distraught Krause sobbing as she appealed to
her Iraqi husband and countrymen to save her life.


"I beg you, help me... I'm so afraid and we only have a few days
left," Krause wailed.


Krause and her son were seized on February 6 in Baghdad where
they have lived for several years.


It is the second video ultimatum released by an Iraqi group
called the "Kataeb Siham al-Haq (Righteous Arrows Battalions)" in
which they threaten to kill the hostages unless German and
Austrian forces withdrew from Afghanistan.


A first deadline for the pair's execution came and went on March
20.


In the second video, the kidnappers appeared to be "extending the
ultimatum for this withdrawal (from Afghanistan) by 10 days,"
SITE said.


The video did not give the exact date of the new deadline to
decide the fate of Krause and her son, who works at the Iraqi
foreign ministry.

