

Chinese computer maker Lenovo has earned the top spot in
Greenpeace's ranking of the eco-friendliness of major electronics
companies, ousting previous leader Nokia, the activist group said
on Tuesday.


The report, which ranks companies on their policies regarding
chemicals and waste, gave the Beijing-based company top marks for
its handling of discarded electronic products, known as
"e-waste".


It praised the company for offering recycling and other waste
disposal avenues in all the countries where its products are sold
and for reporting the amount of e-waste it recycles as a
percentage of its sales.


"Given the growing mountains of e-waste in China -- both imported
and domestically generated -- it is heartening to see a Chinese
company taking the lead, and assuming responsibility at least for
its own branded waste," Iza Kruszewska, Greenpeace International
Toxics Campaigner, said.


The report noted however, that Lenovo, which bought IBM's
consumer electronics division in 2005, has yet to put on the
market products that are free of the worst chemicals.


"The challenge for the industry now is to see who will actually
place greener products on the market," Kruszewska said.


The report said overall scores have improved for the industry
since the last rankings came out in December 2006.


The other companies in the top five were Nokia, Sony Ericsson,
Dell, and Samsung.


The report criticised Sony and LG Electronics for opposing
producer responsibility laws in the United States and for calling
for consumers, instead of producers, to pay for the recycling of
e-waste.


It said 14th-ranked Apple kept its hold on the bottom spot it has
occupied since the report's launch in August 2006.

