

Australian share prices closed 1.65 percent higher Tuesday,
crossing the key 6,000 points mark for the first time in almost
six weeks as investors looked for bargains after Monday's losses,
dealers said.


They said there was strong support for the big banks and miners
while the media and retail sectors were buoyed by takeover
activity.


The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 rose 97.6 points to 6,013.4, within
sight of the record close of 6,044.0 posted on February 26 before
heavy losses in China the following day sparked heavy losses in
global equity markets.


The broader All Ordinaries put on 89.4 points at 5,997.6. The
market dropped 1.32 percent on Monday.


Turnover was 1.63 billion shares worth 5.27 billion dollars (4.30
billion US), with rises outnumbering falls 698 to 517 and 321
stocks unchanged.


"It's been a volatile time lately and often the sell-offs seem to
get overdone a little bit," CMC Markets chief equity analyst
David Land said.


Dealers said the Reserve Bank of Australia's interest rate
announcement on Wednesday should determine trading in the
holiday-shortened week, with a 25 basis point hike seen as a
50-50 bet.


Land said the major banks and insurers enjoyed a positive rebound
while the consumer stocks had a quiet session on concerns of the
interest rate hike.


Index leading resources stocks BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto, helped
by stronger base metal and oil prices, regained lost ground. BHP
Billiton rose 0.74 dollars to 30.09 dollars and Rio Tinto added
1.70 to 78.90.


The major banks were all ahead -- National Australia Bank gained
0.68 to 40.70, Commonwealth Bank rose 0.73 to 50.33, ANZ added
0.25 to 29.65 and Westpac climbed 0.20 to 26.10.


Among the media stocks, Fairfax gained 0.14 to 5.14, PBL added
0.25 to 19.85, Seven Network climbed 0.07 to 11.33 and Southern
Cross Broadcasting surged 1.01 to 17.20.


Retailer Woolworths gained 0.65 to 27.25 after conglomerate
Wesfarmers confirmed it had bought a 11.3 percent stake Coles.
Coles and Wesfarmers were suspending further news.


Dominant telco Telstra fell 0.04 to 4.58 while SingTel gained
0.03 to 2.67.


Qantas was up 0.03 to 5.19 while budget carrier Virgin Blue was
steady at 2.53.

