

A Thai court Tuesday ordered the release of Vietnamese dissident
Ly Tong, who hijacked a plane from Thailand to drop anti-
government pamphlets over Ho Chi Minh City six years ago, his
lawyer said.


A criminal court had ruled in September that Tong, a US citizen,
should be deported to Vietnam to face criminal charges for
violating the country's national security.


But the Thai Appeals Court ruled Tuesday that Tong was only
seeking to make a political statement, and ordered his release,
the lawyer said.


Tong has already served a prison sentence in Thailand over the
hijacking.


"The court overturned the criminal court's decision to send him
back to Vietnam, and he will be freed today," lawyer Worasit
Piriyawiboon told AFP.


Tong, a former South Vietnam fighter pilot, hijacked a plane from
Thailand in November 2000 to drop 50,000 pamphlets over Ho Chi
Minh City urging people to rebel against Vietnam's government.


His stunt took place during a visit to Vietnam by then-US
president Bill Clinton.


Tong, 58, was arrested after landing back in Thailand and he was
later sentenced to seven years in prison for violating Thai
airspace.


He was granted an early release in May 2006 but was again
detained by Thai authorities for the extradition hearing.


Tong plans to ask the US embassy in Bangkok for travel documents
to allow him to leave Thailand, Worasit said.


Vietnamese foreign ministry spokesman Le Dung voiced regret over
the court ruling and said Tong's actions amounted to terrorism.


"Ly Tong seriously violated the sovereignty, security and law of
Vietnam as well as international law and convention," he said.
"The nature of his actions constitutes a terrorist act. Such
actions should be seriously punished."


Dung added that the ruling was "not in accordance with the
development of good relations between Vietnam and Thailand and
goes against common efforts to prevent and fight crime and
terrorism in the region and in the world."

