

Japan and Thailand on Tuesday signed a free-trade agreement
scrapping more than 90 percent of tariffs in a deal that has
triggered street protests in Bangkok.


Prime Minister Shinzo Abe signed the pact in a ceremony in Tokyo
with his army- installed counterpart Surayud Chulanont.


"I am grateful that I've been able to see Abe and that his
cabinet has agreed to sign the economic partnership agreement,"
said Surayud, paying his first visit to a Group of Eight nation
since the coup.


After signing the free-trade agreement and shaking hands, the two
leaders looked at a display case holding papers signed exactly
120 years ago that established ties between the two Asian
countries.


"Thai-Japanese relations have persevered over hundreds of years,
but today marks a new step," Abe said.


The deal, which had been negotiated by Thailand's ousted elected
premier Thaksin Shinawatra, is expected to boost Japanese
automakers' reliance on the kingdom.


But activists -- some of whom were part of protests against
Thaksin before his ouster -- say the free-trade deal will turn
Thailand into a dumping ground for Japan's toxic waste.


Under the agreement, about 97 percent of Japanese exports to
Thailand and 92 percent of Thai exports to Japan will be tariff-
free within 10 years.


Tokyo will scrap tariffs on Thai shrimp and tropical fruit such
as mangoes and durian, although it will keep protecting Japan's
politically powerful rice farmers.


Thailand will cut tariffs on automobiles with engines of 3000 cc
or larger to 60 percent from 80 percent over four years and
eventually scrap all tariffs on steel imports.

