

The dollar rose against the euro and yen on Tuesday as the market
awaited fresh housing figures from the United States, dealers
said.


The euro eased to 1.3363 dollars in early European trading, from
1.3365 dollars late in New York on Monday. The euro meanwhile hit
as high as 158.35 yen, a level last seen in late February.


The dollar gained to 118.53 yen in European trade, reaching the
highest level since March 1, compared with 117.83 late on Monday.


Trading was somewhat muted due to a lack of new leads, and with
dealers in Europe and the United States winding down ahead of the
Easter holiday weekend, analysts said.


On the data front, the main focus will be US pending home sales
data due Tuesday.


"A further test (for the dollar) could come from the pending home
sales, a lead indicator for the US housing market," ABN Amro
currency analyst Peter Frank said.


The US property market has been struggling as lending rates have
increased and speculators have pulled out of what had been a
sizzling sector. "Subprime" loans, or mortgages marketed to
people with poor credit histories, are seeing the worst problems.


The dollar on Monday had shrugged off a weaker-than-expected
reading of an index of US industrial activity, which dipped to
50.9 percent in March from 52.3 percent in February, according to
the Institute of Supply Management.


Further afield, participants were to focus on the monthly US
labour market report on Friday, when many key markets will be
closed for Good Friday.


Elsewhere the yen plumbed multi-month lows against the euro and
the dollar as investors ploughed back into carry trades, whereby
speculators take advantage of Japan's rock-bottom interest rates
to raise cheap funds to invest elsewhere.


"There has been little news from Japan today but the movement in
the foreign exchange market today underlines the fact that the
appetite for yen selling has truly returned with the yen weaker
against all major currencies," said Derek Halpenny, senior
currency economist at The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi.


Meanwhile the Australian dollar broke through another 10-year
high of 0.8181 dollars ahead of Wednesday's interest rate
decision from the Reserve Bank of Australia.


"Speculation is likely to continue and provide further support to
the Aussie (dollar) ahead of the rate decision," said Gavin
Friend, currency strategist at Commerzbank.


Speculation is building that the RBA will raise rates by a
quarter basis point to 6.50 percent, analysts said.


The euro was changing hands at 1.3363 dollars, against 1.3365
dollars on Monday, 158.35 yen (157.50), 0.6756 pounds (0.6756)
and 1.6276 Swiss francs (1.6247).


The dollar stood at 118.53 yen (117.83) and 1.2184 Swiss francs
(1.2154).


The pound was being traded at 1.9778 dollars (1.9776).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold jumped to 664.30
dollars per ounce, from 658.25 dollars late on Monday.

