

The boss of Britain's biggest-ever cocaine smuggling network, who
was nicknamed "The Milkman" because he always delivered, was
jailed for 30 years by a British court Tuesday.


Brian Wright, 60, used luxury yachts to ship hundreds of millions
of pounds (euros, dollars) worth of cocaine from South America to
Britain -- and lived the high life on the proceeds.


He reportedly had a villa called El Lechero (The Milkman) in
Spain, bet huge sums of cash on rigged horseraces and was friends
with the likes of singer Frank Sinatra.


But he was rumbled following an 11-year investigation by British
customs, which took them as far afield as Mexico, Venezuela,
South Africa, the Caribbean and Australia, and is now likely to
die in prison.


Wright is being held at Britain's most secure jail, Belmarsh in
south-east London, where fellow inmates include Abu Hamza -- a
Muslim cleric convicted of soliciting murder and inciting race
hatred.


"You were a master criminal: manipulative, influential and
powerful," Judge Peter Moss told Wright during a sentencing
hearing at Woolwich Crown Court, south-east London.


"You played for the very highest stakes and won, for a number of
years, a luxury lifestyle. You knew the consequences of detection
and conviction."


Wright was convicted Monday of conspiracy to evade prohibition on
the importation of a controlled drug and conspiracy to supply
drugs.


The investigation into his network, the Wright Organisation, was
triggered in 1996, when customs officials found 599 kilograms of
cocaine with a street value of 80 million pounds (118 million
euros, 158 million dollars) hidden in the dumb waiter of a yacht
docked in Cork, southern Ireland.


Wright was arrested in Spain in 2005 and extradited to face
trial.

