

Rangers won 1-0 at St Mirren on Sunday to make more progress in
ensuring second spot in the Scottish Premier League and in
preventing Celtic being crowned champions for another fortnight.


Nacho Novo netted the only goal of the game at Love Street to
secure a victory which allowed Gers to move eight points clear of
nearest rivals Aberdeen.


The result was bad news for Saints, though, who are just four
points ahead of SPL basement boys Dunfermline with five games to
go.


Kris Boyd had a couple of goalscoring opportunities before St
Mirren managed to get well on top after the break.


Gus MacPherson's St Mirren however just could not get on target
meaning they were not able to allay their relegation fears.


Had Rangers lost, Celtic would have claimed the title but April
21 is now the earliest date their cross-city rivals can clinch
the championship.


Rangers boss Walter Smith brought in Ugo Ehiogu and Chris in
place of Dado Prso and Ian Murray compared to their 1-1 draw with
Inverness CT last weekend.


Scotland B international Kirk Broadfoot, who has agreed to join
Rangers next season, had a poor start for St Mirren. He clashed
with his own goalkeeper in Chris Smith in the penalty area,
leaving the ball to fall for Novo who fired home from 10 metres.


With chances few till the break, St Mirren started brightly in
the second half with Stewart Kean muscling in at the near post
though he managed to put his shot wide.


Broadfoot fed Kean from just outside the box but his effort
sailed wide though Rangers keeper Allan McGregor would have had
no chance. St Mirren substitute Billy Mehmet also put an
attempted shot high over the bar from the edge of the penalty
area.

