

Controversial Alaves president Dimitry Piterman will be looking
for his fifth coach of the season after Mario Luna handed in his
resignation at the Spanish second division club here Sunday.


Luna had only been in charge one month but decided to go before
he was pushed by Piterman after Alaves lost 2-0 at Salamanca.


Piterman introduced Luna on March 7 but quickly made it clear he
would not be around for long if Alaves continued to struggle.


Piterman, a Ukrainian-born American citizen who has extensive
property interests in Spain, has rapidly gained a reputation as
the most difficult man to work for in Spanish professional
football.


"I've put a strain on my curriculum working for Piterman," said
Luna's predecessor Fabri Gonzalez when he was shown the door last
month.


Piterman bought control of the Basque club in July 2004 when
Alaves were in the Spanish second division.


They were promoted that year but immediately relegated from the
Spanish top flight at the end of last season.


Last month, Alaves player and former captain Lluis Carreras
issued a writ against Piterman after he had made crude and public
criticisms of the veteran defender.


Many Alaves fans have been boycotting their games this season in
protest against Piterman, whose habit of hiring and firing
coaches has only been rivalled in the modern era by the late
Atletico Madrid president Jesus Gil.


Gil, who died in 2004, went through 23 coaches in 15 seasons
including six in one season but Piterman could equal his record
with 10 games still to go.


Alaves, who lost the final of the 2001 UEFA Cup to Liverpool,
currently lie 16th in the 22-team Spanish second division only
two points away from the relegation zone.


Piterman also owns the California Victory, who play in the USL
first division, the second tier of US football which resides
below Major League Soccer.

