

Nine Algerian soldiers and at least six Islamist militants were
killed in fighting after a military convoy was ambushed in a
forested area west of Algiers, security sources said Sunday.


The militants lost between six and 10 fighters in the clashes
late Saturday, the sources said, adding that the group of some 50
men carried away the bodies. Five soldiers were also wounded.


The Algerian army launched a search operation using helicopters
and tanks, and artillery fire could be heard throughout the night
in the Ain Defla region, according to local residents contacted
by telephone.


Last month in the same region, which is about 160 kilometers (100
miles) west of the Algerian capital, three Algerians and a
Russian man were killed in a bomb attack on a bus carrying
employees of a Russian company.


The Salafist Group for Preaching and Combat (GSPC), which now
calls itself the Armed Branch of Al-Qaeda in Islamic Maghreb,
claimed responsibility.


Saturday's ambush, for which no-one has yet claimed
responsibility, follows a military operation against the GSPC
that began a couple of weeks ago.


About 30 Islamists have been killed in the mountainous region
east of Algiers, according to media reports, although the
military has not provided details of the operation.


At least 33 people, including about 15 security officers, have
been killed in clashes since the beginning of April, according to
official numbers and media reports.


Violence in Algeria, however, has declined over the last four
years. In February 2006, the government offered pardons for
Islamists who surrendered.

