

The armed Basque separatist group ETA Sunday declared a renewed
commitment to peace and a willingness to engage with the Spanish
government if it ceased "attacks" on the Basque region in north
Spain.


In an interview published Sunday in the Basque newspaper Gara,
ETA said it could envision a "scenario with no more violence."


If the "attacks against Euskal Harria (the Basque country)"
cease, "we are ready to make a firm commitment to a scenario with
no violence," ETA said in the interview, published on Aberri
Eguna day, the Basque country holiday.


The separatist group also said it stood by its ceasefire
declaration of March 24 last year, even though that was
interrupted in December with an attack at Madrid's airport that
left two people dead.


ETA added however that it would not give up its arms "under the
current conditions."


"The reasons for resorting to an armed fight still exist," ETA
told the paper which is the usual vehicle for the group's
declarations.


In recent weeks, a sweep by Spanish police dismantled an ETA
commando unit, which had carried out 24 attacks between 2004 and
2006, and led to the arrests of at least nine suspected ETA
members.


A spokeswoman for Spain's Socialist government when contacted by
AFP Sunday refused to comment on the ETA report, reiterating
Madrid's stand that it expects only one thing from ETA: "a
definitive renunciation of violence."


ETA declared that the peace remains blocked and its attack on
December 30 was "a response to the permanent attacks of the
Spanish government", it said.


"Our commitment is to a process which leads to a real democratic
solution to the conflict," ETA said in its five-page statement in
Gara, accompanied with photographs of two people wearing hoods
and a Basque beret with a tape recorder at their side.


ETA has waged a 38-year-old campaign for Basque independence
which has claimed more than 800 lives.

