

A massive volcano eruption on the Indian Ocean island of Reunion
lulled Sunday after 10 days of lava flow that provided
spectacular views, but left residents in no real danger.


"We can call it the eruption of the century," said Zacharie
Duputel, a seismologist at the Volcano Observatory for the
island, a French overseas department. "We have never observed
such a phenomenon."


The eruption resulted in the collapse of the Piton de la
Fournaise volcano's summit, with magma at times being spewed as
high as 200 metres (656 feet) into the air.


The lava had cut off a national highway as it spurted toward the
sea at 60 kilometres (38 miles) per hour, creating clouds of gas
as it made contact with water.


On Sunday, lava reached only 10 metres (33 feet) in height,
according to the observatory. There was less activity within the
crater, though entire sections of rock continued to collapse.


About 100 residents were evacuated from a village in southeastern
Reunion on Friday, with some believing they could see lava
approaching.


They were allowed to return to their homes two hours later,
however. What was believed to be lava turned out to be a forest
fire caused by projections of burning ashes.


About a dozen families have decided not to return to their homes
anyway, said Guy Riviere, deputy mayor for the eastern city of
Saint-Philippe and an agent for the Office of National Forests.


While houses have not been affected, residents continue to hear
loud rumbling. Eight houses were destroyed by lava flow in March
1986.


About 300 hectares of primary forest has been destroyed as well
over the past 10 days.

