

Six Turkish soldiers and one pro-Turkish militia member were
killed in clashes with Kurdish rebels in southeastern Turkey, a
local security source said on Sunday.


A previous toll on Sunday had set the number of dead soldiers at
three.


Two soldiers and a "village guard", a Kurdish militia member
armed by Ankara to fight Kurdish separatists, were killed
overnight Saturday to Sunday in clashes with members of the
Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) in the mountainous Sirnak region
that borders Iraq, according to the security source.


A third soldier died when a PKK mine exploded in the eastern
Bitlis province, added the source, who asked not to be named.


Meanwhile, three soldiers were killed in fighting with PKK rebels
in Yayladag in the eastern Bingol province on Saturday afternoon,
the Anatolia news agency reported, adding that a large-scale
operation was underway in the area.


Those deaths came after two Turkish soldiers and two Kurdish
rebels were killed in clashes in Bitlis on Friday. Four troops
were injured in that fighting.


With a total of nine deaths in the past two days, the pro-Turkish
troops have suffered their heaviest casualties in months.


The rebels have recently been taking advantage of the end of
winter to launch attacks in Turkish territory from their bases in
the mountains of northern Iraq, where Ankara's troops cannot
strike back at them.


More than 37,000 people have been killed since 1984 when the PKK,
which is considered a terrorist organisation by Turkey, the
United States and the European Union, took up arms for self-rule
in the mainly Kurdish southeast of Turkey.


The PKK announced a ceasefire in October, but Turkish authorities
rejected it. Violence related to the conflict has however since
dwindled.

