

The families of five Iranians held for three months in US
detention in Iraq met an International Committee of the Red Cross
representative on Sunday to ask for news about them, state media
said.


The meeting came after an Iranian diplomat kidnapped in Baghdad
in February said after his release last week that he had been
tortured "day and night" and interrogated by CIA officials.
Washington denied the claims.


"The families of the five kidnapped diplomats asked the ICRC to
play a more active role in alleviating their concerns," state
radio reported.


"The families asked for video footage of the detained diplomats
to reduce their concern," the radio said, adding that the ICRC
had described the request as beyond the organisation's authority.


"The ICRC representative reassured them over the detainees'
physical condition and expressed a willingness to transfer their
families' letters to them," it said.


Foreign ministry spokesman Mohammad Ali Hosseini said earlier
that no Iranian official has so far visited the men, who were
arrested in northern Iraq in January on accusations of seeking to
stir the insurgency.


ICRC representatives have seen the detainees twice, and the US
confirmed there were no Iranians among the visiting team.


On January 11, US troops seized the five Iranians from the
northern Iraqi city of Arbil, accusing them of being members of
Iranian intelligence. Tehran says the men are diplomats who were
working for a "consulate."


The United States has rejected any notion that Tehran's surprise
release of the 15 British sailors it held for almost two weeks
could help win the release of the five detained Iranians.


However just days before the release of the British sailors,
Jalal Sharafi, second secretary at the Iranian embassy in
Baghdad, was freed by his unidentified captors.


Iran accused the United States and elements linked to the Iraqi
defence ministry of being behind his abduction.

