

Algerian Energy Minister Chakib Khelil said on Sunday that a
proposal to form an OPEC-like cartel by gas exporting nations was
still only an "idea" which may be discussed at a meeting this
week in Doha.


"This is still an idea that has not reached a level that makes us
say that gas producing and exporting countries would form an
organisation," Khelil told AFP in Doha.


"I don't know if anyone has made a proposal" to discuss the idea,
he said. "If someone proposes it (at the meeting), we will
discuss it."


Qatar, which aspires to become the world's top exporter of
liquefied natural gas (LNG), is from Monday to host the two-day
sixth ministerial meeting of the Gas Exporting Countries Forum
(GECF).


The possibility of a gas cartel has been floated in recent weeks,
mainly by Iran, which is a member of GECF, an informal structure
grouping 15 nations that was founded in 2001.


"The GECF countries are cooperating and coordinating in the
fields of data and projects and we will continue on the same
path," Khelil said.


The forum includes Russia, Iran, Qatar, Venezuela and Algeria,
which together control 72 percent of the world's gas reserves and
42 percent of production.


The idea of a "gas OPEC" gained momentum in August last year when
Europe's two main natural gas suppliers, Russia's Gazprom and
Algeria's Sonatrach, signed a partnership accord.


It was given a further boost in February when Russian President
Vladimir Putin, whose country's massive gas resources account for
nearly 30 percent of known world reserves and 20 percent of
production, said it was "interesting."


But Russia's Energy Minister Viktor Khristenko said on Friday
that Moscow would never take part in such an organisation.

