

Pope Benedict XVI on Sunday expressed "apprehension" over the
plight of Africans in several parts of the world's poorest
continent, notably Zimbabwe, Darfur and Somalia.


"I look with apprehension at the conditions prevailing in several
regions of Africa," he said in his traditional "Urbi et Orbi" (to
the city and the world) blessing from the loggia of St Peter's
Basilica.


"Zimbabwe is in the grip of a grievous crisis, and for this
reason the bishops of that country in a recent document indicated
prayer and a shared commitment for the common good as the only
way forward," he said.


The bishops opposed a crackdown on the opposition Movement for
Democratic Change, with assaults and detentions of its members
including leader Morgan Tsvangirai, who was arrested twice last
month


They said the crackdown "shows much disrespect for human life and
falls far below the dignity of both the perpetrator and the
victim."


The pope said Sunday: "In Darfur and in the neighbouring
countries, there is a catastrophic, and sadly to say
underestimated, humanitarian situation," referring to the western
state of Sudan and neighbouring Chad and the Central African
Republic.


According to the United Nations, at least 200,000 people have
died and more than two million fled their homes since the Darfur
conflict erupted in February 2003. Some sources say the death
toll is much higher.


"In Kinshasa in the Democratic Republic of the Congo the violence
and looting of the past weeks raises fears for the future of the
Congolese democratic process and the reconstruction of the
country," the pope said.


"In Somalia, the renewed fighting has driven away the prospect of
peace and worsened a regional crisis, especially with regard to
the displacement of populations and the traffic of arms," he
said.

