

Felipe Massa remained defiant and determined Sunday night after
his mistake cost Ferrari any chance of stopping the triumphant
McLaren Mercedes-Benz team from dominating the Malaysian Grand
Prix.


The 25-year-old Brazilian, who started from pole position but
finished the race fifth, said also that he was surprised at the
sheer pace of the McLarens driven by victorious Spaniard Fernando
Alonso and his young partner Lewis Hamilton.


"I tried something and it did not work out, but that is what I
had to do - that is what life is for! I cannot blame myself for
that. Next time, I hope, things will go a lot better."


Massa's Ferrari team-mate Finn Kimi Raikkonen finished third to
follow up his victory in the season-opening Australian Grand Prix
with a podium and points, but the team were crestfallen as they
packed up to leave the Sepang International Circuit.


"This is definitely a disappointing result, we certainly expected
better," said team chief Jean Todt. "Now we know we are up
against a very strong and battle- ready opponent who did a better
job than us today.


"So, next week, at Sakhir, in Bahrain, we will try to take our
chance to make up for this."


Massa started from pole, but was unable to exploit that
advantage. At the first corner, he was passed by Alonso -- and
then, at the second, he was passed by Hamilton.


The Brazilian tried to attack Hamilton and recover his lost
positions, but he was out-witted on the third lap and then slid
off the circuit on the fifth lap.


"Yes, I am surprised at the pace of the McLarens, but not their
performance. They have a fantastic team with two great drivers,
but I am surprised at how fast they were.


"It just means that we have to work harder to try and stay in
front of them."

