

Marat Safin kept defending champions Russia on course in the
Davis Cup on Sunday by defeating Paul-Henri Mathieu 7-6 (7/3),
6-3, 6-2 in the deciding rubber to give Russia a 3-2 victory and
end French hopes at the quarter-final stage for a third
consecutive year.


Russia now advance to another home semi-final in September
against Germany, who wrapped up their place with a day to spare
on Saturday, going on to beat Belgium 3-2 in Ostend.


The second semi-final will see the United States host Sweden,
after they also both won their home ties Saturday against Spain
and Argentina respectively.


Safin proved to be the hero again for Russia after winning the
deciding rubber for the fifth time in his career including last
year when he helped them win their second Davis Cup title in
Moscow.


Despite his recent poor form the big-hitter, who lost two of his
three previous head-to-head meetings with Mathieu, produced 15
aces to prevail in two hours 28 minutes.


"I didn't expect our skipper would put me on court this weekend
and of course I never expected it would be so easy as I could not
find my form in the last two months," said Safin.


Sebastien Grosjean had handed France a lifeline earlier, beating
Igor Andreev to level proceedings at 2-2.


On Friday Mathieu gave France the advantage after he battled back
from a set down to beat Nikolay Davydenko 2-6, 6-2, 6-1, 7-5 in
the opening rubber.


Mikhail Youzhny then beat Richard Gasquet of France in a marathon
five-setter 6-2, 6-3, 6-7 (8/10), 5-7, 8-6 to level proceedings
at 1-1.


Davydenko and Igor Andreev put Russia 2-1 up on Satuday with a
surprise doubles victory over the French duo Michael Llodra and
Grosjean 3-6, 7-5, 6-3, 3-6, 6-3.


Germany, meanwhile, took an unassailable 3-0 lead over Belgium on
Saturday when doubles duo Alexander Waske and Michael Kohlmann
beat brothers Olivier and Christophe Rochus 4-6, 6-2, 6-3, 6-1.


The win added to the singles victories Friday of Tommy Haas over
Kristof Vliegen 6-7 (4/7), 7-5, 6-4, 6-2 and Philipp
Kohlschreiber over Olivier Rochus 6-3, 7-5, 7-6 (7/4).


Belgium won Sunday's two dead rubbers with Christophe Rochus
beating Michael Kohlmann 3-6, 6-4, 6-4 and Dick Norman ousting
Philipp Kohlschreiber 6-2, 6-3.


It is the first time since 1995 that Germany have reached the
Davis Cup semi- finals.


"The journey is not over yet," said German captain Patrik Kuhnen.


"We made a strong statement here in Belgium and want more. We are
in the wonderful position of being the hunter."


Russia lead Germany 5-3 in previous meetings.


In Gothenburg, Sweden made up for their humiliating whitewash a
year ago against last year's finalists Argentina by winning
through 4-1 to reach the last four for the first time since 2001.


Juan-Martin Del Potro prevented a Swedish whitewash by defeating
Robert Lindstedt 7-6 (7/4), 6-2, 6-3 in Sunday's final rubber
after Jonas Bjorkman had earlier beaten Sebastian Prieto 6-1,
6-2.


Sweden won both Friday's opening singles on the indoors carpet
surface when Thomas Johansson beat David Nalbandian 6-7 (3/7),
7-6 (7/2), 6-2, 7-6 (7/0) and Robin Soderling got the better of
Juan Martin del Potro 7-6 (7/4), 7-6 (7/4), 6-4.


In North Carolina the United States took a 3-0 lead over a
Spanish side playing without world No. 2 Rafael Nadal on
Saturday.


As expected, doubles duo Bob and Mike Bryan and Mike Bryan
defeated Feliciano Lopez and Fernando Verdasco 7-5, 6-3, 3-6, 7-6
(7/5) on the indoor hardcourts to give the Americans an
unbeatable lead.


Their 11th Davis Cup match win from a total 12 sent the 31-time
champion Americans into the final four. James Blake and Andy
Roddick had given the US a 2-0 lead on Friday, Blake with a 6-4,
6-3, 6-4 win over Tommy Robredo and Roddick with a 7-6 (7/5),
6-1, 6-4 victory over Verdasco.

