

Some 3,000 people staged a march in Rome on Sunday to press the
Italian government to step up efforts for a UN resolution calling
for a world moratorium on the death penalty.


The marchers, who ended their procession at St Peter's Square as
Pope Benedict XVI was delivering his traditional Easter address,
carried white balloons and held placards saying "We want a UN
moratorium soon."


The march was organised by Marco Panella and Emma Bonino, who
lead the small libertarian Radical party, as well as the Roman
Catholic Sant'Egidio Community.


"Everybody agrees (that the death penalty should be abolished)
but nobody does anything," Panella said.


Bonino, a former EU commissioner who doubles as the external
trade minister, added: "We are here to back the government
initiative to get the UN General Assembly to adopt a resolution
on the moratorium."


According to Amnesty International, 128 countries have abolished
the death penalty in law or practice, while 69 countries and
territories retain and use capital punishment, although the
number of countries which actually execute prisoners in any one
year is much smaller.


The Italian government said in January, when it became a member
of the UN Security Council, that it would use its tenure to get
such a resolution passed but has yet to forward any such
proposal.


Former Italian president Francesco Cossiga and Rome Mayor Walter
Veltroni took part in Sunday's march, which had the backing of
current President Giorgio Napolitano, Prime Minister Romano
Prodi, about 15 ministers and several left- wing parties as well
as some figures from the right and many associations.


The protesters hoped that the pope would mention their cause, but
it was absent from his "Urbi et Orbi" (to the city and the world)
Easter message.

