

North Korea's International Olympic Committee (IOC) member Jang
Ung on Sunday said it would be right for the two Koreas to field
a joint team for the 2008 Beijing Olympics.


"We belong to one nation and we have the same blood. This is my
answer to the issue of forming a unified team for the Beijing
Olympics," Jang said, in reference to negotiations by both Koreas
to pick a joint team for the 2008 event.


"Though not involved in the work of the national Olympic
committees, I understand things seem to go well," he added in an
interview with local SBS television.


Despite his upbeat comments, at the latest negotiations in
February the two countries failed to agree on how to select the
squad. Seoul wants selection on athletes' merits, while Pyongyang
seeks equal representation.


The talks were the fourth round since the two sides agreed in
principle to form a joint Olympic team in early 2004.


Jang, who heads the International Taekwondo Federation, also
called for progress in unifying the North Korean body and its
South Korean counterpart, the World Taekwondo Federation.


"Our nation has been divided. Taekwondo should not be so," he
said.


The two federations agreed in Qatar last December to form a
coordinating body to discuss a merger. Its first meeting was held
in Beijing on March 31.


The two Koreas, which have remained technically at war since the
1950-53 conflict, seek rapprochement through sports exchanges.


Despite tensions after North Korea's nuclear test in October,
they marched together at the opening ceremony of the Asian Games
in Qatar in December.


South and North Korea have fielded a unified team for a world
soccer championship and world table tennis championship, both in
the early 1990s, but never for such a major event as the Olympics
or Asian Games.

