

Al-Jazeera satellite news channel broadcast a video recording
Sunday of what it said was one of the most wanted members of
ousted Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein's regime still on the run.


The Qatar-based network gave no date for the purported footage of
elite Republican Guards chief Saifeddin Fulayh Hassan Taha al-
Rawi, who was number 14 on the most wanted list drawn up by the
US military for the 2003 invasion.


Rawi, who carries a one million dollar US bounty on his head, was
also jack of spades on the "deck of cards" of 55 most wanted
supects distributed by the Pentagon at the outset of the
invasion.


In the footage shown, Rawi accuses US forces of using neutron and
phosphorus bombs during their assault on Baghdad airport ahead of
the April 9 capture of the Iraqi capital.


His face is difficult to identify due to low light, but he is
seen sitting in what appears to be a living room wearing a black
and white kefiya, the traditional Arab headdress.


"The enemy used neutron and phosporus weapons against Baghdad
airport... there were bodies burnt to their bones," he charses,
adding that elite Iraqi soldiers "fought until they were
martyred."


Rawi said the Iraqi military command had expected the US-led air
war to last much longer before the launch of the land offensive,
as a reason for the rapid collapse of Saddam's forces.


"We had not expected the enemy to launch its land offensive from
the very first or second day" of the onslaught. "We expected the
air raids to last at least a month," the former officer said.


"The land offensive came at the same time as the air offensive.
That was a situation we did not expect," he told Al-Jazeera,
which said it would later air more of the interview to coincide
with the fourth anniversary of the war.

