

Six NATO soldiers who were killed Sunday by a roadside bomb in
southern Afghanistan were identified as Canadian, local media
said, the deadliest single attack on NATO forces in the country
this year.


The attack took place in the province of Helmand where NATO
troops are fighting the Taliban, the public television channel
CBC reported, quoting Prime Minister Stephen Harper.


Harper made the announcement while in France attending a ceremony
commemorating Canada's role in the 1917 battle of Vimy.


Earlier, NATO said in a statement that six NATO-led soldiers died
from injuries sustained Sunday in a mine explosion in southern
Afghanistan, while a seventh was killed a separate blast. The
nationality of the seventh soldier was unknown.


"Six ISAF soldiers died today in southern Afghanistan as a result
of injuries sustained when the vehicle they were traveling in hit
an explosive device," the International Security Assistance Force
said in a statement.


The latest casualties brought to 34 the number of foreign troops
to have died in Afghanistan since January. The figure includes
those from the US-led coalition which has more than 10,000
troops.


The six deaths were the biggest number of ISAF casualties killed
in a single incident this year.


The force did not say who might have set the bomb, but similar
attacks in the past have been blamed on the Taliban militants who
have been waging an insurgency against the government and foreign
troops.


The insurgency, launched months after the ouster of the Taliban
by a US-led invasion in late 2001, intensified last year.


As part of their campaign the Taliban have widely used roadside
bombs, which many say are a tactic copied from insurgents
fighting the US-led coalition force in Iraq.

