

Italian Giancarlo Fisichella overcame a nasty medical condition
and the stifling heat to finish a satisfying sixth for Renault in
Sunday's Malaysian Grand Prix.


Afterwards he said it felt like a podium finish for him because
he was fighting the conditions as well as racing and had been
taking medicine for several days.


"That was a really tough race for me because I haven't felt well
for several days and I've been taking medications, so I was
suffering," he said afterwards.


"Luckily, I have a good physical preparation which allowed me to
be consistent and perfect in the race without making any
mistakes.


"I'm happy with my race today because it's like getting on the
podium. It was the maximum we could do. I had a great, aggressive
start when overtaking cars and that was my only hope of getting
points today.


"I think I overtook four cars. After that, the car was better in
race pace -- it was more consistent. Now, we wait for a better
car from the team in order to fight for the top positions."


His rookie team-mate Finn Keikki Kovalianen finished eighth to
claim his first point in his second race after a very
disappointing debut in Australia.


He said: "This was my first F1 point, so it's a nice feeling
after such a tough race," said the Finn. "I attacked every lap
today, just pushing as hard as possible to try and make up
positions.


"The balance was similar to qualifying, and a little
unpredictable in the high speed corners which meant I had some
moments in turn 6, but that happens when you are on the limit.


"For me, the race was a definite step forward compared to
Melbourne, and our competitiveness was better than we showed in
qualifying.


"I think we are moving in the right direction, and I know the
team will stay strong and keep their heads up, even though we are
not winning at the moment. Hopefully, we can take another step in
Bahrain next weekend."

