

Thousands of supporters of Iraq's radical Shiite cleric Moqtada
al-Sadr on Sunday prepared to stage a massive anti-US rally on
Monday's fourth anniversary of the fall of Baghdad, police said.


Police Colonel Ali Jiraou confirmed that thousands of Sadr
movement members were in Najaf south of Baghdad and that security
measures were being made to protect them.


Hundreds of Iraqi flags were raised over government buildings in
Najaf and in public squares, according to an AFP journalist.


The demonstration is scheduled to begin on Monday outside Sadr's
mosque in Kufa and proceed into the twin Shiite shrine city of
Najaf, a member of Sadr's office in Najaf told AFP on condition
of anonymity.


He said thousands of Sadr sympathisers were travelling to Najaf
to join the demonstration against the US-led foreign "occupation"
of Iraq.


"It will be an Iraqi demonstration in the name of all Iraqis. We
will raise the Iraqi flag and also banners demanding that the
occupation leave," he said.


Oudha Mohammed, a representative of Sadr in the southern Shiite
city of Basra, said thousands of residents had left for Najaf
following Sadr's call to demonstrate against the "occupation."


A spokesman for Najaf governorate, Ahmed Duaibil, confirmed that
a joint committee of Sadr supporters and provincial
administrators would be set up to ensure the safety of
protesters.


On March 30, Sheikh Abdul Hadi al-Muhamadawi, speaking on behalf
of Sadr in Kufa, urged Iraqis to protest on April 9, the fourth
anniversary of the fall of Baghdad and the overthrow of former
president Saddam Hussein.


Sadr, whose Mahdi Army militia is branded the most dangerous
element in Iraq by the Pentagon and whom the Americans believe
has fled to Iran, has always demanded that US troops leave the
country.

