

An Indian freighter freed by pirates off the Somali coast this
week docked at the country's main port of Mogadishu Sunday to
offload cargo before sailing back to Dubai, a maritime official
said.


The MV Nimatullah sailed to Mogadishu, where it was seized last
weekend and taken to northeastern Somalia before being released
on Thursday, to offload its 800 tonnes of household goods at the
war-torn capital, said Andrew Mwangura of the Seafarers'
Association Programme.


"The MV Nimatullah has safely anchored at port Mogadishu and she
is expected to discharge her 800 tonnes of cargo tomorrow or the
day after tomorrow before sailing back to Dubai," Mwangura said
in a statement.


"The vessel was seized by Somali pirates who were demanding
ransom ranging between 20,000 and 50,000 dollars," he added,
without saying whether the ransom was paid.


The ship was released alongside a UN-chatered cargo vessel that
was captured late February with its 12-man crew after ferrying
relief food to the impoverished, war-battered nation.


Both vessels were held three kilometres off a small fishing
village in Somalia's semi-autonomous region of Puntland to the
north.


Earlier in the week, pirates also attempted to capture another
ship as it anchored at the Mogadishu port, but escaped seizure
after port officials sent in speed boats to fight off the armed
hijackers.


The 3,700-kilometer unpatrolled Somali coast saw scores of pirate
attacks between March 2005 and June last year, but these stopped
during six months of strict rule by a now-vanquished Islamist
movement that controlled much of south and central Somalia.

