

A leading member of the main Czech governing party said on
television on Sunday that he would refuse to support the
coalition government's tax and spending reform programme unveiled
last week.


Former finance minister Vlastimil Tlusty told commercial TV
channel Prima that the package did not offer the flat tax or
simplified tax regime promised by the right-wing Civic Democrats
ahead of last year's elections.


"If the errors are not removed, I think everybody will understand
that I cannot sign up to this," he said.


Other right-wing lawmakers have echoed Tlusty's reservations
about the tax package.


It will bring in a single 15 percent tax rate for all earners,
benefiting high earners the most, but also increase the lowest
rate of value added tax from five to nine percent.


Prime Minister Mirek Topolanek repeated in a newspaper interview
on Saturday that his fragile coalition government would resign if
its tax and spending package was not approved in parliament. The
vote is expected in June.


The centre-right government, which only won a crucial vote of
confidence in January thanks to two left-wing defectors, has no
guaranteed majority in the 200-seat lower house.


The three-party coalition, painfully pieced together following a
seven month- long political crisis, is also threatened by a
corruption scandal surrounding deputy prime minister and
Christian Democrat leader Jiri Cunek.


Junior coalition party the Greens have called for Cunek to
resign, warning that they could quit the coalition if he does not
act soon.

