

Indian captain Rahul Dravid on Sunday dismissed any talk of a
rift between players and the board, but requested a meeting to
iron out "irksome" issues.


Dravid insisted there was no conflict between star players and
the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) after the
authorities announced a clampdown on the players' outside
interests, a statement released to the media said.


"It is not correct to project this whole issue as a conflict of
commercial interests of the players and the BCCI. Let me clarify
that there is no conflict between the players' and the BCCI," he
said.


India's cricket chiefs on Saturday introduced performance-linked
payments to the national team, saying that only by winning will
they earn more money.


It also scrapped special contracts for senior players following
the team's first round exit from the World Cup in the Caribbean
after losing to Bangladesh and Sri Lanka.


Players will also not be allowed to endorse more than three
sponsors, a move that had been recommended by a group of former
captains on Friday.


"The interests of the players and the BCCI are inclusive and not
exclusive. The BCCI has always been very caring and considerate
about the players' interests and I am sure that the BCCI would
discuss the issue with the players at a suitable time," Dravid's
statement added.


"When this opportunity arises then we shall jointly examine the
areas of concern and bother and crease out the irksome issues,"
he added.


Indian players are sought after by companies to endorse their
products in a country where cricket is the most popular sport.


Superstar Sachin Tendulkar, regarded as one of the world's
richest cricketers, reportedly has around seven sponsorships
worth 400 million dollars.


Team members were previously paid 3,400 dollars for a one-day
international and 4,500 dollars for Test matches, in addition to
annual contracts ranging from 110,000 dollars to 45,000 dollars.

