

Tuberculosis has reached "alarming" levels in the Marshall
Islands despite aggressive attempts to detect and treat the
deadly disease, a specialist said.


Some 126 new cases were recorded in the Pacific island nation of
60,000 people last year, statistics released by the Ministry of
Health showed.


"It's alarming," said tuberculosis consultant Subroto Banerji
from the US Center for Disease Control.


Banerji said the figures were up from 121 new cases the previous
year.


The infection rate is nearly four times the average in the
Pacific region and 47 times the rate in the United States.


"But (the Ministry of Health) is going all out to identify and
treat cases. In other countries, it takes 10 years to make an
impact and bring the rate down," Banerji said.


A TB eradiciton programme was only launched here three years ago,
said Kennar Briand, the director of public health for the
Marshall Islands.


The geography of the nation is a challenge to controlling the
disease which infects the lungs and is usually transitted through
coughing and sneezing.


Although the population is relatively small, people live on
islands scattered across 500,000 square miles (1.29 million
square kilometres) of ocean, and many islands are accessible only
by small boats.


A screening problem has been introduced along with treatment
programmes, Briand said.


Two serious challenges to TB control in the country are the high
rate of diabetes, which compromises people's immune systems,
making it more difficult to treat TB, and getting islanders to
complete the minimum six-month course of daily treatment.


"After a few months of taking the medicines, some patients think
they are cured because their symptoms go away. But they're not,"
Briand said.


This problem resulted in the discovery of two drug-resistant TB
cases, which require a longer treatment period and more expensive
and toxic drugs.

