

More than 1,000 protesters rallied against Thailand's junta
Sunday, police said, despite a government warning that anti-coup
rallies could provoke a state of emergency in the capital.


The protesters, led by allies of ex-premier Thaksin Shinawatra,
who was deposed in a coup last September, organised the
demonstration at Sanam Luang park outside Bangkok's municipal
centre.


Police Major General Manit Wongsomboon said he had deployed about
1,000 police, both uniformed and plainclothes officers, around
Sanam Luang area, where about 1,200 demonstrators gathered early
Sunday evening.


The crowd held banners attacking the military-installed
government headed by former general Surayud Chulanont, and called
for the return of Thaksin.


Manit said the police presence was heavy because of a parallel
gathering at Sanam Luang marking the start of celebrations for
Buddhist New Year.


A similar rally last Friday attracted between 2,000 and 3,000.
Junta leader General Sonthi Boonyaratglin had urged the
government to declare an emergency last month in the face of
small but growing protests against the coup.


Surayud refused, but defence minister Boonrawd Somtas on Saturday
warned that a state of emergency would be declared if the
protests got out of control.


The protest movement is beginning to create an odd coalition of
allies, with some pro-democracy groups, who last year protested
against Thaksin, now joining forces with his allies in rallying
against the junta.

