

Around 124,000 people have fled the volatile Somali capital
Mogadishu in the past two months as violence escalated in the
war-torn capital, the UN refugee agency said Sunday.


About one-tenth of them fled in the past week alone, with the
majority deserting Mogadishu last month, the UN High Commission
for Refugees (UNHCR) said in its latest report on the clashes in
the Somali capital.


Somalia recently suffered its worst violence in the past 15 years
when an Ethiopian offensive against insurgents triggered four
days of battles in Mogadishu, killing hundreds and forcing tens
of thousands to flee.


"Most of the displaced have headed to the neighbouring regions,"
the agency said, referring to the Lower and Middle Shabelle
regions near Mogadishu.


A few of the displaced left for the semi-autonomous northern
region of Puntland, it added.


Local militia and remnants of a defeated Islamist movement have
mounted attacks against the Ethiopian and government forces
camped in different locations around the capital since their
arrival there in late December.


A local rights group, which compiled figures from hospitals and
witnesses, said 381 civilians had died and 565 were wounded in
the four days of clashes between March 29 and April 1.


Somalia has lacked an effective central government since the
ousting of former dictator Mohamed Siad Barre in 1991 touched off
a bloody power struggle that exploded into inter-clan warfare.
More than 14 attempts to restore a functional government in
Somalia have since failed.

