

The Detroit Pistons let a 10-point fourth quarter lead slip away,
but Chauncey Billups made sure they didn't let go of a victory
Sunday in the National Basketball Association.


Billups made a string of clutch shots and plays in the final
three minutes as the Pistons regrouped for an 87-82 victory over
the Cleveland Cavaliers that kept them securely atop the Eastern
Conference.


Richard Hamilton scored 21 points to lead a balanced attack for
the Pistons, who improved to 49-27 and moved 3 1/2 games in front
of Chicago and four ahead of Cleveland in the race for the
Central Division title and best record in the East.


With just six games remaining, the Pistons appear to have pulled
clear of the rest of the conference.


But they might have been feeling some pressure but for Billups,
who once again saved his best for the game's biggest moments.


He scored six of his 14 points down the stretch and added 12
assists.


A jumper by Zydrunas Ilgauskas - Cleveland's last basket - opened
an 80-78 lead with 3:11 to play. Billups responded with
consecutive jumpers from almost the identical spot on the left
baseline.


After two free throws by LeBron James tied it for the last time
at the 1:42 mark, Billups baited the lumbering Ilgauskas into a
foul on a pick-and-roll. His two free throws gave Detroit the
lead for good with 1:29 left.


Ilgauskas missed a jumper, and Billups drove and passed to
Antonio McDyess for a dunk and an 86-82 lead with 45 seconds
remaining. After James missed a pair from the line, Billups
hooked up again with McDyess, who was fouled and split the free
throws for the final margin.

