

Arnold Schwarzenegger, the Republican governor of California, is
set to attend this year's Conservative Party conference in
England, the Tories announced on Monday.


The former Hollywood action star will deliver a speech on climate
change at the opposition party's annual meeting in the
northwestern coastal town of Blackpool.


Under Schwarzenegger's leadership, California became the first
American state to impose a mandatory ceiling on environmentally
harmful "greenhouse gas" emissions.


"Governor Schwarzenegger led a dramatic revival of his party's
fortunes in California and as governor he has shown tremendous
leadership -- above all in pioneering measures to protect the
environment, reaching out to political opponents in doing so,"
Tory party leader David Cameron said.


"It's great he's coming to our party conference, and I very much
look forward to welcoming him there."


Schwarzenegger has previously allied with Prime Minister Tony
Blair to announce a cooperation agreement between Britain and
California last July to tackle the environmental and economic
consequences of climate change.


The environment has become increasingly important in British
politics in recent months, with the government last month making
Britain the first country in the world to outline a legal
framework for forcing cuts in greenhouse gases.


After the announcement of the climate change bill, Blair gave a
television interview alongside Schwarzenegger, who hailed him as
an "action hero" for his leadership in the fight to combat
climate change.

