

The southern French city of Aix-en-Provence has unveiled its
plans for welcoming the New Zealand rugby union team when it
arrives for the World Cup in September.


Aix city leaders have signed an agreement with the French rugby
federation and the World Cup organising committee to facilitate
the September 16-29 stay of the All Blacks, overwhelming
favourites to win their first World Cup since their success in
the inaugural 1987 tournament.


The All Blacks, whose first game is against Italy at Marseille's
Velodrome stadium on September 8, will be based there for the
start of the September 6-October 20 tournament before moving to
nearby Aix.


"Managers often find the need to cut down on the length (of
training camps) to avoid spending seven weeks in the same place,"
said French rugby federation president Bernard Lapasset.


Authorities in Aix will put the Carcassonne stadium at the All
Blacks' disposal along with the adjoining military school
gymnasium complex.


Aix deputy mayor Maryse Joissains added that there were plans for
up to 800 aspiring local rugby players to attend at least one
training session that will be open to the public.


Choreographer Angelin Preljocaj, artistic director of the Aix-
based "Pavillon noir", France's national centre of dance, will
also produce a show inspired by the "haka", the Maori war-dance
usually performed by the All Blacks before a match.


Former French flanker Jean-Pierre Rives, who captained the
national team 34 times in 59 appearances but now a sculptor of
world reknown, has also got in to the act, with an exhibition of
his sculpture planned.


According to the head of the organising committee, Etienne
Thobois, around 3,000 tickets for the matches scheduled at
Marseille have already been bought up by New Zealand nationals.

