

Shares in British chemical group Imperial Chemical Industries hit
a 2007 high on Wednesday amid speculation that the group could
become the subject of a takeover bidding war.


Cash-rich Dutch chemicals group Akzo Nobel has long been
considered a likely bidder for ICI, but analysts speculated
Wednesday that US rival Dow Chemical was also on the prowl.


Shares in ICI struck 561 pence on Wednesday after rising by more
than 7.0 percent on Tuesday. At the close, they showed a loss of
0.32 percent at 538 pence.


Akzo Nobel NV has consistently been named as a serious buyer
following the recent sale of its drugs business Organon
Biosciences for 11 billion euros (14.7 billion dollars).


Analysts say that Akzo Nobel is considering offering 6.0 billion
pounds (8.9 billion euros, 11.9 billion dollars) for the group,
known for its Dulux brand, though some analysts think it could
afford to pay as much as seven pounds bid to clinch the deal.


"We believe there is a risk that Akzo Nobel will overpay on ICI,"
cautioned analysts at Dutch brokerage SNS Securities.


ICI landed on deal-makers' watch lists after it sold its troubled
flavours and fragrance unit, Quest, for 1.2 billion pounds late
last year.


The disposal of debt-laden Quest leaves the slimmed down group a
better fit for any company wanting to expand into the highly
lucrative coatings business.


Most analysts agree that a bid is likely, but uncertainty about
the timing of an approach is set to keep shares highly volatile
in the coming days.


"We're not ruling out (a bid for ICI). But until an official
announcement is made, it's literally just a market rumour," said
an analyst at a leading brokerage.

