

Tehran has asked Washington for details on a retired FBI agent
missing in Iran for weeks, a State Department spokesman said
Wednesday.


"Iranians have said that they were looking into this matter and
asked us for additional information including our best
understanding of when he arrived on Kish island and other kinds
of details about his travel," Tom Casey said.


"We received a response to our diplomatic note saying that they
would look into this but also asking for those details. We will
certainly provide them those details," he told reporters.


"So we'll see if they come up with anything but they certainly
did not have any specific information for us," Casey said.


US officials stressed that Washington saw no connection between
the man's disappearance and the 15 British naval personnel seized
by Iran on March 23 allegedly for trespassing into Iranian
waters.


US officials have said the man went missing while visiting Kish,
a small island off Iran's southern coast that has grown into a
major resort and consumer duty- free trade zone. Press reports
said he was researching a documentary.


Amid growing tensions between Iran and the West, the United
States said earlier this week it had asked Tehran for information
about the missing man, passing a message via Swiss
intermediaries.


Washington and Tehran broke diplomatic ties 27 years ago and US
interests in Iran are conducted via Switzerland.


"There is no concrete evidence that a US citizen has entered
Kish," said an unnamed local official quoted by IRNA late
Tuesday.


The Washington Post reported the man's name is Robert Levinson of
Coral Springs, Florida.


The former agent for the Federal Bureau of Investigation is an
expert in organized crime.


An official with the Federal Bureau of Investigation confirmed
that the missing man was a retired agent formerly with the FBI.

