

European stock markets closed mostly higher on Wednesday as
falling crude oil prices and Iran's decision to release the
British sailors it had been holding brought relief to investors.


At the close, the London FTSE 100 index was off earlier lows, but
showed a loss of 0.02 percent to 6,364.70 points.


But elsewhere in Europe most markets were higher, with the CAC 40
in Paris up 0.47 percent at 5,739.01 points while in Frankfurt
the Dax added 0.4 percent to 7,073.91 points.


The DJ Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone blue chip shares rose 0.37
percent to 4,263.81.


The euro stood at 1.3368 dollars.


US stocks showed modest gains on the news from Iran, which
overshadowed weaker- than-expected US economic data.


The Institute of Supply Management said its index for the vast US
services sector was at 52.4 percent in March from 54.3 percent a
month earlier, suggesting slowing growth.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average drifted up 0.09 percent to
12,521.19 while the Nasdaq composite added 0.21 percent to
2,455.48 at 1515 GMT.


The Standard and Poor's 500 broad-market index added a fractional
0.05 percent to 1,438.54.


Iran said Wednesday it had released the 15 British sailors as a
"gift" to the people of Britain in a dramatic end to a two-week
ordeal that had triggered a new diplomatic crisis between Tehran
and the West.


The tense standoff had caused cautious trading on financial
markets and had pushed up oil prices because of fears about
Iranian supplies.


Oil prices fell, with the price of Brent North Sea crude for May
delivery shedding 64 cents to 67.17 dollars in electronic deals.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, tumbled 85 cents to 63.79 dollars in pit trading
after touching 63.56.


Lower oil prices reduce costs for most companies, but hit the
profits of oil and gas companies.


In London, shares in British energy giant BP sank 0.18 percent to
548 pence and Royal Dutch Shell lost 0.18 percent to 1,675 pence.


In Paris, oil and gas group Total slipped 0.09 percent to 52.70
euros.


Meanwhile, NYSE Euronext, the newly merged stock market operator,
said it had a market value of 19.32 billion euros (25.81 billion
dollars), making it the world's largest listed exchange group.


Its shares listed in Paris and New York for the first time, but
fell 1.85 percent to 74.21 in Paris from the initial reference
price of 75.61 euros.


The new leviathan which was created in late March, brings markets
in New York, Paris, Brussels, Amsterdam and Lisbon under one
group and also includes the Liffe financial futures market in
London.


In Asia on Wednesday, the Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index
of leading shares rallied for a second day, jumping 1.74 percent
to finish at 17,544.09 points, as investors cheered a weaker yen
and US stock gains overnight.


Hong Kong's key Hang Seng Index closed up 1.03 percent at
20,209.71 points.


Elsewhere in Europe, in Milan the SP/Mib gained 0.03 percent to
42,412 points, in Brussels the Bel 20 added 0.24 percent to
4,558.5 points and in Amsterdam the AEX gained 0.30 percent to
517.60 euros.


The Swiss market was almost flat, with the SMI index gaining a
fractional 3.67 points to 9,057.62.


In Madrid the Ibex 35 index fell 0.07 percent to 14,943.1 points,

