

Relieved families of 15 British navy personnel detained for
nearly two weeks in Iran voiced delight Wednesday that their
relatives were coming home.


"We've been absolutely devastated these last 13 days, it's been
the longest of my life. I'm just so happy today," said April
Rawsthorne, grandmother of 21 -year-old Royal Navy sailor Nathan
Summers, clutching a bottle of champagne.


"Nathan's a very quiet person but I think he's handled himself
wonderfully," she told Sky News television from a hotel bar in
Cornwall, southwest England.


"Nathan, what can I say, we just want you home and we'll
celebrate. Thank the Lord everything has turned out well for
them."


Her husband Brian added: "He's gone from a boy to a man in these
last weeks. He looks a million dollars. He's cool."


The Cornubia Hotel put yellow ribbons up in the bar in support of
Summers.


All but one of the service personnel have been named either by
their families or on the Iranian video footage that for their
relatives were their only sign that their loved ones were alive,
well and coping.


The eight sailors and seven marines, all in their twenties, were
seized at gunpoint on March 23.


The mother of 22-year-old Royal Marine Adam Sperry said she was
in a supermarket when her daughter phoned her with news of his
release.


"The last 13 days have been awful. There was nothing that anybody
could do, it was out of our power," Sandra Sperry she told Sky
News.


"I couldn't have wished for any more support than I've had."


Her family, from Leicester in central England, was planning a
party.


"Whoever has been in the right or wrong, the whole thing has been
a political mess, so let's just get them home. It's great," said
his uncle Ray Cooper.


"It has been so stressful for Adam's mum and grandma and this is
the best Easter present they could have."

