

At least seven miners were killed when underground galleries in a
diamond mine in the Democratic Republic of Congo collapsed, a
radio report said on Wednesday.


The UN-backed Radio Okapi quoted police as saying that seven
bodies had been brought out but witnesses said dozens of people
were underground when the collapse occurred on Tuesday night.


Kasai Oriental province's governor Alphonse Ngoy Kasanji told AFP
that "for the moment the toll is three dead, but there are dozens
working illegally in those tunnels and it is very difficult to
know how many were there at the time of the accident and how many
were killed."


The vast mine complex at Bakwanga in central DRC, run by the Miba
company, is a magnet for hundreds of illegal diamond diggers, who
operate in galleries dug by the mine owners then abandoned after
the stones have been extracted.


Local human rights groups estimate that some 40,000 people are
involved in illegal mining.


The mayor of the province's main city, Mbuyi-Mayi told AFP that
one of his staff had died in the accident.


"Every day people die in the mine. Even those with a career risk
their lives for these stones," Innocent Kingwa said.


"The government must bring in companies that can stop the miners
and provide a minimum of security. Otherwise, it should make more
effort to promote agriculture and encourage people away from the
diamonds," he added.


Miba is 80 percent owned by the state with 20 percent held by the
pan-African mining company Mwana Africa. It employs some 6000
people. The complex at Bakwanga covers some 45,000 square
kilometers (18,000 square miles).

