

Reigning champions Australia have placed James Hopes on World Cup
standby cover for injured Queensland team-mate Shane Watson, it
was announced here Wednesday.


Watson sustained a left calf muscle strain in Australia's
10-wicket win against Bangladesh in Antigua on Saturday and is
now doubftul for the remainder of the tournament which concludes
with the final in Barbados on April 28.


"We have got James Hopes as a shadow player for Shane Watson,"
Australia's chairman of selectors, Andrew Hilditch, told
reporters here Wednesday.


However, the former Test batsman added: "The intention and the
expectation is that Shane will recover and play a vital part in
the World Cup."


Hopes, 28, a medium-pace all-rounder like Watson, has played nine
one-day internationals for Australia, but the last more than a
year ago against Bangladesh in Fatullah. In all he has scored 84
runs at an average of 28 and taken four wickets at 67.25


Batsman Brad Hodge is likely to come into the side for Sunday's
World Cup Super Eights match against England.


Watson, 25, has seen his international career blighted by fitness
problems. He injured his shoulder in his third Test appearance in
Brisbane in November 2005 against West Indies.


Chosen for the 2003 World Cup squad, Watson withdrew because of a
back problem and had to pull out of Australia's one-day squad
that toured Bangladesh 12 months ago because of a right calf
strain sustained while making 201 in the Pura Cup final against
Victoria.


He then missed the whole of the 2006/07 Ashes series in Australia
with a hamstring strain.


Australia, bidding for an unprecedented third successive World
Cup title, have won all five of their matches in this tournament
so far.

