

England captain Michael Vaughan won the toss and elected to field
against Sri Lanka in the World Cup Super Eights match at the Sir
Vivian Richards Stadium here Wednesday.


Sri Lanka were unchanged from the side that beat West Indies by
113 runs on Sunday and England went in with the same team that
defeated Ireland by 48 runs on Friday although all-rounder Paul
Collingwood's stiff neck on the morning of this match was a
concern.


Sri Lanka, the 1996 champions, currently have four points to lie
third in the Super Eights and England only two after losing to
fellow qualifiers New Zealand in the group stage.


England will be looking to get at least one win from this match
and Sunday's fixture here against world champions Australia as
they bid to reach the semi- finals for the first time since 1992.


Last year Sri Lanka beat hosts England 5-0 in a one-day series,
culminating in an eight-wicket win at Headingley in July where
openers Upul Tharanga (109) and Sanath Jayasuriya (152) shared a
world record first-wicket stand of 286.


Ian Bell was the only England survivor from that match.


England: Ed Joyce, Michael Vaughan (capt), Ian Bell, Kevin
Pietersen, Paul Collingwood, Andrew Flintoff, Paul Nixon (wk),
Ravi Bopara, Sajid Mahmood, James Anderson, Monty Panesar


Sri Lanka: Upul Tharanga, Sanath Jayasuriya, Kumar Sangakkara
(wk), Mahela Jayawardene (capt), Chamara Silva, Tillakaratne
Dilshan, Russel Arnold, Dilhara Fernando, Chaminda Vaas, Lasith
Malinga, Muttiah Muralitharan


Umpires: Asad Rauf (PAK), Billy Bowden (NZL)


TV umpire: Rudi Koertzen (RSA)


Match referee: Jeff Crowe (NZL)


Reserve umpire: Aleem Dar (PAK)


Pitch: Should be generally good for batting throughout but likely
to become slower and lower as game wears on. Can offer bowlers
some early assistance.


Weather: 28 degrees Centigrade (82 Fahrenheit).

