

Criminals that kidnapped two Japanese nationals in Paraguay
substantially increased their ransom demands, police said
Wednesday, adding that they were suspending their manhunt out of
fear the victims may be harmed.


Hirokazu Ota, 62, the head of Sun Myung Moon's Unification Church
in the country, and his secretary were seized on Sunday in
Caaguazu, about 200 kilometers (120 miles) east of the capital,
Asuncion.


A Paraguayan police officer, Rafael Ramos Balmori, that stopped
to help was also kidnapped along with his girlfriend.


Ota is the president of Victoria S.A, a company that manages land
assets in Paraguay owned by other members of the South Korea-
based church.


Victoria has sparked controversy for several years for buying up
thousands of hectares in the Chaco region in the country's
center.


National Police Deputy Police Chief Pedro Mendez said the
criminals are now demanding a 500,000 dollar ransom.


By Tuesday the ransom demand stood at 150,000 dollars, down from
250,000 dollars.


Investigators believe the abductors did not know who their
victims were, but raised their demands when they found out.


Mendez also said the criminals may also be angered by authorities
blocking their telephone service.


Ota and his secretary -- identified in Paraguay as Sawako
Takayama, but reports in Japan gave her family name as Yamaguchi
-- were snatched as they were driving on the road linking the
capital with Ciudad del Este, some 330 kilometers (200 miles) to
the east in the triangle where Paraguay shares a border with
Brazil and Argentina.


Ota has lived in Paraguay for 10 years.


Police said the Victoria company was in direct negotiations with
the kidnappers.

