

Greek police launched a nationwide crackdown on fireworks on
Wednesday in a bid to prevent the usual string of injuries and
even deaths during Orthodox Easter celebrations later this week.


The possession, use and trade of fireworks is banned under a 1976
law, but  the regulations are widely flouted and Greeks can
easily buy them under the counter at neighbourhood shops -- and
do so in large numbers.


Eleven people were injured by fireworks in last year's
celebrations and four have died since 2000 despite regular
warnings by police and seizures of hundreds of thousands of
firecrackers every Easter season.


Around midnight on Holy Saturday, church courtyards around Greece
resound with firework blasts, and some rural villages have even
more elaborate customs to celebrate the Resurrection.


On the Aegean island of Chios, for instance, church parishioners
of the Virgin Mary and St Mark in the village of Vrontades line
up thousands of home-made rockets and fire them at each other,
aiming at the church belfries.


"The team that scores the most hits wins. It's a custom dating
from before the 19th century, when small cannon were used," an
elderly participant told Net state television.


"I cannot tell you where the rockets are stored, because we still
haven't managed to legalise the custom ... (but) our island youth
spend an entire year preparing for it."


On the Aegean island of Kalymnos, the custom of firing dynamite
on Holy Saturday is even among the local attractions listed by
the Greek tourism board.


Police this week arrested two men in an Athens suburb and on the
island of Rhodes after confiscating over 1.2 million fireworks in
their homes.

