

US stocks held modest gains Wednesday as investors mulled news
that Iran was to free 15 British sailors, ending a two-week-old
stalemate that had been keeping markets cautious.


The news from Iran sent oil prices lower and overshadowed weaker-
than-expected US economic data.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average drifted up 10.89 points (0.09
percent) to 12,521.19 while the Nasdaq composite added 5.15
points (0.21 percent) to 2,455.48 at 1515 GMT.


The Standard and Poor's 500 broad-market index added a fractional
0.77 points (0.05 percent) to 1,438.54.


The market was digesting a big rally in the prior session that
stemmed in part from hopes of an end to the two-week-old Iran-
Britain crisis.


On the economic front, the Institute of Supply Management said
its survey of the vast US services sector resulted in a
nonmanufacturing index of 52.4 percent from 54.3 percent a month
earlier, suggesting slowing growth.


The figure was weaker than the 54.7 percent expected by Wall
Street but ahead of the 50 percent which signifies expansion.


Meanwhile the Commerce Department said US factory orders rose one
percent in February after a 5.7 percent drop a month earlier.
That was below market forecasts of a 1.9 percent rebound.


Andrew Busch at BMO Nesbitt Burns said the Iran news "trumped"
the economic data released Wednesday and sent the dollar higher.


Ashraf Laidi at CMC Markets added that the move "is further
spurring risk appetite, which is a positive for the US dollar
against the yen at the expense of oil prices."


Fred Dickson, market strategist at DA Davidson, said he expected
stocks to hold in a relatively narrow range, with an upward bias.


"We do expect the stock market to consolidate recent gains then
attempt to move up further ahead of earnings season," he said.


"There is simply too much money sitting on the sidelines that
needs to be invested ...  Although we expect a decent earnings
reporting season, we believe that if the upcoming earnings season
proves to be slightly disappointing, investors with lots of cash
sit ready to pounce on bargains as they emerge from anxious
sellers following the earnings announcements."


Among stocks in focus, Monsanto climbed 3.27 dollars or nearly
six percent to 59.29 as the world's largest developer of
genetically modified crops reported stronger-than-expected
profits on record corn plantings.


NYSE Euronext fell 2.10 dollars to 98.90 as the transatlantic
stock market operator made its trading debut after a merger of
the New York and European exchanges.


ConocoPhillips fell 58 cents to 67.26 as the US oil giant said
its global production would be below that of the fourth quarter
as a result of OPEC output cuts.


Bonds firmed. The yield on the 10-year US Treasury bond dropped
to 4.630 percent from 4.664 percent Tuesday and that on the
30-year bond eased to 4.825 percent against 4.846 percent. Bond
yields and prices move in opposite directions.

