

The average price of gold in 2007 is set to break records because
of interest from investors amid geopolitical uncertainty, the
precious metals consultancy GFMS said on Wednesday.


"It's looking pretty certain that the record in terms of the
annual average, 614.50 dollars back in 1980, is going to fall
this year," GFMS chairman Philip Klapwijk said as the independent
research group published its annual Gold Survey.


Since the start of 2007 gold has traded at a average of 650
dollars an ounce.


On May 12 last year, an ounce of gold hit a fixing price of
725.75 dollars on the London Bullion Market, which was the
highest level for more than 26 years.


"I'd also be far from surprised if this year we saw the market
moving above the 2006 high of 725 dollars," Klapwijk said.


"Quite whether we'd then get close to the all time high of 850
dollars is more doubtful, but I'd certainly expect the upward
price trend to continue on into 2008," he added.


Investors are piling into gold amid geopolitical concerns, since
the yellow metal is seen as a safe store of value in times of
high inflation and political tensions.


Gold has won renewed support in recent weeks owing to Iran's
standoff with Britain over the 15 British sailors captured by
Tehran on March 23 and freed on Wednesday.


Investors are also being drawn to gold because of the long-
standing row between Western powers and Iran over the Islamic
Republic's disputed nuclear programme.


"GFMS' view is that an investor-led rally into at least the
mid-700 dollars is indeed probable over the next year or so," the
survey said.


"This forecast presupposes further US dollar weakness, growing
financial instability and a rise in international political
tensions."


It added: "We're not really seeing any evidence of investors
starting to shun the metal for the long term."


Purchases of gold for investment had actually fallen by 13
percent in 2006 from 2005 levels to 743 tonnes.  However, the
value of demand grew by almost 18 percent to more than 14.0
billion dollars.


In tonnage terms, global investment accounted for 19.0 percent of
total demand last year.


Looking back, the consultancy said world gold supply and demand
each fell by 5.0 percent in 2006.


Mine production declined by 3.0 percent year-on-year to a 10-year
low of 2,471 tonnes.


The world's two largest gold-producing mines, Yanacocha in Peru
and Grasberg in Indonesia posted combined falls totalling more
than 70 tonnes, "thereby erasing much of the positive impact of
new mines," GFMS said.

