

The World Health Organisation will look at ways of stockpiling
vaccines to help poorer nations, including any future vaccines
against bird flu, its director general said Wednesday.


"We will look at in what way we can develop a global stockpile of
vaccines, particularly for developing countries," Margaret Chan
said after meeting Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono
in Jakarta.


She said that she shared the Indonesian government's concerns
about the importance of access to high-quality, affordable
vaccines.


Indonesia is the nation worst hit by bird flu, with 72 human
deaths from 92 cases. Scientists fear the disease could mutate
into a form that could kill millions worldwide, making access to
future vaccines against it crucial.


The World Health Organisation (WHO) would examine how to improve
the capacity of developing nations to produce vaccines, Chan
said.


"The world's production of vaccine is rather limited," she said.
"We need to see whether we can get more resources from partners
and wealthy countries to support developing countries to improve
their capacity."


Indonesia had stopped sharing bird flu samples from human cases
with the world body over concerns that drug firms would exploit
them to develop costly vaccines developing nations would struggle
to afford.


It lifted the ban last month after agreeing a deal with the WHO
under which firms will need permission from a country to access
its virus samples.


Health Minister Siti Fadilah Supari said after the meeting on
Wednesday that Chan's visit showed the WHO's goodwill, and that
Indonesia would resume sending virus samples within two months.


The WHO says the deadly H5N1 strain of the virus has infected 288
people and killed 170 of them, mostly in Southeast Asia, since
2003.

