

Afghanistan's Islamist Taliban movement said Wednesday it had
captured two French humanitarian workers who have been reported
missing with three Afghans for nearly two days.


The group, travelling in southern Afghanistan, had been out of
contact with their organisation, Terre d'Enfance (A World for Our
Children), since early Tuesday, the French foreign ministry and
Afghan government said earlier.


"We have seized two foreigners and three Afghans -- two of them
interpreters, one of them a driver -- on the road between Nimroz
and Farah," said Taliban spokesman Yousuf Ahmadi.


"They are in our custody now and our leadership will decide their
fate."


He said the foreigners were a French man and a French woman.


The Afghan interior ministry told AFP earlier the missing French
nationals and Afghan driver, cook and guard had been travelling
from the southwestern province of Nimroz northwards to Farah.


An Italian journalist was last month kidnapped by the Taliban in
Helmand province, which adjoins Nimroz, and released two weeks
later after the government handed back five Taliban prisoners.


The extremists are still holding an Afghan reporter captured with
Italian Daniele Mastrogiacomo on March 4. They beheaded a driver
snatched at the same time.


Taliban commander Mullah Dadullah has threatened through the
media to kill the Afghan unless the government releases two more
Taliban prisoners.


Some critics of the deal that freed Mastrogiacomo said his
exchange for Taliban would encourage copycat kidnappings by
militants as well as criminals.


The French foreign ministry said in Paris earlier Wednesday it
had been informed by Terre d'Enfance that it had lost contact
with the group on Tuesday and they had not reached their
destination.


"Police have launched a search and investigation," Afghan
interior ministry spokesman Zemarai Bashary told AFP.


The French embassy in Kabul said it had no comment.

