

An Iraqi and US crackdown launched in Baghdad in February is
being extended to other parts of the country, as a US general
admitted Wednesday there was no overall drop in casualties in the
capital.


Operation Fardh al-Qanoon (Imposing Law) has already been
underway in the restive northern city of Mosul since Tuesday and
troops will also focus increasingly on the outskirts of Baghdad.


US military spokesman Major General William Caldwell told
reporters that the additional troops being brought to Iraq have
the "flexibility" to be deployed anywhere in the country as part
of the new plan.


About 30,000 extra troops are currently being deployed in Iraq as
part of US President George W. Bush's last-ditch strategy to curb
violence.


Caldwell said sectarian killings had fallen by 27 percent in
March compared to February.


"But the high-profile car bombs continued to be a concern," the
general said, adding that there was no decline in the "overall
number of casualties."


Iraqi government spokesman Ali al-Dabbagh said owing to progress
being made under the crackdown, the authorities decided to ease
the daily curfew in Baghdad by three hours from 10:00 pm and 5:00
am (1800 GMT to 0100 GMT).


"The security forces did a careful study and I think this is a
security assessment that Iraqi forces have made," Dabbagh said of
the decision to ease the curfew.


"Security is improving and we now also plan to lift concrete
barriers in some areas to facilitate movement of people," he told
a joint news conference with Caldwell.


Some districts of Baghdad, long the epicentre of violence in
Iraq, are completely surrounded by high concrete walls that act
as barriers to prevent car bombings and also restrict movement of
militias.

