

Eritrea has called on Kenya to help secure the release of three
of its citizens it says Kenya handed to authorities in Somalia in
January, an official statement said.


Kenya gave the Eritreans to Somali authorities on January 20
after arresting them in late December and detaining them
illegally for more than three weeks, according to a statement
from the Eritrean Foreign Ministry posted on the Internet late
Tuesday.


"The Government of Eritrea again calls on the Kenyan authorities
to get the three Eritrean citizens released as soon as possible
and repatriate them to their country," the statement said.


It did not explain what the three prisoners had been doing prior
to their arrest, where they had been arrested, or where they were
being held.


Eritrean officials were not available for comment Wednesday.


Human Rights Watch accused the governments of Kenya, Ethiopia,
Somalia and the United States on Saturday of secretly detaining
hundreds of people fleeing the deadly conflict in Somalia.


In a statement, the rights group detailed "arbitrary detention,
expulsion and apparent enforced disappearance of dozens of
individuals who fled the fighting" between Ethiopia-backed Somali
troops and a powerful Islamist movement between last December and
January 2007.


HRW said Kenyan security forces had arrested at least 150
individuals from some 18 different nationalities at border
crossing points with Somalia since late December.


They were sent to Nairobi, where they were detained illegally
before being deported to Somalia, from where many were then sent
to Ethiopia, it said.


Horn of Africa watchers have expressed fears that Ethiopia and
Eritrea, still at odds over their unresolved 1998-2000 border
conflict, may fight a proxy war in Somalia.

