

England and Bath fly-half Olly Barkley insisted Wednesday he has
not given up hope of playing at inside centre at the World Cup.


Barkley, 25, was told he would play for England during last
autumn's internationals before being ruled out because of a
broken bone in his right hand.


And when his former Bath mentor Brian Ashton took over from Andy
Robinson as England coach in December, it had been expected that
Barkley would play a part in the Six Nations. He failed however
to even make the senior squad with Andy Farrell and Mike Catt
selected playing at 12.


"I missed the last World Cup, which makes me even more determined
for this one," said Barkley.


"Brian Ashton believes there are others playing better than me in
my position and it's up to me to raise the bar and bring my game
to his attention.


"You could argue that my past with Brian might have played a
factor in the England selection, but clearly not," Barkley told
Rugby South West magazine.


"I've not heard from Brian, nor would I expect to. He's got a lot
on his plate and bigger things to worry about than my
disappointment.


"I'm not the sort of player who demands selection, for England or
anyone else. The simple fact is I've got to play better to make
it.


"It's up to me to put myself in the spotlight. I need to look
forward."


Barkley has already played at full-back, fly-half and both centre
positions for Bath this season and admits he could be a victim of
his versatility.


"Until I'm playing consistently at 12 for Bath it will make
England selection tougher," he says.


"For me, 12 is my best position now. The way the game has evolved
you can still help run a game from there, launching attacks and
marshalling your defence.


"I don't want to play 15 or 10, I want to be at 12. That's not a
case of me throwing the toys out of the pram though and I'm happy
to help out Bath wherever they need me."

