

India has stepped up security around the Dalai Lama amid reports
of threats to the Tibetan spiritual leader by a Kashmiri
guerrilla group, officials said Wednesday.


A three-tier security ring has been placed around the ornate
palace of the Dalai Lama in the northern Indian hill town of
Dharamsala, where the Tibetan government-in-exile is
headquartered.


"Yes, we have have beefed up security for the Dalai Lama and we
are doing this as a precautionary measure," police inspector-
general P.L. Thakur said in Shimla, state capital of Himachal
Pradesh state where Dharamsala is located.


Thakur said the measures followed India media reports of a threat
from Lashkar-e-Taiba, which is banned both in India and Pakistan.


"One of the reasons for gearing up his security is due to
unconfirmed news reports appearing in a section of the (Indian)
media about a threat to his life," the senior officer said.


The Dalai Lama's office declined comment on any threat.


"We do not comment on the security arrangements for His
Holiness," the Dalai Lama's personal aide T.N. Takla told AFP.


In Dharamsala, residents reported fresh deployments of security
forces at the Tibetan leader's home-in-exile.


Press Trust of India, quoting unnamed Indian intelligence
sources, said the Lashkar "had been directed by a foreign
organisation to target the Dalai Lama."


It did not name the organisation but suspicions have been raised
of Al-Qaeda involvement.


PTI quoted a Himachal police officer as saying the threat
originated from the Lashkar, a hardline Islamic group blamed by
New Delhi for repeated suicide attacks against military as well
as civilian targets in disputed Kashmir and elsewhere in India.


Numerous prominent figures in India are named on death lists
issued by various Islamic rebel groups fighting New Delhi's rule
in Kashmir.


The Dalai Lama and thousands of his followers fled to India in
1959 after Beijing crushed an anti-Chinese uprising in Lhasa.

