

A former US Navy sailor accused of leaking classified information
about a US battle group pleaded not guilty Wednesday to charges
of providing material support for terrorists.


Hassan Abujihaad, born Paul Hall, pleaded not guilty at a
district court in New Haven, Connecticut. He is due back in court
next week at a hearing to determine whether he should be released
on bail, a court spokesman said.


Abujihaad is charged with providing material support for a group
allegedly conspiring to kill US nationals and of leaking
classified information.


He was arrested in Arizona last month and accused of passing
information, including details of a US Navy battle group, to two
British nationals from an organization called Azzam Publications
from 1997 until at least 2004.


Abujihaad was stationed in the Middle East aboard the USS
Benfold, a guided- missile destroyer in the battle group, and
allegedly provided details of its movements as it headed for the
Gulf in early 2001.


A document found during a police search in Britain in 2003
allegedly discloses the battle group's perceived vulnerability to
attack and is believed by prosecutors to have come from
information passed on by Abujihaad.


Abujihaad is further accused of praising Al-Qaeda leader Osama
bin Laden and the suicide attack on the USS Cole in 2000, in
which 17 US sailors were killed.


The two Britons in the case have also been indicted on terrorism
charges and are currently facing extradition to the United
States.


Abujihaad, who was discharged from the navy in 2002, faces up to
25 years in prison if convicted.

