

Want to know whether your Internet social network will survive or
break up?


Try mathematics.


An algorithm developed by Tamas Vicsek of Budapest's Eotvos
University and colleagues aims at pinning down some of the
mechanisms for social interaction in a complex, fast-moving
world.


They trawled over two sets of data to explore how people link up.
One was a collaborative network of more than 30,000 researchers
connected to an archive at New York's Cornell University; the
other was the year-long record of communications patterns of four
million mobile phone users.


Put together, these figures provided an intriguing picture of
relationship dynamics.


The team found that small groups endure only if they have an
unchanged core of members -- in other words, a clique.


"A typically small and stationary community undergoes minor
changes, but lives for a long time," they report in Thursday's
issue of Nature, the weekly British science journal.


Among large groups, though, the opposite holds true -- a large
community breaks up quickly if it is stationary, but endures if
it opens itself up to new members.


One example of this successful, loose affiliation is a school or
a company.


In a few years, most members or employees may change, yet the
entity will be detectable as a "distinct community" at any time
during its existence, says the study.


Vicsek's group also developed a complex formula based on a group
member's contacts with others, to predict whether that individual
would stay with the group or leave it.


The figures bear out, mathematically, what we know instinctively.


Someone who shows a heightened interest in an outside group is
probably about to leave his present one -- and the more contact
the present group has with him, the likelier he is to be
committed to staying in it.

