

Unions at the Czech Republic's biggest car maker, Skoda Auto,
declared a strike alert Wednesday in pursuit of their claims for
higher pay.


"The company council at today's meeting decided to declare a
strike alert and at the same time intensively make preparations
for strike action," Kovo, one of the main unions, announced in a
news release on Wednesday.


Management and unions at the Volkswagen Group company failed to
agree a new two-year pay and conditions package on Monday during
their eighth round of negotiations.


Skoda Auto offered a 7.5 percent rise in wages from the start of
April with a further 2.5 percent increase next year. Wages would
rise 10.0 percent over two years with improved fringe benefits
resulting in a 12.5 percent improvement in 2008, the company
said. Unions have demanded a 17.0 percent increase.


Average workers' wages at Skoda's stood at 22,057 koruna (789
euros, 1,055 dollars) last year, according to the union.


"We want the most important and best company in the Czech
Republic to pay its employees a responsible and respectable wage
which approaches the minimum level in the European Union," the
Kovo union said.


It added that workers were prepared to launch an unlimited strike
to back their claims with support being sought from other
Volkswagen plants worldwide.


Skoda Auto boosted 2006 net profits by 40 percent to reach a
record 11.06 billion koruna (392 million euros, 515 million
dollars), becoming one of the profit pillars of the Volkswagen
group. The company is the biggest Czech exporter, responsible for
7.7 percent of total sales abroad last year.

