

British Prime Minister Tony Blair hailed Wednesday the release of
15 detainees by Iran, insisting there had been "no negotiation"
to secure their freedom.


He also thanked Britain's partners, including "friends and allies
in the region," and reiterated that London was committed to
resolving disputes peacefully with Tehran.


"Throughout we have taken a measured approach: firm but calm, not
negotiating but not confronting either," he said, in a statement
outside his Downing Street office, alongside Foreign Secretary
Margaret Beckett.


"I would like to thank our allies in Europe, our allies in the
United Nations Security Council for their support and also our
friends and allies in the region who played their part," he said.


"We are grateful to all of them as we are to the officials in the
Foreign Office and the Ministry of Defence and here in Downing
Street for the work that they have done.


"To the Iranian people I would simply say this: we bear you no
ill will. On the contrary, we respect Iran as an ancient
civilisation, as a nation with a proud and dignified history.


"The disagreements we have with your government we wish to
resolve peacefully .. I hope, as I have always hoped, that in the
future we are able to do so."


Defence Secretary Des Browne also hailed the news, saying London
wants the 15 detainees back quickly.


"It must be a tremendous relief for our people who have been held
in Iran -- they have acted with great dignity throughout," he
said.


"It is vital that we get them back home quickly and safely so
they can be reunited with their families and loved ones -- that
is our priority now."

