

A commission assessing the conduct of last summer's war in
Lebanon will say the government should have resigned in the war's
aftermath, a commission member was quoted as saying on Wednesday.


"The commission will take a harsh and specific tone with those
responsible for the incidents of the recent war," the source told
the Yediot Aharonot daily newspaper's Ynet website.


"It will also point out that in the name of ministerial
responsibility, which should have been claimed, the government
should have resigned after the war," the source added.


"(Commission members) will say that in a democratic government --
when something like this happens -- the government should quit."


The commission, headed by retired judge Eliayahu Winograd, is
expected to publish an interim report at the end of April.


The report is expected to draw specific conclusions about the
conduct of Prime Minister Ehud Olmert, Defence Minister Amir
Peretz and former army chief of staff Dan Halutz.


The Winograd Commission has heard testimony from around 70
political and military leaders since it was established on
September 17 under pressure from thousands of army reservists
angry about the army's poor preparedness for battle.


Israel launched a 34-day war against the Shiite movement
Hezbollah in southern Lebanon after militants nabbed two soldiers
in a cross-border raid.


In the conflict's aftermath, angry reservists also denounced the
widespread confusion and frequent conflicting orders given by
commanders, in addition to the army's failure to achieve its
goals of stopping Hezbollah rocket attacks or freeing the two
captured soldiers.


The demonstrators called for the resignation of Olmert, Peretz
and Halutz. Until now, only Halutz has stepped down.

