

What happens when a coyote walks into a downtown Chicago sandwich
shop and it takes nearly an hour for animal control to show up?


One worker jumps up on the counter and screams. Two customers
rush out the door. Two more sit back and finish their chicken
sandwiches until the cop who came out of the donut shop next door
tells them to step outside.


And the coyote gets to take a nice long rest on top of a stack of
diet Pepsis in an open cooler.


"He probably smelled our prime rib," shop manager Bina Patel, 23,
told the Chicago Sun-Times, explaining that the door had been
propped open because of warm weather.


The 30-pound coyote walked into the Quiznos submarine shop just
before 2:00 pm on Tuesday and tried to nose his way past a small
swinging door that leads behind the counter, the paper reported
Wednesday.


But after one of the workers stopped him by holding his leg
against the door, the 18-month-old coyote tried jumping over the
counter, giving a good scare to the worker who had screamed and
climbed onto the counter a moment earlier.


The counter proved too high for the coyote so it found a seat in
the open cooler next to the register. He had the run of the
restaurant after the police cleared everyone out but didn't leave
the cooler -- or take a bite of anything in the store -- until an
animal control officer got a catchpole around its neck and
dragged it thrashing into a van outside.


It was the third coyote caught in Chicago in the past two weeks,
the Chicago Tribune reported.


About 10 to 15 coyotes are captured every year and the city gets
about a call a week from residents who spot coyotes, Anne Kent,
director of Animal Care and Control told the paper.


They usually stay away from busy areas, living near railroad
tracks and big garbage containers, she said.

