

The Indian rupee surged to a near eight-year high against the
dollar on Wednesday as commercial banks sold the US currency to
generate cash to meet new higher deposit requirements.


The Indian currency broke through the 43-rupee mark to end the
day at 42.90 rupees against the dollar, firming from 43.10 rupees
the previous day.


Earlier it hit an intraday peak of 42.84 rupees to the dollar,
its highest level since June 1999.


The latest rise follows a move by India's central bank to tighten
monetary policy again last Friday in a bid to combat inflation in
Asia's fourth largest economy which is growing by around nine
percent.


The Reserve Bank of India (RBI), which has been in a tightening
policy mode since late 2004, lifted its main short-term lending
rate by 25 basis points to 7.75 percent.


The bank also increased the amount of cash that commercial banks
must hold on deposit by 50 points to 6.50 percent, a move that
will suck around 3.5 billion dollars from the banking system.


The bank is seeking to curb rampant credit growth which has been
fuelling inflation that is running at 6.46 percent. That is
nearly a percentage point above the bank's comfort zone of 5.0 to
5.5 percent.


The rupee has been gaining ground steadily against the dollar
thanks to increased foreign investment and remittances but until
lately dealers say the central bank has been intervening to slow
the rupee's rise.


In 2002, the dollar bought over 49 rupees.


"We expect the rupee to benefit from both rising interest rates
and the shift in policy focus of the RBI solely toward inflation
control, implying it may be willing to tolerate a higher Indian
rupee," said Goldman Sachs in a research note.


The central bank said in its policy announcement last Friday that
it was "critical to take demonstrable and determined action on an
immediate basis." Analysts say the bank's hawkish tone could mean
further monetary tightening.

