

Britain has protested to Zimbabwe over a death threat made to one
of its senior Harare-based diplomats that appeared in a state-
controlled newspaper, a foreign office spokeswoman said
Wednesday.


"The direct and aggresive threats made in the Herald article
against a member of our staff are shocking and absolutely
unacceptable," the spokeswoman told AFP by phone from London.


In an opinion page article, the paper accused Gillian Dare, the
second secretary at the British embassy, of "blatant interference
in the internal affairs of Zimbabwe" before warning she risked
being caught up in crossfire.


"It will be a pity for her family to welcome her at Heathrow
airport in a body bag just like some of her colleagues from Iraq
and Afghanistan," said the article.


The spokeswoman said the Zimbabwean ambassador to London, Gabriel
Machinga, had been summoned to the Foreign Office on Tuesday
where the department's permament under secretary Sir Peter
Ricketts "raised our serious concern".


"He emphasised that we hold the Zimbabwean authorities
responsible for protecting our diplomats just as we provide
protection for the Zimbabwean mission on London," she said.


Harare consistently accuses the former colonial ruler Britain and
the United States of bankrolling the country's opposition
Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) ands trying to topple his
regime, charges the two powers deny.


Mugabe last month warned that diplomats "must behave properly or
else we kick them out of our country" in response to a firestorm
of criticism over the arrest and subsequent assault of MDC
leaders.


Last week the Herald ran another opinion article accusing the US
envoy Christopher Dell of being "a cowboy masquerading as a
diplomat and ... clearly itching for physical fight".

