

The loss of life from the quake and tsunami that hit the Solomon
Islands this week has cast light on the need to improve emergency
response systems in poor, vulnerable countries, the UN said on
Wednesday.


The UN Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO)
said that even though the tsunami warning to the Solomons had
been timely, there was very little time to hand it on to Gizo,
the worst-hit town, which was only 45 kilometres (28 miles) from
the epicentre of the quake that unleashed the giant waves.


"Vulnerable coastal communities close to a quake's epicentre need
to rely on their own preparedness," said Patricio Bernal, the
executive secretary of a commission that is overseeing global
tsunami response.


"Fortunately, in this case, the memory of the [December 26, 2004]
Indian Ocean tsunami was still fresh and many inhabitants quickly
headed for higher ground," he said in press release.


"Nonetheless, and despite the long experience with tsunamis in
the Pacific, communities there could still be better prepared.
Everybody, from the youngest to the oldest inhabitant, needs to
know how to recognize the danger signs and how to react.


"This means public information and education campaigns and clear
procedures for evacuations, access to medical facilities, and
emergency accommodation. On the prevention side, it also means
improved urban planning and the enforcement of building codes."


At least 30 people were reported killed and 5,400 made homeless
after the 8.0-magnitude quake and tsunami hit the remote South
Pacific islands on Monday.


UNESCO's Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC) is
overseeing a global warning system for tsunamis, covering the
Indian Ocean, Northeast Atlantic and Mediterranean, Caribbean and
Pacific.

