

Charles Konan Banny, the outgoing Ivorian prime minister, called
Wednesday for a "resurrection" in his country as he prepared to
hand over power to former rebel leader Guillaume Soro.


"I want a resurrection in Ivory Coast," said the practising
Catholic, just days ahead of the Easter festival that marks the
resurrection of Jesus Christ.


Banny was speaking at a ceremony to mark the end of his 15 months
in power attended by most of his 34 ministers, shortly before he
was due to formally hand over to Guillaume Soro, the leader of
the New Forces rebels known as G7.


Switching metaphors he remarked: "We have scored the try, now it
is a question of converting it, and we must not miss the
conversion.


"My wish is that the team that is going to succeed us continues
that work, finishes it so that we can arrive at peace," he added,
to the applause of his ministers.


Once a bastion of stability in west Africa, Ivory Coast has since
2002 been split in two after a failed coup led by Soro. His
forces control the north of the country, while President Laurent
Gbagbo holds the south.


Banny was imposed on Gbagbo by the United Nations as interim
prime minister in December 2005. His brief was to lead a
transition government towards parliamentary and presidential
elections by October 2006.


But despite his impressive economic credentials -- he is a former
governor of the Central Bank of West African States -- he lacked
political experience and had no power base in the country.


And although the UN Security Council voted to extend his mandate
and give him sweeping powers, he failed in his mission, partly
due to a lack of cooperation on both sides of the political
divide.


The March 4 peace agreement led to the appointment of Soro, who
has said he is expected to announce his cabinet by Friday. More
than half the cabinet seats have been set aside for New Forces
members.

