

Afghan police are searching for two French aid workers who have
not been in contact with their organisation for nearly two days,
an official said Wednesday.


The French foreign ministry said it had been informed by
nongovernment organisation Terre d'Enfance (A World for Our
Children) that it had lost contact with the two on Tuesday and
they had not reached their destination.


The pair -- travelling with an Afghan driver, cook and guard --
had been travelling from the southwestern province of Nimroz and
were headed northwards to Farah and Herat, the interior ministry
told AFP.


"Their translator informed the police in Nimroz that they have
lost contact with their colleagues, two French and three Afghans,
since yesterday at nine o'clock," spokesman Zemarai Bashary told
AFP.


"Police have launched a search and investigation," he said.


In Paris, the foreign ministry said it and the French embassy in
Kabul were following the case closely and were in contact with
Afghan authorities.


The French nationals were volunteers for the humanitarian group
and had been on a mission, a spokesman said.


An Italian journalist was last month kidnapped by the Taliban in
Helmand province, which adjoins Nimroz, and released two weeks
later after the government handed back five Taliban prisoners.


The extremists are still holding an Afghan reporter captured with
Italian Daniele Mastrogiacomo on March 4. They beheaded a driver
snatched at the same time.


Taliban commander Mullah Dadullah has threatened through the
media to kill the Afghan unless the government releases two more
Taliban prisoners.


Some critics of the deal that freed Mastrogiacomo said his
exchange for Taliban would encourage copycat kidnappings by
militants as well as criminals.

