

Three people with suspected links to Basque separatist group ETA
were remanded in custody in Spain on Wednesday as part of a huge
police operation targeting the group, a judicial source said.


The move brought the number of suspected ETA members remanded in
custody since the sweep began a week ago to nine.


The operation -- the biggest since ETA declared a "permanent
ceasefire" in March last year -- allowed police to dismantle an
ETA commando called Donosti, which carried out 24 attacks between
2004 and 2006.


Police have also seized some 170 kilograms (375 pounds) of
explosives as well as several weapons in searches carried out in
northern Spain, and have located an apartment where ETA's
internal newsletter Zutabe was put together as well as the
equipment used to print it.


Judge Ismael Moreno of the country's highest criminal court
ordered the three men's detention following a hearing in which
one, Sergio Garcia Lazkano, was charged with belonging to a
terrorist group and the two others were accused of collaborating
with a terrorist organisation.


The judge charged that starting in 2004 Lazkano was "responsible
for propaganda" for ETA's banned political wing, Basuna, and that
from 2000 he had received information about ETA's armed wing's
possible targets, including businesses, politicians and security
forces.


The three detentions came after six people, five men and one
woman, were remanded in custody on Monday in connection with the
operation against ETA, which is responsible for 819 deaths in its
38-year campaign to win independence for the Basque region.


Among those detained was Jose Angel Lerin Sanchez who is seen as
the ringleader of Donosti. He was charged with membership in a
terrorist organization and possession of explosives among other
crimes.

