

Tajik President Emomali Rakhmon has instructed archaeologists to
secure the return from the British Museum of an ancient
collection of artefacts known as the Oxus Treasure, his press
service said Wednesday.


The Tajik leader had visited the site on the Afghan border from
where Tajik officials believe the collection originates and told
archaeologists to "organize an exhibition of the historic Oxus
Treasure and also its return from London to its homeland," the
press service said in a statement.


The Oxus Treasure, which sits in the Iranian galleries of
London's British Museum, is being sought by this former Soviet
republic as it tries to obtain World Heritage status for the
ancient archaeological site of Takhti Sangin.


The museum's Internet site describes the collection, which
includes a gold scabbard, model chariots, finger-rings and coins,
as the most important surviving collection of Achaemenid Persian
metalwork, dating from the fifth and fourth centuries BC.


But the museum disputes Tajikistan's claims that the collection
comes from Takhti Sangin, saying it is from another site also on
the Tajik-Afghan border, a British museum official told AFP.


The Oxus is the ancient name of today's Amu Darya River, which
flows along the border.


The Oxus Treasure was obtained for the museum in the 19th century
by British collectors, among them a political officer in
Afghanistan who bought a gold amulet now part of the collection
from a group of merchants who he had rescued from bandits.


"We don't see any evidence for it coming from Takhti Sangin.
Russian 19th century travellers' reports indicate it was more
likely from Takht-i Kuwad," museum curator St John Simpson told
AFP.


Rakhmon recently changed his name from Rakhmonov in a bid to
remove Russian influences from Tajik surnames.

