

European stock exchanges posted strong gains on Friday, powered
by prospects for lower US interest rates and takeover talk, at
the end of a week in which several markets soared to record
heights.


"Markets are focusing on mergers and acquisitions at a time when
companies have lots of money and could take advantage of strong
synergies if they combined," said strategist Yves Marcais of
Global Equities.


On Friday the London FTSE 100 index rose 1.01 percent to close at
6,603.70 points, while in Paris the CAC 40 added 1.08 percent to
reach 6,068.83. The Frankfurt Dax gained 0.54 percent to finish
at 7,516.76.


The Euro Stoxx 50 index of leading eurozone shares added 0.41
percent to close at 4,445.59.


Earlier in the week the London and Frankfurt exchanges soared to
their highest levels in nearly seven years, Madrid came close to
a record and Paris broke through the 6,000-point level for the
first time since December 2000.


The Brussels stock market hit a record on Friday.


The week likewise saw record runs on Wall Street as did exchanges
in Australia, South Korea, Singapore, Malaysia and Indonesia.


On the London currency market Friday the dollar wobbled against
the euro following news that US job creation in April was weaker
than expected.


The single European currency in late-day trade was at 1.3587
dollars after 1.3549 late Thursday in New York.


In New York, Wall Street's remarkable rally kept rolling amid
increased news of mergers and a report on US job growth that
showed economic conditions slowing but not stalling.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average gained 0.18 percent to 13,264.86
at 1415 GMT, extending gains after setting another all-time
record high Thursday. The Nasdaq composite climbed 0.27 percent
to 2,572.50.


The US government reported that US payrolls grew by 88,000, the
weakest since November 2004 and below most estimates.


But some analysts said the report confirms easing inflation
pressures that will help the economy get through the current soft
patch.


Dick Green at Briefing.com said the payrolls report "isn't bad,
but it also isn't great. It is consistent with 2.0 to 2.5 percent
GDP (gross domestic product) growth forecasts."


While analysts expect the Federal Reserve, the US central bank,
to maintain its benchmark interest rate when its policymakers
convene next week, Friday's job figures pointed to a possible
easing in credit in June, speculation that bouyed market
sentiment.


In London, the main talking point was media giant Reuters, which
surged 25.09 percent to 615.75 pence after announcing that it had
received a takeover bid from an unamed suitor.


Anglo-Dutch publishing group Reed Elsevier added 2.85 percent to
close at 650 pence on news that it had sold two of its
educational divisions to Pearson.


In Paris, automaker Renault gained 5.71 percent to 100.95 euros
and was the day's big winner. Japanese manufacturer Nissan, in
which Renault has a 44 percent stake, said it was considering
production of a low-cost automobile that would be "very
different" from Renault's Logan model.


Drinks group Pernod Ricard rose 1.33 percent to 159.87 on
stronger than expected sales growth in the third quarter.


In Frankfurt, Deutsche Telekom fell 4.85 percent to 12.74 euros.
The Verdi trade union said it had reached an agreement in
principle on a strike and will submit its recommendation to the
membership, possibly signalling the worst labor unrest at the
company since its privatisation 12 years ago.


Elsewhere there were gains of 1.56 percent to 14,620.30 in
Madrid, 0.66 percent to 539.64 in Amsterdam, 0.27 percent to a
record 4,719.26 in Brussels, 0.66 percent to 43,973 in Milan and
0.66 percent to 9,455.47 on the Swiss Market Index.


In Asia on Friday, Hong Kong's key Hang Seng index closed up 0.77
percent on Friday at a record high 20,841.08 points as property
stocks gained hopes that a government land auction next week will
attract strong bids, dealers said.


The Tokyo market was shut on Friday owing to a public holiday.

