

UN chief Ban Ki-moon urged urgent world action to stem global
greenhouse gas emissions as recommended by the UN's top
scientific panel, his office said Friday.


A statement from Ban's press office here said the secretary
general, who is in Egypt attending a conference on Iraq, welcomed
the report released Friday in Bangkok by the Intergovernmental
Panel on Climate Change (IPCC).


"The IPCC report confirms that mitigating options, including
changes in lifestyle and consumption, are available for all
sectors," it noted.


Ban stressed the need to agree a strong framework by 2010 to
ensure there is no gap between the 2012 expiration of the Kyoto
Protocol, the only global pact that sets specific targets for
curbing greenhouse gas emissions, and the entry into force of a
future accord.


He said a comprehensive package must be "urgently launched" at
the next major climate meeting scheduled for December on the
Indonesian resort island of Bali.


And he appealed to all parties to the Climate Change Convention
"to work toward this aim with the political will to decisively
abate climate change and its impact on our planet."


The IPCC report laid out a menu of options for limiting
emissions, adding that cleaner fuels, more efficient technology
and confirmed policy options were all available for achieving
this goal.


The report, the product of five days of marathon negotiations at
a UN conference to find proposals to battle climate change, said
emissions need to start declining by 2015 to avoid the worst
effects of global warming.

