

The Taliban on Saturday pushed back by another day a deadline for
its demands to be met for the release of a French hostage and
three Afghans captured a month ago, saying the ultimatum would
now expire after the French elections.


The extremist group is demanding the withdrawal of French troops
or the release of Taliban prisoners in exchange for the hostages.


A spokesman for the extremist movement told AFP it would now wait
until after the results of Sunday's French presidential election
to decide the fate of the hostages.


The winning candidate is likely to be known by the time polls
close at 1800 GMT, which is 10:30 pm in Afghanistan.


"For the sake of the French nation who have asked for the
Taliban's mercy we have extended the deadline for the French
hostage and the Afghans until the end of the French elections,"
spokesman Yousuf Ahmadi told AFP by telephone.


Ahmadi gave no precise time.


Terre d'Enfance (A World For Our Children) aid worker Eric
Damfreville and three Afghans working with him were captured in
southwestern Afghanistan on April 3.


A Frenchwoman abducted with them, Celine Cordelier, was released
last Saturday when the Taliban extended by a week for its demands
to be met saying it was aware the French nation was "busy" with
the election.


If its demands were not met, a council of elders would decide on
the fate of the four, Ahmadi said last week. Asked if they could
be killed, Ahmadi said the group's policy was "clear."


The militants have executed several Turks and Indians, but they
have claimed responsibility for only one killing of a western
hostage, a British engineer in 2005.


Ahmadi told AFP Friday there had been no negotiations for the
four men.


"The deadline is drawing closer every moment," he said. "The
French government and the Afghan government not only have not
accepted our demands, but they even have not tried to contact
us."


President Hamid Karzai said Wednesday however that his government
was doing what it could. "We are in close coordination with
France, we are doing everything in that regard," he told
reporters.


The French foreign ministry said in Paris Friday "we consider
that all useful and possible contacts must be made" in the case.


The Afghan government was heavily criticised last month when it
freed five Taliban prisoners in exchange for an Italian
journalist captured by the militants.


It was a one-off deal that would never be repeated, the
government said afterwards.


Less than a week after the Italian was freed, a medical team that
included Afghan doctors and nurses was captured in southern
Afghanistan. The Taliban has said it has demanded certain
prisoners in exchange for the five.


Cordelier, the French woman released on Saturday last week, met
the international media hours afterwards her freeing to deliver a
Taliban message that France's 1,000 troops must leave
Afghanistan.


"Eric came, like me, to Afghanistan as a friend," Cordelier added
in an appeal to the extremists who had held her for 24 days.


"Hashim, Rasoul and Azrat are Afghans. They are Muslims, they are
their brothers. They have children who are waiting for them.


"I have told them before leaving that my freedom is nothing
without theirs. Release them."


The Taliban were in government between 1996-2001 when they
famously carried out brutal punishments, including stonings, for
perceived infringements of the ultra-conservative Islamic code of
behaviour.


The group is today waging an insurgency against Karzai's
government that has grown steadily and is support by the Al-Qaeda
terror network.

