

Zimbabwe has lost about 40 black rhinos to poachers who have
killed the animals in some government parks and conservancies
over the past three years, a state daily said Saturday.


"At least 40 black rhinos have been poached in some government
parks and conservancies in the country over the past three
years," the state-run Herald said.


The newspaper quoted World Wide Fund (WWF) spokeswoman, Melody
Maunze, as saying although other animals such as buffalos and
lions were not in danger during that period, the black rhino was
under seige.


"...We are are concerned about the increasing levels of poaching
in conservancies, in particular, and some state parks," Maunze
said.


"Efforts should be made to work with communities now settled in
some conservancies to constructively engage in wildlife
management, which would be a more economically viable option,
suitable to local conditions than traditional livestock
production systems some of them are into."


The southern African country temporarily placed over 100 rhinos
at a private conservancy in the southern part of Matabeleland
last year following the continued poaching of the endagered
species.


Under the Convention on International Trade and Endangered
Species, no country is allowed to trade in rhino products
following the massive decline in its population in the 1980s.


Southern African countries are currently working together to help
boost the populations and recently Zimbabwe donated one black
rhino to the Khama Wildlife Sanctuary in Serowe, Botswana.

