

The dollar wobbled against the euro Friday on news that US job
creation in April was weaker than expected, but analysts said the
figures were not sufficient to fuel speculation on a cut in US
interest rates.


The single European currency in late-day trade was at 1.3587
dollars after 1.3549 late Thursday in New York.


The dollar was meanwhile trading at 120.17 yen against 120.41 on
Thursday.


US government figures showed just 88,000 new jobs were created in
April marking the weakest reading in almost two-and-a-half years.
Most analysts had forecast April growth of at least 100,000 new
positions.


The job snapshot came days before the Federal Reserve was due to
meet May 9 to deliberate US interest rates, but several
economists said they expected the Fed to keep rates unchanged
next week.


The Fed's short term interest rate has been anchored at 5.25
percent since June.


While job creation was lackluster, the April record still
suggested the US economy was holding up.


"The data does little to support the case for a near term Fed
ease and, while the market is focused on the risks, the fact
remains that the consumer is not falling over," said Divyang Shah
at Commonwealth Bank of Australia.


Bear Stearns currency analyst Steve Barrow noted that over the
past six months, US payroll figures have approached market
expectations, with reaction from investors tending to be muted.


The currency market is waiting for the statement that will
accompany the interest rate decision by Fed policymakers next
week for clues to a possible move in June, notably in light of
recent weak US growth data, benign core inflation and Friday's
report revealing a sluggish labor market.


Elsewhere, the soft US data pushed the pound back above the
1.99-dollar level, with the currency set to remain in focus ahead
of a fully expected interest rate hike to 5.50 percent by the
Bank of England next week.


Markets will also be keeping a close eye on developments in
France, with the presidential election scheduled for Sunday and
in which a victory for favourite Nicolas Sarkozy is likely to
support the euro.


The euro changed hands at 1.3587 dollars, against 1.3549 dollars
late Thursday, 163.25 yen (163.16), 0.6818 pounds (0.6817) and
1.6462 Swiss francs (1.6477).


The dollar stood at 120.17 yen (120.41) and 1.2119 Swiss francs
(1.2158).


The pound was being traded at 1.9928 dollars (1.9872).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold rose to 688.80
dollars per ounce from 674.20 dollars late on Thursday.

