

At least 22 people died and dozens more were missing after a
sailboat crowded with Haitian migrants capsized on Friday as it
was being towed by a Turks and Caicos police boat, the US Coast
Guard reported.


Rescue crews were searching for about 56 Haitians after 73 of the
sail freighter's occupants were rescued, the US Coast Guard
(USCG) said.


Early Friday, USCG officials working in the area had been
notified that a Haitian vessel capsized while being towed by a
police boat about 800 meters (half a mile) off Providenciales,
one of the Turks and Caicos islands.


USCG crews located 22 dead people, while police from the British
overseas territory rescued 73 people.


The ill-fated boat, which measured between 7.5 and nine meters
(25-30 feet,) was apparently headed for the United States, 900
kilometers (560 miles) away, with some 150 people aboard.


Every year, hundreds of Haitians fleeing their impoverished and
violence-torn nation in search of a better life make the illegal
sea voyage aboard often overcrowded boats.


Since 2001, a total of almost 400 people have been reported dead
or missing at sea as they sought to travel from Haiti, Cuba and
the Dominican Republic to the United States.


In March, a USCG crew recovered five bodies after a sail
freighter with 56 Haitians aboard caught fire and capsized off
the Dominican Republic.


Since January, 909 Haitians have been interdicted by the Coast
Guard as they tried to make their way illegally to the United
States. Virtually all the Haitian migrants caught at sea are
repatriated.

