

Wall Street's remarkable rally kept rolling Friday -- with yet
another record high for blue chips -- amid more news on mergers
and data suggesting US economic conditions are slowing but not
stalling.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average gained 23.89 points (0.18
percent) to 13,265.27 at the closing bell, hitting another all-
time record high.


The Nasdaq composite climbed 6.69 points (0.26 percent) to
2,572.15 and the broad-market Standard & Poor's 500 index
added 3.24 points (0.22 percent) to a preliminary close of
1,505.63. Both indexes sat at multiyear highs, with the S&P
nearing its all-time high of March 2000.


The market's hot streak showed few signs of easing with the blue-
chip index setting a series of new records after rising in 23 of
the past 26 trading days.


"Today's gains are negligible, but they are noteworthy
nonetheless since they reflect a market that seems impervious to
selling activity," said analysts at Briefing.com.


More merger news was a factor in keeping the rally alive. Reports
said Microsoft and Yahoo have revived talks on a merger or
alliance, while financial information group Reuters confirmed it
had received a takeover approach from an unnamed suitor.


On the economic front, the government reported US payrolls grew
by 88,000, the weakest since November 2004 and below most
estimates.


But some analysts said the report confirms easing inflation
pressures that will help the economy get through the current soft
patch.


Fred Dickson at DA Davidson said the data should not derail the
current rally.


"While the number of new jobs created was the lowest since
November 2004, the economy appears to be moving forward with
lessening inflation pressure as evidenced by only a 0.2 percent
increase in average hourly earnings," he said.


"The stock market continues to focus on both earnings and
mergers."

