

At least 22 people died and dozens more were missing after a
sailboat packed with Haitian migrants capsized on Friday in
shark-infested waters while being towed by a police boat, the US
Coast Guard reported.


Several of the bodies reportedly appeared to have been chewed up
by sharks.


"Those are the reports provided by Turks and Caicos police," the
force which was towing the boat, said US Coast Guard (USCG)
spokesman Luis Diaz.


The waters off the Atlantic archipelago are teeming with sharks.


The USCG initially assisted police in the British overseas
territory in searching for about 56 Haitians reported missing,
but was eventually told its help was no longer needed, said Diaz.


A total of 73 people were rescued and 22 bodies were spotted
after the boat capsized early Friday about 800 meters (half a
mile) off Providenciales, one of the Turks and Caicos islands.
The USCG said the vessel capsized as it was being towed ashore.


The ill-fated boat, which measured between 7.5 and nine meters
(25-30 feet) was apparently headed for the United States, 900
kilometers (560 miles) away, with some 150 people aboard.


Every year, hundreds of Haitians fleeing their impoverished and
violence-torn nation in search of a better life make the illegal
sea voyage aboard often overcrowded boats.


Since 2001, a total of almost 400 people have been reported dead
or missing at sea as they sought to travel from Haiti, Cuba and
the Dominican Republic to the United States.


In March, a USCG crew recovered five bodies after a sailing
freighter with 56 Haitians aboard caught fire and capsized off
the Dominican Republic.


Since January, 909 Haitians have been interdicted by the Coast
Guard as they tried to make their way illegally to the United
States. Virtually all the Haitian migrants caught at sea are
repatriated.

