

Brazilian President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva said Friday he
would cease to respect US pharmaceutical giant Merck's patent on
the AIDS drug Efavirenz after refusing the company's 30 percent
price-cut offer.


The decision marked the first time that Brazil decided to
disregard the patent of a medication.


Due to the president's decision, Brazil will now go ahead and
import the generic medicine from three laboratories in India
which have been approved by the World Health Organization, Health
Minister Jose Gomes Temporao told AFP.


The move will allow Brazil to buy the drug at 45 cents per pill,
saving 15 million dollars per year. Brazil had been paying Merck
1.59 dollars per pill, whereas a country like Thailand paid 65
cents each.


The government, which has programs to distribute free AIDS
medicine to patients, had threatened such a move in the past but
was holding out for the possibility of a last-minute agreement
with the drug company.


Negotiations with Merck have been going on for three years, the
health minister said.


Ten days ago, the minister declared the medicine Efavirenz a
public interest, the first step toward ending a patent, and gave
Merck seven days to lower the price.


Merck's final offer was a 30 percent price cut, which the
government deemed insufficient.


Brazil anti-retroviral programs supply a cocktail of 15 drugs
free to 200,000 people who have tested positive for HIV in the
country. Efavirenz is used by 75,000 of those people.


Seven of the 15 drugs are produced by state or privately owned
labs in Brazil and are not protected by patents, the health
minister said.

