

Nickel and lead prices struck record high points this week but
oil futures fell as traders tracked tight supplies of world
commodities.


BASE METALS: Base metals rebounded, with nickel and lead striking
record highs and copper achieving a near one-year peak owing to
tight supplies amid a major strike in Peru.


"The return of Asian players from holidays next week should see
current gains being sustained and higher price levels are likely
to be probed further," UBS analyst Robin Bahr said.


Thousands of Peruvian miners started an indefinite, nationwide
strike Monday to support demands for better wages, union leaders
said.


Some 40,000 miners from 33 trade unions downed their tools, said
Luis Castillo, the secretary general of the National Federation
of Miners, Metal and Steel Workers.


"If the strike in Peru persists, the tight stocks situation could
quickly turn critical," BNP Paribas analyst David Thurtell said.


Amid the strike, nickel hit a record high 50,750 dollars a tonne
and lead struck an all-time peak of 2,090 dollars a tonne.


On Friday, three-month copper prices jumped to 8,161 dollars a
tonne on the LME, from 7,700 dollars a week earlier.


Three-month aluminium prices rose to 2,830 dollars a tonne from
2,817 dollars.


Three-month nickel prices increased to 50,700 dollars a tonne
from 47,900 dollars.


Three-month lead prices climbed to 2,080 dollars a tonne from
1,991.50 dollars.


Three-month zinc prices gained to 4,084.50 dollars a tonne from
3,685 dollars.


Three-month tin prices advanced to 14,225 dollars a tonne from
13,200 dollars.


GOLD: Gold prices fell to a one-month low of 667.65 dollars an
ounce on Wednesday as the dollar strengthened.


A stronger US unit decreases demand for dollar-denominated
commodities, such as gold, since they become more expensive for
buyers using other currencies.


Gold fought back, however, at the end of the week.


"Gold's ability to hold above 670 dollars, coupled with the much
improved technical picture is extremely positive for gold, with
the metal now in a much better position to push towards 700
dollars," said James Moore, an analyst at TheBulliondesk.com.


On the London Bullion Market, gold rose to 688.80 dollars an
ounce at Friday's late fixing, from 677.50 dollars a week
earlier.


SILVER: Silver followed in gold's wake, hitting a one-month low
before recovering.


On the London Bullion Market, silver prices gained to 13.40
dollars an ounce at Friday's late fixing, from 13.35 dollars a
week earlier.


PALLADIUM AND PLATINUM: Palladium and platinum rose.


The sister metals are gaining from "the slow but growing interest
in the recently launched ETF," Moore said.


Exchange-traded fund products allow traders to invest money in
the commodities sector, without trading on the futures market and
committing themselves to the long-term delivery of the physical
product.


ETF products tend to generate a sharp increase in demand by
investors, which pushes up the price of the underlying physical
asset.


On the London Platinum and Palladium Market, platinum climbed to
1,311 dollars an ounce at the late fixing Friday, from 1,281 a
week earlier.


Palladium rose to 374 dollars an ounce, from 371 dollars.


OIL: World oil prices fell on profit-taking, but losses were
limited by concerns about tight supplies amid a rash of
kidnappings in major crude producer Nigeria and declining
stockpiles of US motor fuel.


Investors are monitoring the latest developments in Nigeria,
Africa's biggest oil exporter, where armed men have this week
abducted at least 20 foreigners in three separate incidents.


Nigeria is the world's sixth-biggest oil exporter but its output
is being severely hit by frequent kidnappings of foreign oil
workers and attacks on pipelines.


Meanwhile dealers said that US gasoline (petrol) stockpiles
remained in focus ahead of the US holiday driving season, which
starts later this month.


US gasoline reserves fell 1.1 million barrels to 193.1 million
last week and are down 34.1 million barrels or 15 percent since
early February, according to data published this week by the US
Department of Energy (DoE).


Despite concerns over stockpiles, oil producers' cartel OPEC on
Wednesday said it saw no need to increase output, even as the
International Energy Agency (IEA), the consumers watchdog,
stressed the need to pump more crude.


By Friday in London, a barrel of Brent North Sea crude for
delivery in June had dropped to 66.57 dollars, compared with
67.66 dollars a week earlier.


In New York, a barrel of crude for delivery in June slid to 63.13
dollars from 65.30 dollars.


GRAINS AND SOYA: Maize and soya prices rose, while wheat fell.


"Modest precipitation in parts of Europe, favorable crop progress
data released by the USDA and preliminary results from the Wheat
Council Quality Tour have somewhat alleviated market concerns,
sending wheat prices slightly lower," Morgan Stanley analyst
Hussein Allidina said.


He added that delays in planting, owing largely to wet conditions
in the US Midwest, lent support to maize prices.


By Friday on the Chicago Board of Trade, the price of maize for
July delivery had climbed to 3.89 dollars a bushel, from 3.74
dollars.


Wheat for July delivery dropped to 4.94 dollars a bushel, from
5.12 dollars a week earlier.


July-dated soyabean meal -- used in animal feed -- gained to 7.48
dollars, from 7.39 dollars.


On the LIFFE, London's futures exchange, the price per tonne of
wheat for November delivery slid to 95.15 pounds, from 100.30
pounds the previous week.


COCOA: Cocoa prices rebounded on concerns about tight supplies.


Dutch finance group Fortis revised higher its forecast for the
global output deficit this year, raising its estimate to 238,000
tonnes from 215,000.


By Friday on the LIFFE, the price of cocoa for July delivery
jumped to 1,025 pounds a tonne, from 981 pounds a week earlier.


On the New York Board of Trade (NYBOT), the July contract
increased to 1,857 dollars a tonne, from 1,820 dollars.


COFFEE: Coffee prices tumbled to a seven-month low in New York on
profit-taking.


Coffee futures hit 103.25 US cents a pound earlier in the week,
the lowest level since mid-October.


"The market fell under pressure from heavy hedge-fund and
speculative selling," Sucden analyst Michael Davies said.


By Friday on the LIFFE, Robusta quality for July delivery dropped
to 1,593 dollars a tonne, compared with 1,614 dollars a week
earlier.


On the NYBOT, Arabica for July delivery slipped to 105.90 US
cents a pound, from 107.10 cents.


SUGAR: Sugar prices recovered on higher demand, but remained
close to one- and-a-half year lows in London.


By Friday on the LIFFE, the price per tonne of white sugar for
August delivery rallied to 316.90 dollars, from 307 dollars a
week earlier.


On the NYBOT, the price of unrefined sugar for July delivery
advanced to 9.32 US cents a pound, from 9.18 cents.


RUBBER: Malaysian rubber prices rose as production was affected
by weather conditions in major rubber producing countries
including Malaysia and Indonesia.


"Currently our supply is tight in Malaysia and Indonesia because
of the peak wintering season for rubber," an official from a
rubber production firm said.


Wintering refers to the dry season in producer countries.


The Malaysian Rubber Board's benchmark SMR20 climbed to 215.50 US
cents per kilogramme compared with 210.75 the previous week.


WOOL: The Australian wool market rose.


"It was a good market" this week, the Australian Wool Industry
Secretariat said. Since the start of the upward movement of the
market in October, the index has risen by 1.99 Australian dollars
or 26.9 percent.


The market finished 0.3-percent higher on average this week, with
the Eastern Index ending at 9.40 Australian dollars a kilo.

