

South Africa's main opposition party, the Democratic Alliance,
starts a two-day congress on Saturday to elect a new leader in
what many see as a chance to shake off its white elitist image.


A woman, a black man and a farmer are vying to replace retiring
Tony Leon and lead a party perceived by many to be a defender of
white minority privilege.


Cape Town mayor Helen Zille is the favourite to win the three-
horse race and see off a challenge from the party's black
chairman Joe Seremane and Eastern Cape leader Athol Trollip when
members cast their votes at a venue near Johannesburg on Sunday.


Leon, who has been the official opposition leader for the past
eight years, was often accused of elitism and racism by the
ruling African National Congress (ANC) for his vehement criticism
of its policies on issues like affirmative action and AIDS.


His potential successors are perceived to be more modern and in
tune with the black majority, with both white candidates, Zille
and Trollip, fluent in the Xhosa indigenous language on top of
English and Afrikaans.


Seremane, a Sotho speaker, has a political background steeped in
militant opposition to the erstwhile apartheid government.


Leon, who will remain an MP until 2009, has said he opted to
retire as leader to "refresh and renew" the party.


This would include broadening the DA's appeal to black voters, of
which it has a very small share.


The DA, born in 2000 from a marriage between the former liberal
Democratic Party, also headed by Leon, and an offshoot of the
National Party that governed the country through apartheid, has
57 MPs out of about 400 in parliament.


More than 1,100 delegates, 150 observers and a number of VIPs are
to attend the federal congress, including representatives of the
DA's sister organisations in Africa.


Leon was to give a farewell speech on Saturday, and voting for
the new leader kicks off Sunday morning.

