

A crash during a celebrities' and millionaires' car rally in
Macedonia has claimed a second life after a local woman died of
her injuries on Friday, hospital officials said.


The woman was the wife of 67 year-old Vladimir Cepuloski, who was
killed when a Porsche sports car taking part in the cross-border
"Gumball 3000" rally allegedly collided with their car on
Wednesday evening.


Two British drivers, Nicholas Morley and Matthew McConville, were
detained at Macedonia's border with Albania late on Wednesday.


Local media reported that one of the British drivers has been
released on bail, but justice officials were not available for
comment.


Late Thursday, the rally organisers said that the event had been
closed in Bratislava a day early because of the accident.


"As a sign of respect we have decided that this year's Gumball
3000 Rally will not travel any further and will end in Bratislava
this evening," said Maximillion Cooper, the rally's founder, in a
statement.


The statement added that the incident was "the first time
anything like this has happened in nine years of travelling
through over 40 countries with thousands of drivers and it is
with deep regret that I make this announcement."


Other participants in the Gumball rally reportedly included
British celebrities such as the actor Orlando Bloom, best-known
for his role in "Lord of the Rings," and Jay Kay, the lead singer
of the pop group Jamiroquai.


The rally, which involved some 180 luxury cars, had entered
Macedonia from Greece and was travelling towards Albania when the
accident occurred.

