

Wall Street's stunning rally kept rolling Friday -- with yet
another record for blue chips -- amid more news on mergers and
data suggesting US economic conditions are slowing but not
stalling.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average gained 23.24 points (0.18
percent) to end at 13,264.62, hitting a fourth straight all-time
record closing high.


The Nasdaq composite climbed 6.69 points (0.26 percent) to
2,572.15 and the broad-market Standard & Poor's 500 index
added 3.23 points (0.21 percent) to 1,505.63.


Both indexes sat at multiyear highs, with the S&P nearing its
all-time high of March 2000.


The market's hot streak showed few signs of easing with the blue-
chip index setting a series of new records after rising in 23 of
the past 26 trading days.


"Today's gains are negligible, but they are noteworthy
nonetheless since they reflect a market that seems impervious to
selling activity," said analysts at Briefing.com.


More merger news was a factor in keeping the rally alive. Reports
said Microsoft and Yahoo have revived talks on a merger or
alliance, while British financial information and news group
Reuters confirmed it had received a takeover approach from an
unnamed suitor.


On the economic front, the government reported US payrolls grew
by 88,000, the weakest since November 2004 and below most
estimates.


But some analysts said the report confirms easing inflation
pressures that will help the economy get through the current soft
patch.


Fred Dickson at DA Davidson said the data should not derail the
current rally.


"While the number of new jobs created was the lowest since
November 2004, the economy appears to be moving forward with
lessening inflation pressure as evidenced by only a 0.2 percent
increase in average hourly earnings," he said.


"The stock market continues to focus on both earnings and
mergers."


Gregory Drahuschak at Janney Montgomery Scott said most investors
are looking past the current economic soft patch and expect the
Federal Reserve to eventually cut rates if conditions weaken
further.


"While the potential for interim weakness in consumer spending is
a worry, the Fed could become the market's best ally if it
believes consumers could benefit from rate relief," he said.


"The prospect of Fed intervention is likely to keep concerns
about consumer spending from becoming big enough to have a
significantly negative impact on the market."


Sparking the tech sector gains was Internet giant Yahoo, up 2.80
dollars or nearly 10 percent to 30.98 after The Wall Street
Journal reported the renewed merger talks with Microsoft, down 41
cents at 30.56.


The report said the two tech giants were considering joining
forces to counter the dominance of search-engine titan Google,
down 2.11 dollars at 471.12.


US-traded shares in Reuters meanwhile surged 15.84 dollars or 27
percent to 74.76 after it confirmed the takeover bid, the latest
move to consolidate in the media industry since Rupert Murdoch's
News Corp. launched a bid Tuesday for Dow Jones & Co.,
publisher of The Wall Street Journal.


Reports pointed to Canadian-based Thomson Corp., whose shares
fell 28 cents to 43.45, as the possible bidder for Reuters.


Dow Jones shares traded up three cents at 55.80 and News Corp.
gained 14 cents at 23.58.


Bonds firmed on the soft economic news. The yield on the 10-year
US Treasury bond eased to 4.640 percent from 4.674 percent while
that on the 30-year bond dropped to 4.804 percent against 4.837
percent. Bond yields and prices move in opposite directions.

