

Steve Jobs of Apple was the top-paid US chief executive last year
in 2006, receiving some 646 million dollars, Forbes magazine
said.


Even though Jobs was paid a nominal one-dollar salary, the value
of his stock options and other benefits made him the highest
compensated CEO, the magazine said.


Forbes, in releasing its survey late Thursday, said the CEOs of
America's 500 biggest companies got a collective 38 percent pay
raise last year, to 7.5 billion dollars, or an average 15.2
million dollars.


Exercised stock options accounted for the main component of pay,
or about 48 percent, Forbes said.


Number two on the list was Occidental Petroleum's Ray Irani with
321.6 million dollars, followed by Barry Diller at InterActive
Corp (295 million), Fidelity National's William Foley (179
million) and Terry Semel of Yahoo (174 million).


Michael Dell, who retook the reins at Dell Computer, was sixth
with a compensation package worth 153 million dollars.


With an outcry growing over extravagant pay packages for US
corporate executives, Forbes said the highest-paid CEOs were not
always those that delivered the most to shareholders.


Forbes said by its analysis, Apple's Jobs was 36th. Topping the
list was John Bucksbaum of General Growth Properties, a real-
estate investment trust. Over the past six years, Bucksbaum was
paid 723,000 dollars a year while delivering a 39 percent annual
return to shareholders.


At the bottom of the performance/pay rankings was Richard
Manoogian, CEO of housing products maker Masco, with a six-year
annual return of five percent and a paycheck averaging 11 million
dollars a year.

