

One soldier died and another went missing during fighting this
week on the Comoros island of Anjouan between dissident forces
and the national army, a government official said Friday.


The head of the army detachment on the island, Colonel Ayouba
Combo, was also captured overnight by supporters of Anjouan's
outgoing president Mohamed Bacar, several officials said.


"Army soldiers have been arrested, Ayouba Combo among them," an
advisor to Bacar, Youssouf Miftahou, confirmed.


Anissi Chamsidine, the federal government's representative in
Anjouan -- one of the three islands of the Union of Comoros, in
the Indian Ocean -- said the body of the soldier killed had been
handed to his family.


"I confirm that a soldier of the Comoros' army has died and
another has gone missing," Chamsidine said.


On Wednesday, Bacar supporters clashed heavily with the army.
They seized federal buildings on the island the following day,
which they still occupied on Friday.


Residents said Anjouan was calm on Friday.


The violence was sparked by a constitutional court ruling last
week that said Bacar had finished his five-year term. Federal
authorities have nominated an interim president to serve until
elections in June when all three Comoros islands are to choose
their respective presidents.


On Tuesday, interim president Kaabi Houmadi unveiled his cabinet,
prompting Bacar's government to denounce the move.


Bacar seized power on Anjouan in a coup in August 2001. He was
elected president of the island for a five-year term in March the
following year.


Comoros has endured 19 coups or attempted coups since gaining
independence from France in 1975. In 1997, the islands of Anjouan
and Moheli declared independence from Grande Comore.

