

Celebrity socialite Paris Hilton was given a 45-day prison
sentence by a Los Angeles court here Friday after being found
guilty of a parole violation.


The 26-year-old heiress to the Hilton hotel empire will begin her
sentence on June 5, the court ruled, following a three-hour
hearing at the Metropolitan Court House.


Hilton's parole violation came after she was caught driving on a
suspended license following her no contest plea to driving under
the influence.


Prosecutors told the court Hilton had been stopped in her
190,000-dollar Bentley Continental GTC on January 15 by the
California Highway Patrol and told that she was not allowed to be
driving.


On that occasion, Hilton signed a police statement acknowledging
that she was not supposed to drive. But just over a month later
she was hauled over again in Hollywood when spotted driving at
night with her headlights off.


A spokesman for Hilton said his client was unaware she was
violating her parole -- but prosecutors dismissed that line of
argument, citing the earlier brush with traffic police in
January.


Hilton had lost her license for alcohol-related reckless driving
and was given 36 months probation.


The charges stemmed from her September 7 arrest after she was
found driving her Mercedes with an alcohol level equal to the
legal limit.


Court documents described her decision to repeatedly keep driving
as a "flagrant" violation of court orders and demanded that she
be given a custodial sentence.


They also alleged Hilton failed to enroll in an alcohol education
program within 21 days of the order directing her to do so.


A favorite target for tabloid gossip and the paparazzi, Hilton
appeared in the reality television series "The Simple Life," and
in 2003 an unauthorized sex video with her former boyfriend
appeared on the Internet.


She ventured into music last year with a debut album and has had
cameo roles in a handful of films, including 2005 horror film
"House of Wax."

