

Richard Jefferson sank the decisive basket then came up with a
crucial steal Friday as New Jersey edged Toronto 98-97 to win
their National Basketball Association playoff series.


Late-game hero Jefferson scored 24 points, while Vince Carter had
21 for the Nets, who completed a four-games-to-two victory over
the Raptors in their best- of-seven Eastern Conference first-
round series.


All-Star Jason Kidd added 18 points, eight rebounds and 15
assists for the Nets, who pushed their way to the second round of
the playoffs for the fifth time in six years.


The Nets will visit the second-seeded Cleveland Cavaliers on
Sunday.


The Nets, trailing 97-96 after Toronto's Chris Bosh missed an
off-balance jumper with 16 seconds remaining, called a time out.


Kidd took an inbounds pass and threw it to Jefferson, who drove
the lane from the right, spun in the paint and layed the ball in
with eight seconds left to give the Nets a 98-97 lead.


Following Toronto's ensuing timeout, Jose Calderon attempted a
pass to Bosh, but Jefferson made a leaping interception to seal
the win for New Jersey.


Bosh, who finished with 23 points and nine assists, had given the
Raptors a 97-96 lead with a 13-foot bank shot from the left block
with 47 seconds left.


In a game that had 13 ties and 22 lead changes, the Nets trailed
46-43 at halftime before outscoring the Raptors by 10 points in
the third quarter to take a 75-68 lead into the final period.


The Nets shot 49 percent, including 10-of-19 from 3-point range
while the Raptors also finished at 49 percent.


T.J. Ford finished with 19 points and rookie Andrea Bargnani
added 17 for Toronto, which has only one playoff series victory
in its history, a first-round win against the New York Knicks in
2001.

