

Nicole Castrale fired a 4-under-par 67 here Friday to claim a
one-shot lead after the first round of the 1.4 million-dollar
LPGA SemGroup Championship.


In her second full season on the LPGA tour since turning pro in
2001, Castrale has two top-10 finishes in 2007, including a
fourth-place tie at the Ginn Open three weeks ago.


After making 409,000 dollars in her injury-disrupted first six
years as a professional, Castrale has already won 181,000 dollars
this season.


"(I've) gotten off to a pretty good start this year," Castrale
said. "I just figure if I keep doing what I'm doing, good things
will happen."


It has been a long road for Castrale, who tore her rotator cuff
in a car accident during her senior year in college. She missed
half of her 2001 pro campaign and played just 20 events on the
LPGA Tour from 2002-06, playing mostly on the Futures Tour.


"Things happen for a reason, so I was able to get past that and
overcome that," Castrale said. "Because of that I think I've
become a better player.


"So I really don't think about my shoulder injuries or whatnot.
Each day, I'm just blessed to be able to get up every morning and
play. That's kind of how I look at it."


Castrale's best finish is a third-place last season at the Honda
Classic in Thailand. She made 22 of 26 cuts last year and
finished in the top 10 four times.


Castrale has a one-shot lead over Brandie Burton, Angela Stanford
and Sweden's Karin Sjodin, who carded 68s on a sodden Cedar Ridge
country club course.


Burton, who last won on tour in 1998, is playing in just her
fourth event of the season.


She has made two cuts with a best finish of 50th at the Ginn
Open. A tour member since 1991, Burton has overcome 14 surgeries
in her career.


"You know, right thumb, right wrist, left ankle, right shoulder,
and one surgery a year for the last eight years," she said. "I
really haven't had an offseason. Right now is my time where I'm
finally starting to feel good and get my game into shape, whereas
most people would have their game in shape in February."


Stanford has one career win in 2003 and two top-10 finishes this
season while Sjodin, a second-year pro, has one top-10 finish
this season and is seeking her first title.


Defending champion Cristie Kerr, who shot a career-best 10-under-
par 61 in the second round here last year, shot a 3-over 74 and
was tied for 75th.


Lorena Ochoa of Mexico, the top money winner in 2006 and current
money leader this season, carded a 70 for a share of 12th place.

