

The European Union is to consider taking over the Galileo
satellite system as it is faced with demands for more time and
extra public funds from the project's private builders, officials
said Friday.


EU officials said Transport Commissioner Jacques Barrot will
present on May 16 a list of alternatives for the struggling
project, which is meant to compete with the US Global Positioning
Satellite (GPS) navigation system.


They are expected to range from totally taking over Galileo, a
system of some 30 satellites which could be operational as late
as 2013, partially financing the project or abandoning it
altogether, officials have said.


An industry representative said one option seriously being
considered would be for the EU to finance the first 18
satellites.


One official said that completely taking it over would cost a
little less than two billion euros (2.7 billion dollars) on top
of the 1.5 billion euros the European Commission already
allocated in the 2007-2013 budget period.


Almost two years after being named, a private consortium of
industry giants -- AENA, Alcatel, EADS, Finmeccanica, Hispasat,
Inmarsat, TeleOp and Thales -- has made little progress on the
project, angering the commission.


The concession contract for Galileo remains unsigned as the firms
squabble over who will do what and EU transport ministers have
set them a May 10 deadline to work out their differences.


But a letter of new demands which the consortium sent to the
commission last week virtually assures that Wednesday's deadline
is unlikely to be met.


"They have come up with new conditions, they want more time, more
money and more public guarantees," one official close to the
project said. "If we give them more time, it could delay our
satellite orders."


In June, EU transport ministers are to re-examine the Galileo
project, which is aimed at breaking Europe's dependence on the
free GPS system used aboard many cars, boats and aircraft.

