

Kano has become the first state in Nigeria to make it compulsory
for all pupils, both Christian and Muslim, to wear Islamic dress.


"This is in line with our resolve to bring about a positive
change in the attitude of our students and to strengthen their
morality," the governor of the northern state, Ibrahim Shekarau,
said late Thursday.


"We do not expect any private school in this state to fail in
this regard," Shekarau said, without giving details about
penalties.


State schools in Kano, Christian and Muslim, have been obliged to
follow a Muslim dress code since 2003, when Shekarau was elected
on the strength of his promise to implement a stricter version of
the sharia legal system.


Under the code, schoolgirls must wear a kaftan and trousers or
long skirts with a veil. Boys should wear a kaftan and trousers
with a cap.


Most of the more than 2,000 private schools in the state are
Islamic or have a mixture of both Muslim and Christian students.
A small minority are run by Christians.


Owing to the low standard of education in state-run schools, many
parents send their children to private schools.


Mustapha Ibrahim, a Muslim who runs a private school with both
Muslim and Christian pupils, said he was still awaiting official
notification of the new regulation from the education ministry.


"All schools in the state are on holidays and I think they will
tell us as soon as schools re-open", he said.


"If the government asks us to observe a dress code among our
students we will have no option but to do just that otherwise we
stand the risk of being penalised, and this may involve closure
of our school," he added.


Between 90 and 95 percent of people in Kano, the most populous
state in predominantly Muslim northern Nigeria, are estimated to
be Islamic.


In the other 11 northern states where Islamic sharia law is
practised, with varying degrees of strictness, Christian school
pupils are not obliged to respect Islamic dress codes.

