

US President George W. Bush will welcome Estonian President
Toomas Hendrik Ilves on June 25, the White House said Friday amid
a deepening diplomatic feud between Tallinn and Moscow.


"Estonia is a thriving example of how freedom has transformed the
nations of central and eastern Europe, and brought security and
prosperity to the people of the region," spokesman Tony Snow said
in a statement.


Relations between Moscow and Estonia went into a tailspin last
week when youths, many from the Baltic state's large Russian
minority, rioted in Tallinn over the removal of a World War II
monument to fallen Red Army soldiers.


Russians see the statue as a sacred memorial to the millions of
Soviet soldiers who died defeating fascism, while Estonians see
it as a painful reminder of their country's 50-year annexation by
the USSR.


A delegation from the Russian lower house Duma kicked off a two-
day fact-finding mission to Tallinn with a call for Prime
Minister Andrus Ansip to quit over the removal of the Bronze
Soldier war memorial.


Snow, who did not address the spiralling dispute, said "Estonia
shares the lessons of its success with others pursuing liberty in
their countries."


"A valued NATO ally, Estonia is making important contributions to
the security and development of Afghanistan, and to securing
freedom in Iraq. President Bush looks forward to discussing these
and other regional and international issues with President
Ilves," the spokesman said.

