

Italian rider Matteo Bono won the third stage of the Tour de
Romandie on Friday, but his breakaway group narrowly failed to
deprive Paolo Savoldelli of the yellow jersey after they
squandered a 19 minute lead.


The experienced Savoldelli held on to his overall lead by just a
handful of seconds over fellow Italian Marco Pinotti after his
rivals tired and hesitated in the final kilometres.


Bono and third-placed Pinotti had led for most of the 162.7km
stage between Moudon and Charmey en Gruyere along with Japan's
Fumiyuki Beppu, who finished second.


The three riders broke away from the peloton just minutes into
the race, building up a huge lead which then melted to less than
four minutes by the finish line.


"I wasn't calm. On the final climb I saw Marco was tiring. I knew
I was quicker and I waited until the finishing line," said Bono,
who had recorded his first big professional win earlier this year
with a stage in the Tirreno-Adriatico.


"I knew the Japanese rider was good because I raced against him
as an amateur," he added. Beppu is a two-time Japanese road
racing champion.


Pinotti, meanwhile, was more than four minutes behind Savoldelli
in the overall standings in 98th place at the start of the day.


Frenchman Christophe Moreau led the main pack to pick up fourth
place on the stage.


Once again Savoldelli's newly-formed Astana team, who are trying
to find their mark ahead of the Giro and the Tour de France,
succesfully defended their team leader by powering the peloton
forward over the final half of the stage into the Alpine
foothills.


Savoldelli has held the overall lead in the Tour de Romandie
since he won the prologue on Tuesday.


The riders face their biggest test on Saturday with a 155.9 km
stage through the Swiss mountains, which includes four major
climbs.


The Tour de Romandie ends on Sunday with a 20.4km time trial in
and around the Swiss city of Lausanne.

