

Workers at the southern French port of Marseille voted here
Saturday to end an 18-day strike after accepting an agreement
reached between management and labour leaders.


Strikers called off their action, which had paralyzed oil
terminals, at a 30-minute meeting called to consider a draft
accord hammered out after a second day of negotiations wound up
late Friday.


"One hundred percent of those present voted for resumption,"
Pascal Galeote, a local CGT union official told reporters.


"Everyone is keen to resume work as quickly as possible and this
will be done from the beginning of the afternoon," he added.


"We are satisfied but we remain vigilant for the meetings which
are planned."


The port's management confirmed that oil terminals at Marseille
port would resume operations on Saturday afternoon.


Dockers went on strike on March 14 to demand that the state-
controlled French gas utility GDF hire port workers from the
region to man a new terminal, GDF 2, at Fos-sur-Mer, due to come
on line in 2008.


GDF has argued that for safety reasons it will employ only its
own staff.


The French Union of Petroleum Industries had said that the holdup
at Europe's second-largest oil terminal was costing tanker
operators between 15,000 and 50,000 euros (19,980 and 66,614
dollars) a day, and could force some refineries in France,
Germany and Switzerland to halt production as of Monday.


About 60 ships remained blocked outside Marseille and Fos-sur-Mer
early Saturday, a port official said. On Friday, 64 ships,
including 34 oil tankers, had been stuck outside the
Mediterranean port, but five other tankers were allowed to anchor
in Marseille due to safety concerns, according to port
authorities.


According to the CGT, the agreement concerned the creation of the
equivalent of five full-time jobs for Marseille port workers at
the future terminal.

