

Doug Howlett became the most prolific try-scorer in the history
of Super rugby Saturday as the Auckland Blues scrambled to an
18-11 win over the Waikato Chiefs here Saturday.


Playing in his 99th Super match, Howlett scored one of three
tries by the Blues who staged a second-half revival to extend
their lead in the competition.


The local derby between the two New Zealand franchises always
brings out the best in the Chiefs who had won the previous three
encounters and were on track for a fourth win until a brief Blues
flurry midway through the second half.


Within minutes of coming off the bench, All Blacks hooker Keven
Mealamu grounded one try and then set up Howlett for his historic
score as the Blues went from 8-11 down to 18-11 up in the space
of four minutes.


It was the 58th try for Howlett, who also scored his first
against the Chiefs in 1997, and put him one ahead of former ACT
Brumbie Joe Roff.


Howlett was in no doubt which was his favourite touchdown.


"I can't look past tonight's one, really. There've been some
great tries but fresh in my mind is the one that was scored
tonight and that's one I'll remember for a long time."


Howlett saw little action in the first half where the Blues,
without injured hardman Troy Flavell, appeared ill at ease
against the physical approach adopted by a Chiefs pack boosted by
the return of Keith Robinson.


Stephen Donald landed two early penalties for the Chiefs to open
an early 6-0 lead, before Jerome Kaino scored the Blues' first
try diving on a lineout deflection.


The Chiefs responded with a try to Tasesa Lavea, while Isa Nacewa
added a penalty for the Blues and at halftime the home side led
11-8.


But the injection of Mealamu and Ali Williams spiced up the Blues
in the second half, giving them parity up front and paving the
way for the only two tries in the second spell.

