

Grant Hackett struck a psychological blow with a sub-15 minute
heat win Saturday as he battles to hold on to his 1500-metre
freestyle title at the world swimming championships.


The Australian superstar, bedevilled by poor form after a
disrupted preparation, has lost his 400m and 800m world titles
this week, but he brought the cheering home crowd to its feet
when he courageously won his heat.


There had been doubt as to whether Hackett would even turn up for
his heat but he duly pulled past American Erik Vendt (14:59.82)
to win in 14 minutes 59.24 seconds.


Hackett, whose four-time world 1500m crown is on the line on
Sunday's final day of the championships, finished fifth fastest
into the final behind Welshman David Davies (14:53.57) and
American Larsen Jensen (14:56.28).


South Korean youngster Park Tae-hwan, who took the 400m freestyle
title off Hackett last Sunday, missed out on the final after
finishing third in Hackett's heat in the ninth-fastest 15:03.62.


Hackett sent out a signal that he is not going to give up on a
world crown he has held since 1998.


"It's a step in the right direction. I was so close to not doing
the race but I thought, 'stuff it, I'm not going to worry what
other people think,' I'll just go out there and enjoy swimming,"
Hackett said.


"I never write myself off. I have had a rough couple of days so I
do need to build my confidence up."


Jensen paid tribute to Hackett's fighting win, but said he may
pay for it in the final.


"Obviously, any time you go under 15 minutes is not going to feel
too good, and that will be the same for Hackett," Jensen said.
"He was fast this morning, and it will definitely be a fast
final."


Leisel Jones, bidding for the breaststroke treble here, eased
into the semi- finals of the 50m event third-fastest behind
American Jessica Hardy.


Jones, who has already claimed the 100m and 200m breaststroke
double, clocked 31.39 behind Hardy's 30.85. New Zealand's Zoe
Baker was second fastest into the semis in 31.35.


"It was hard to get up after the 100m the night before but it
wasn't too bad," Jones said.


"My chances are not probably that great. Zoe Baker's the
specialist and I'm definitely not the favourite for this. It's
nice going in like this because I can swim any way I want."


American Kara Lynn Joyce beat world 100m freestyle champion Libby
Lenton by one- hundredths of a second as the fastest swimmer into
the semi-finals of the women's 50m freestyle.


Joyce clocked 25.23secs and Lenton 25.24secs ahead of Saturday's
semi-finals.


Sweden's Therese Alshammar, Germany's Britta Steffen, Australian
Jodie Henry and China's Xu Yanwei were within 0.2secs of the
pace.


German world record holder Thomas Rupprath grabbed the top
seeding into the semi-finals of the 50m backstroke in 25.25.


Rupprath, whose record stands at 24.80, was 0.22sec ahead of
South African Gerhard Zandberg (25.47) and fellow teammate
Steffen Driesen (25.52).


Newly-crowned 200m backstroke world champion Ryan Lochte of the
United States was fifth fastest in 25.68.


In the women's 4x100m medley relay, the United States qualified
quickest for the final later Saturday ahead of Australia and
Japan.

