

A Ukrainian court issued a ban on demonstrations in central Kiev
on Saturday after opposed political groups said they planned
rallies for and against holding early elections, the Interfax
news agency reported.


At a district court hearing Judge Igor Moroz said he had decided
to "satisfy the mayor of Kiev's request" for a one-day ban on
political gatherings in Independence Square in order to prevent
disturbances, Interfax reported.


The rallies were planned after pro-Western President Viktor
Yushchenko threatened on Thursday to dissolve parliament and hold
early elections.


He accused the pro-Russian coalition that dominates parliament of
trying to "usurp power" by persuading pro-Western lawmakers to
switch sides.


Supporters of the two main pro-Western parties had been due to
demonstrate in favour of dissolving parliament, while the
coalition of pro-Russian Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych was
bringing supporters from outlying provinces to oppose such a
move, Ukrainian media said.


Yushchenko and Yanukovych have been at logger-heads since the
prime minister emerged as the winner at parliamentary elections
in March last year.


Yushchenko originally vanquished Yanukovych when mass protests
known as the "orange revolution" forced a re-run of a flawed 2004
presidential election at which Yanukovych was originally declared
the winner.


The Ukrainian president favours full integration of this ex-
Soviet republic with the West, including the NATO military
alliance, while the prime minister, backed by Russian speakers
from the east and south of the country, is opposed to NATO
membership and favours links to Moscow.

