

French track legend Florian Rousseau has blasted the race tactics
of Australian Mark French, who was disqualified from the men's
keirin race here.


French was disqualified by race officials at the world track
cycling championships Friday after a potentially dangerous
manoeuvre which effectively ended the medal hopes of Rousseau's
star keirin rider Kevin Sireau.


Eventual gold medal winner Chris Hoy of Great Britain won the
second round heat, in which the top three go through to the
finals, ahead of defending Dutch champion Theo Bos and another
Australian, Shane Perkins.


Sireau, who had boosted his medals bid by coasting to victory in
his earlier first round heat, eventually finished last and out of
contention after French's sudden swerve to the right pushed the
Frenchman up near the seating.


Sireau went on to finish last in his heat, failing to qualify for
the finals and finishing the competition eighth overall.


French, who is virtually on probation for the Australian team
after being sent home from a World Cup event due to bad behaviour
off the track earlier this season, was immediately disqualified.


But for Rousseau, the sanction wasn't enough.


"French should be totally ashamed of what he did," blasted
Rousseau, who has been a coach with France since ending his
hugely successful career three years ago.


"The race jury applied the rules in disqualifying him, but if you
ask me they should have gone further.


"They should send out a message by suspending him from other
competitions, as happens in other sports. This whole rule should
be reviewed."


Sprint and keirin rider French, a former world junior champion,
is trying to resurrect his track-racing career, which stalled for
18 months following drug allegations that led to a two-year ban
in 2004.


The Court of Arbitration for Sport overturned the ban on July
2005.

