

Malaysia's top anti-corruption official, who is facing a police
investigation into graft allegations against him, will not have
his contract renewed, a report said Saturday.


Zulkipli Mat Noor's contract to head the Anti-Corruption Agency
(ACA) expires Saturday, according to the official Bernama News
Agency, which said the prime minister's department announced just
before midnight Friday that it would not be extended.


No reason was given, Bernama said.


Zulkipli, 57, has refuted the graft allegations -- made last July
by former ACA officer Mohamad Ramli Manan -- saying that
accusations of unaccounted wealth were "baseless".


"The government takes this opportunity to express the highest
gratitude and thanks to Zulkipli for his services as the ACA
director-general," Bernama quoted the prime minister's department
as saying.


Malaysian police have begun questioning Zulkipli, a former senior
policeman, over the allegations.


Parliamentary opposition leader Lim Kit Siang said the decision
not to renew Zulkipli's contract "has saved Prime Minister
Abdullah Ahmad Badawi from a firestorm of nationwide protest".


Lim said time was running out for Abdullah to salvage his anti-
gratft drive as Malaysia was gripped by "a full-blow corruption
crisis".


To fight corruption, Abdullah needed to consult lawmakers when
appointing a new anti-corruption chief and remove the ACA from
the jurisdiction of the prime minister's office and make it fully
independent.


Malaysians believe their country has an "acute" corruption
problem, international monitor Transparency International said
recently, warning the issue could drive away foreign investors.

