

Tenth seeded Novak Djokovic routed Andy Murray 6-1, 6-0 in
Friday's semi-finals of the 6.9 million dollar ATP/WTA Sony
Ericsson Open.


It marked the second time in the last two weeks that Djokovic
coasted past the Scottish teen in the semi-finals of an ATP
Masters Series event.


The Serb also cruised to a straight-sets victory in the last
meeting between the 19-year-olds at the Indian Wells semis.


"I'm very proud of myself," said Djokovic, who fell to world No.
2 Rafael Nadal in the Indian Wells final.


"I've managed to play two Master Series tournament finals in a
row. That's a real big achievement for me."


This one could not have been much easier as Djokovic needed just
62 minutes to dismiss Murray, who was lethargic throughout.


"I don't want to make any excuses today," Murray said. "He played
better than me, I wasn't very good. It was the worst match that
I've probably played since I've been on the tour."


Djokovic had reached the semi-finals with a hard-fought upset of
second seed Nadal in Wednesday's quarter-finals.


He picked up where he left off two days later, converting 71
percent of his first serves while breaking Murray five times.


The match swung Djokovic's way early. With the first set knotted
at 1-1, the Serbian faced a triple break point but rallied to
hold serve, broke Murray in the next game and never looked back.


"In that third game, I managed to come back from 0-40," Djokovic
said. "I made the break in the next service game off Andy. Even
though he had advantage, I played better. Since then, the match
was basically over."


"I had my chance at the start of the match to break him, and I
obviously played a bad service game in the next game," Murray
added. "Maybe if I got myself ahead, I could have got a bit more
confidence in my shots, but I let him get ahead."


Murray was coming off an easy win in the quarters against
American Andy Roddick, who retired in the first set with an
apparent hamstring injury.


The young Brit looked completely lost Friday, committing five
double faults to fall to 0-3 lifetime against Djokovic.


"I guess it's going to happen sometime in your career," Murray
said. "I'd rather it happened earlier so that I can learn from
it. You never want it to happen again. But it's a good humbling
experience, and I'll just have to try to improve on my game and
get better to make sure it never happens again."


Djokovic now will face either either No. 7 Ivan Ljubicic of
Croatia or unseeded upstart Guillermo Canas in the final.


The highest remaining seed in the depleted men's draw, Ljubicic
defeated No. 23 Juan Ignacio Chela of Argentina, 6-3, 7-5, in
Thursday's quarters to reach an ATP semi-final for the fourth
time this season.

