

South Asian foreign ministry officials  began laying the
groundwork on Saturday for a regional summit to be dominated by
trade talk amid warming ties between rivals India and Pakistan.


The meeting of foreign secretaries will review the progress of
panels formed under the South Asian Association for Regional
Cooperation (SAARC) forum which gets under way in New Delhi on
Tuesday, a foreign ministry official said.


New Delhi has repeatedly called for improvements in trade, travel
and telecommunications links among members of SAARC, long held
hostage by hostility between rivals India and Pakistan.


"Economic connectivity... for us is very important," India's
Foreign Secretary Shivshankar Menon told reporters this week.


Menon said the summit will focus on travel, telecommunications
and energy links in the region, which is home to nearly 1.4
billion people.


SAARC is made up of Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, the Maldives,
Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka. Afghanistan will be formally
inducted as the eighth member of the organisation.


For the first time, observers from world powers China, the
European Union, Japan, South Korea and the United States will
attend the summit.


The regional body has made little progress since its formation in
1985, largely because of tensions between India and Pakistan
which have fought three wars, two over the disputed Muslim-
majority region of Kashmir.


But analysts said the SAARC meeting could be more positive this
time because of improving ties between New Delhi and Islamabad
thanks to a formal peace process launched in 2004.


"The current orientation of cirumstances is far more favourable
for SAARC than ever before," said security expert Uday Bhaskar.


Indian Foreign Minister Pranab Mukherjee said last week that
expanding intra- regional trade and easing visa restrictions
would dominate the summit.

