

Bird flu has devastated egg production in Kuwait as authorities
culled a majority of the emirate's layer chickens amid a rise in
the number of H5N1 virus cases, officials said on Saturday.


Health Minister Maasuma al-Mubarak told a press conference the
number of birds infected with the deadly virus rose in the past
week from 57 to 96.


He added that no human case has been detected after tests on
around 552 people who had been in contact with the birds.


Twenty of the new cases were detected in three commercial poultry
farms in Wafra, south of Kuwait City on the Saudi border, where
authorities have culled 1.1 million layer chicken over the past
three days.


"This figure represents about 60 percent of total layer chickens
in Kuwait ... which produced 88 percent of local needs," said the
head of the agriculture authority, Jassem al-Bader.


Some 1.5 million fowls have been culled since the outbreak was
first reported on February 25, he said.


Bader said the three commercial poultry farms are among 16 in the
emirate.


Broiler poultry farms, where no case of bird flu had been
detected so far, produce about 32 million chicken annually.


Kuwait has slapped a total ban on the import and export of birds
and closed down bird markets, as well as hundreds of shops that
sell live chickens and the emirate's only zoo.


In November 2005, Kuwait announced the first case of a bird
infected with the deadly H5N1 strain -- a flamingo at a seaside
villa.


The H5N1 strain, the most aggressive form, has killed more than
160 people worldwide, according to the World Health Organisation,
and seen millions of birds destroyed.


H5N1 is an avian influenza subtype with pandemic potential, since
it might ultimately adapt into a strain that is contagious among
humans.

