

American wonder boy Michael Phelps remains on course for a record
eight golds after beating world champion Ian Crocker in the
100-metres butterfly at the world championships on Saturday.


It was Phelps' biggest obstacle to overcome at the world titles
having lost to Crocker in the finals of the event at the last two
championships, but he edged out his teammate to win in 50.77
seconds.


Athens Olympic champion Phelps had just 5-100ths of a second to
spare in a furious finish to equal Ian Thorpe's record of six
golds at a world championships, set back in 2001 at Fukuoka.


"That's how I won the Olympic medal. You have to nail the finish
as best you can," Phelps said.


"I tried to get my hand on the wall and try to take it out in the
first 50 as well."


Crocker set a cracking pace and reached the turn at just five-
hundredths of a second off his world record pace with Phelps
conceding almost half-second heading into the final 50m in third
place.


But Phelps steadily made ground on Crocker's lead and nabbed him
on the wall for a significant victory ahead of his two final
swims in the meet on Sunday's last day in the 400m individual
medley and in the 4x100m medley relay.


Crocker said he was disappointed he didn't go faster.


"It's never quite the race you want to (have). It was alright,"
he said.


"I always want to go faster. I always want to put my hand first
on the wall."


Crocker set a world record of 50.40sec on the way to winning gold
in the event at Montreal in 2005 and is the only swimmer to win
the event back-to-back at the world championships.


He was denied the gold medal at the 2004 Athens Olympics by
Phelps.


Venezuela's Albert Subirats Altes finished with the bronze medal
in 51.82, the country's first world championship medal ever.


"All those six or seven years of training. All this pain I went
through has been finally worth something," said Altes.


"It was an honour for me to be in this race, racing against
people I really admire."

