

Factbox on Australian swimming star Ian Thorpe following a
newspaper allegation that he provided a sample last May that
showed abnormally high readings for testosterone and luteinizing
hormone.


Ian Thorpe - Australia's greatest Olympian


Born: October 13, 1982


Olympic medal tally: Five gold, three silver, one bronze


Commonwealth medal tally: 10 gold, one silver


Wold championship medal tally: 11 gold, one silver, one bronze


World records: Current holder of 400m freestyle. Has set 13
individual long course world records.


1988: Takes up swimming at age five.


1996: Wins five titles at national age championships.


1997: Becomes youngest male swimmer to make an Australian senior
team when picked for the Pan Pacs in Japan, aged 14 years and
five months.


1998: At 15 becomes youngest men's world champion in swimming
history when he mows down Grant Hackett to win 400m title in
Perth. Thorpe has never been beaten over eight laps since.


1998: Collects four gold medals at the Kuala Lumpur Commonwealth
Games as well as his first world record as a member of the 4x200m
relay.


1999: Breaks Kieren Perkins' five-year-old 400m world record by
almost two seconds at Pan Pacs in Sydney, breaks Hackett's 200m
world mark the next day, lowers it the following day and helps
the 4x200m relay team break its world record a day later.


2000: Breaks his 400m world record and twice lowers 200m world
record at the national Olympic trials.


2000: Wins three gold and two silver medals at the Sydney
Olympics at age 17. Breaks his 400m world record on opening night
and wins second gold 80 minutes later when he anchors 4x100m
relay win from USA. Wins third gold in 4x200m relay and silver in
the 200m, behind Pieter van den Hoogenband, and medley relay.


2001: Claims the 800m freestyle world record and breaks his 200m
record at the national championships, also winning 100m and 400m.


2001: Breaks world records in the 200m, 400m and 800m freestyle
and wins record six gold medals at the world championships in
Fukuoka, Japan.


2002: Wins six gold medals at the Manchester Commonwealth Games
and breaks 400m world record with time of 3:40.08 which still
stands.


2002: Splits with coach Doug Frost and joins Tracey Menzies.


2003: Becomes first swimmer to win the same event at three world
titles when he wins the 400m in Barcelona. Also wins 200m and the
4x200m relay.


2004: False start drama when Thorpe falls off the blocks at the
Olympic trials and is later given the Games 400m berth by friend
Craig Stevens.


2004: Becomes Australia's most successful Olympian as he wins the
400m and 200m in Athens, beating van den Hoogenband and Michael
Phelps in 200m called the Race of the Century. Also takes silver
in 4x200m relay and a bronze in the 100m.


2005: Skips Montreal world championships as he takes a year off
following Athens.


2006: Qualifies for Melbourne Commonwealth Games but pulls out
after contracting glandular fever. Breaks his hand and moves to
Los Angeles to resume training, dogged by rumours of waning
motivation.


November 21, 2006: Announces his retirement from swimming.


March 31, 2007: FINA announces it will ask the Court of
Arbitration for Sport to investigate an allegation in French
newspaper L'Equipe that Thorpe returned an "adverse analytical
result" to a doping control test in May, 2006.

