

Heavy weapons fire broke out before dawn Saturday in the Somali
capital Mogadishu, which is experiencing its worst fighting in 15
years.


After a brief lull since nightfall, detonations could be heard
again at 2.30 am (2330 GMT Friday) as the Ethiopian army pressed
its land and air offensive against insurgents for the third
consecutive day.


"We don't know where to go. We are trapped in our houses and dead
bodies are lying in the street," a resident in the southern Ali
Kamin area, Ibrahim Duale told AFP.


"There is no chance of taking the wounded and dead people because
of the heavy artillery and anti-aircraft weapons. It is still
continuing and we cannot tell exactly the number of dead. I have
seen at least seven bodies and they all lived in the
neighbourhood," he said.


Buildings have sustained heavy damage in the onslaught. "The
whole area is demolished, totally demolished," another despairing
resident, Ali Hasan, said.


"You can see smoke coming out of everywhere and people are
confused. They don't have anywhere to run."


Fighting intensified Friday as rebels shot down an Ethiopian
helicopter gunship, killing the crew.


The Ethiopian government late Friday said its army had killed
more than 200 insurgents in Mogadishu since launching its
offensive to support the struggling Somali government.


The death toll was the highest since the start of the year, when
Ethiopian forces helped the Somali transitional government drive
out the leaders of the Islamist movement controlling Mogadishu.


The Geneva-based International Committee of the Red Cross
deplored the high number of civilian casualties and described the
fighting as the worst in more than 15 years.


The downing of the helicopter and the dragging of dead soldiers
through the streets this past week carried dark echoes of a
failed UN-backed US peace operation in Somalia in the early
1990s.

