

Malaysia's state energy firm Petronas will launch an oil
exploration survey off the southern coast of Myanmar, state media
said Saturday, amid growing foreign demand for the country's vast
resources.


Petronas will join hands with the state-run Myanmar Oil and Gas
Enterprise to survey offshore blocks, the official New Light of
Myanmar newspaper said, adding the survey would start early next
month.


Petronas Chartikari Myanma Oil, a joint venture between Petronas
and Myanmar's energy enterprise, have already explored for oil
and gas in seven offshore fields in the Andaman Sea, according to
official figures.


Military-run Myanmar has awarded a raft of foreign contracts over
the past months for oil and gas exploration following discoveries
by South Korea's Daewoo of natural reserves of up to 10 trillion
cubic feet in the Gulf of Bengal.


According to 2006 official figures, 13 foreign oil companies are
working on 33 energy projects in military-run Myanmar.


The natural gas wealth has become an increasingly important
source of desperately needed foreign currency for Myanmar, one of
the world's poorest nations, and its military rulers.


The Southeast Asian nation is under a series of US and European
economic sanctions imposed over the junta's rights abuses and the
house arrest of 61 -year-old democracy icon and Nobel peace
laureate Aung San Suu Kyi.


But the impact of the sanctions has been weakened as energy-
hungry neighbours such as China, India and Thailand are spending
billions of dollars for a share of Myanmar's vast energy
resources to solve their power problems.

