

All of Brazil's 49 airports were ordered shut down late Friday
amid chaos in South America's largest economy sparked by an air
traffic controllers' strike for better working conditions, the
state airports management agency Infraero said.


Ifraero announced that all takeoffs were cancelled across the
country of 190 million, and that the only operations allowed were
the landings of planes already in flight.


Controllers threatened to go on a hunger strike and stop work to
press their demands.


When some started following through, authorities demanded the
controllers get back to work or face penalties. Eighteen
controllers were ordered arrested for having walked off the job
and holed up at their workplaces, Globo television reported.


Airport waiting areas were jammed with thousands of people, many
desperate and confused by the situation.


The scale of the frustration was biggest in the biggest cities:
at Congonhas and Guarulhos airports in Sao Paulo, and the Rio de
Janeiro airports as well.


Among the most affected, most heavily trafficked are the airports
controlled by the Cindacta-1 control center in Brasilia. It is in
charge of flights in the states of Sao Paulo, Minas Gerais, Rio
de Janeiro, Espirito Santo, Goias, Brasilia, southern Tocantins
and Mato Grosso.


Brazil's air transport system has been in crisis for six months,
since controllers started working to rule to demand more be hired
and to demand that the entire flight management system be
upgraded after the worst air tragedy in Brazilian history last
September, when a Gol airlines Boeing 737 collided with a private
jet and plunged to the ground, killing 154 people.

