

The Philippines' flamboyant former first lady Imelda Marcos on
Saturday turned down calls by her supporters to run in upcoming
local and congressional elections.


The widow of deposed dictator Ferdinand Marcos said she was
"honored and grateful" for suggestions she run for Manila mayor,
but did not need to seek office as a former "mother" of the
country.


"I don't have to be elected mayor of Manila. For 20 years I was
privileged to be mother of the Filipino people and our country,"
Marcos said in a statement.


She did not say if she would be backing any candidates in the May
elections.


Marcos had earlier given conflicting signals on whether she would
run in the May 14 polls to elect 12 senators, some 250 members of
the House of Representatives and over 17,000 mayors, governors
and other local officials.


Her husband, Ferdinand Marcos, ruled the country for 20 years,
first as an elected president and then as a virtual dictator
after declaring martial law in 1972.


As the first lady, the former beauty queen led a jet-set, opulent
lifestyle, flying all over the world and being appointed to high
government positions.


She built a massive convention centre and highways as the country
went bankrupt, giving rise to sprawling squatter colonies on the
city's fringes.


After her husband was toppled in a popular revolt in 1986, the
Marcos family was forced into exile in Hawaii, where the dictator
died three years later. The Marcos family is estimated to have
stolen some 10 billion dollars from state coffers.


A mob that descended into the presidential palace after their
departure found a treasure trove in Imelda's private chambers,
consisting of jewellery, some 1,500 pairs of shoes, countless
dresses, and paintings by the masters.


The Marcos heirs were later allowed to return to the Philippines,
and none of them or their cronies have been convicted despite
numerous graft cases filed against them.

