

An 18-day strike by workers at the French port of Marseille could
end on Saturday after a tentative agreement was reached between
management and labour leaders.


Strikers were due to consider the draft accord Saturday morning,
regional governor Christian Fremont told journalists after a
second day of negotiations wound up here late Friday.


The French Union of Petroleum Industries (UFIP) said earlier that
the holdup at Europe's second-largest oil terminal was costing
tanker operators between 15,000 and 50,000 euros (19,980 and
66,614 dollars) a day, and could force some refineries in France,
Germany and Switerland to halt production as of Monday.


A total of 64 ships, including 34 oil tankers, remained blocked
outside the Mediterranean port, but five other tankers were
allowed to anchor in Marseille on Friday due to safety concerns,
according to port authorities.


Dockers launched the strike on March 14 to demand that the state-
controlled French gas utility GDF hire port workers from the
region to man a new terminal, GDF 2, at Fos-sur-Mer, due to come
on line in 2008.


GDF has argued that for safety reasons it will employ only its
own staff.


Pascal Galeote, a local CGT union official, said port workers
would be present under the draft compromise, adding: "We think we
have a draft that can be acceptable."


The French business daily Les Echos had reported on its website
that the government wanted to force Gaz de France to accept that
five Marseille port workers be detached to work in its teams, in
a bid to end the strike.


It reported that the regional governor, or prefect, would submit
a proposal to both parties at Friday's meeting, following talks
at the offices of Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin.


The UFIP has warned that consumers could be hit by fuel shortages
at the start of April, causing disruptions just three weeks ahead
of the French presidential election.

