

Michael Phelps is on the verge of creating history on the final
day of the world swimming championships with a record gold medal
haul here Sunday.


The American marvel has dominated the 12th championships and is
poised to overtake Ian Thorpe's record of six gold medals at the
2001 Fukuoka world championships on the last day of competition
after an unforgettable week.


Phelps, the 21-year-old American wonder, has served notice that
Mark Spitz's record seven golds at the 1972 Olympics is on notice
at next year's Beijing Olympics with an astonishing series of
swims here.


He broke three world records, including Thorpe's six-year-old
200m freestyle mark, to mark himself as the greatest in
contemporary swimming.


Phelps will be swimming in the 400m individual medley and 4x100m
medley relay on the final night and looks set to take gold in
both.


Australian Grant Hackett also faces his moment of truth, but at
the other end of the spectrum, fighting to retain his unbeaten
10-year run in the 1500m freestyle, which has netted him four
consecutive world titles.


Hackett, in the midst of a career crisis, has relinquished his
400/800m freestyle world crowns in Melbourne.


He now has a massive fight on his hands to hang on to his world
title from Britain's David Davies and American Larsen Jensen in
the 1500m.


Davies, last year's Melbourne Commonwealth Games champion, swept
into favouritism to break Hackett's monopoly on the 1500m since
1998 with the fastest time of 14:53.57 in the heats.


Jensen, the silver medallist behind Hackett in the event at the
2004 Athens Olympics, was second fastest in 14:56.28 and with
Davies represents a huge threat to Hackett.


Hackett, whose four-time world 1500m crown is on the line, is
fifth fastest into the final in 14:59.24.


American Katie Hoff is vying for the women's medley double in the
400m event on Sunday.


Hoff swam the fourth-fastest time ever to retain the 200m
individual medley and is looking to repeat her 400m title success
from the 2005 Montreal championships.


Australian Leisel Jones is bidding for the breaststroke treble in
the 50m event after taking out the 100/200m events.


Another Australian Libby Lenton is in line for the 50m freestyle
along with American Kara Lynn Joyce, Sweden's Therese Alshammar,
Germany's Britta Steffen, and Australian Jodie Henry.

