

Dirk Nowitzki again made his case for Most Valuable Player
honors, but Josh Howard saved the game Friday as the Dallas
Mavericks set a club record for victories in a National
Basketball Association season.


Nowitzki scored 17 of his 30 points in the fourth quarter and
Howard's acrobatic block on the final possession as the Mavs
edged the New York Knicks 105-103.


Howard had 20 points and eight rebounds for Dallas, who improved
to 61-11 and hold a 7 1/2-game lead over Phoenix for the top spot
in the Western Conference.


The Knicks have been ravaged by injuries to key players,
including guard Jamal Crawford (stress fracture ankle), forward
David Lee (ankle) and forward Quentin Richardson (back). Things
got worse on Wednesday when guard Steve Francis sprained his
ankle.


Despite the injuries, the Knicks fought hard against the NBA's
best team, only to be done in by one of its top players.


Nowitzki, who left the Mavericks' game on Wednesday after
twisting his ankle, repeatedly squared up New York forward Jared
Jeffries on the perimeter and drained numerous jumpers down the
stretch - shooting 6-of-9 from the field in the final period.


The All-Star forward was 10-of-21 from the floor, including
2-of-4 from 3-point range, and 8-of-8 from the free-throw line.


Stephon Marbury kept New York in the game, scoring a season-high
43 points on 14-of-29 shooting from the field, including 5-of-12
on 3-pointers. But Marbury was turned away by Howard on the
game's final possession.


After Jason Terry's free throw made it 105-103 with 17.2 seconds
left, Marbury drove the right baseline and was rejected by
Howard, who sent the ball towards the sideline as time expired.


New York fell two games behind New Jersey for the eighth and
final playoff spot in the East.


The Nets dropped a 110-105 decision to the Detroit Pistons on
Friday.

