

Llanelli Scarlets stunned reigning champions Munster 24-15 in the
European Cup quarter-finals at Stradey Park here on Friday.


Llanelli will play away to the winners of Sunday's Leicester-
Stade Francais quarter-final tie following this highly impressive
and convincing victory.


Only a late converted try from Donnacha Ryan put some
respectability on a scoreline that rarely looked in doubt.


Munster lacked Paul O'Connell in their pack and two missed
penalties by fly-half Ronan O'Gara in the ninth and 30th minutes
proved costly as Llanelli opened up a 17-0 lead at the break.


The Scarlets played a high-tempo free-flowing game and pressure
defence as they rattled their Irish visitors.


They took the lead after just five minutes after Dafydd James
plucked Dwayne Peel's high kick out of the air to touch down in
the corner, despite pressure from Ian Dowling and Christian
Cullen.


The move had been set up by good work from the Welsh pack,
particularly the instrumental Alix Popham.


Munster fought their way back into the game but fell further
behind after Barry Davies landed a stunning 51m penalty three
minutes before the break.


And right at the end of the first half, Gavin Thomas stretched
out an arm to score the hosts' second try.


Llanelli kept the pressure on at the start of the second half and
Regan King was denied a try by mere centimetres on 57 minutes.


Soon after, O'Gara finally put Munster on the scoreboard and with
Llanelli lock Inoke Afeoki sin-binned on 63-minutes, it looked as
if an unlikely comeback could become a reality.


Munster scored a try through Dowling with their numerical
superiority but Davies put the tie beyond any doubt with the
third Scarlets try.


The last two quarter-final ties see Wasps host Leinster and
Northampton travel to Biarritz.

