

Britain should avoid politicising the seizure of its 15 navy
personnel if it wants the crisis resolved, Foreign Minister
Manouchehr Mottaki was quoted as saying on Saturday.


"British leaders should avoid media storms and politicisation to
prevent a further complication of the affair," local media quoted
him as telling his Australian counterpart, Alexander Downer, in a
telephone conversation.


Britain has received strong support from both the United States
and the European Union, with both calling for the immediate
release of the sailors and marines detained by Iran last week.


Tehran has so far refused to bow to mounting world pressure to
release the Britons it says illegally entered Iran's territorial
waters. London insists they were on a routine anti-smuggling
patrol in Iraqi waters.


In a conversation with Japanese Foreign Minister Taro Aso,
Mottaki said the "British should accept that a violation of
Iran's territorial waters has taken place and pledge guarantees
it will not happen again."


Several conservative MPs and clerics are demanding that the
detainees be put on trial.


Iran's ambassador to Russia, Gholam Reza Ansari, has said "the
British marines who entered Iranian waters could go on trial for
this illegal act," the official IRNA news agency reported.


"The legal process has started for the British troops and if the
accusations are proven they will be punished," he was quoted as
telling a Russian news channel on Friday night.


Foreign ministry officials could not be reached for comment on
the report.


The crisis escalated after Iran aired new television footage on
Friday of a British sailor "confessing" to trespassing in its
waters and apologising.


Iran has also released three letters attributed to servicewoman
Faye Turney, saying she had been "sacrificed" to the policies of
Britain and the United States and calling for British troops to
withdraw from Iraq.

