

The Security Council will meet next Tuesday to review UN chief
mediator Martti Ahtisaari's plan to grant supervised independence
to the Serbian province of Kosovo, diplomatic sources said
Friday.


The sources said Ahtisaari would brief the 15-member body on his
recommendations for the Albanian-majority breakaway province
which were unveiled earlier this week.


Tuesday's council session will not lead to any decision and no
text will be circulated, the sources added.


Serbian Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica, who is strongly
opposed to the Ahtisaari plan, is to attend next week's Council
session here, his office said Friday.


Russia, a close ally of Belgrade and a veto-wielding council
member, has also stepped up its opposition to the Ahtisaari plan
ahead of next month's formal debate in the Council, which is to
consider Kosovo's future status.


Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov warned Thursday that
Ahtisaari "will fail" if he pursues his current plan for Kosovo.


"This problem can't be solved without taking into account the
positions of the two conflicting sides, Belgrade and Pristina.
Ahtisaari has decided to ignore them, but I think he will fail,"
Lavrov was quoted by Interfax news agency as saying.


Council members are meanwhile also expected at Tuesday's session
to discuss Moscow's suggestion that the Security Council
undertake a fact-finding mission to Belgrade and Kosovo's main
city of Pristina, a diplomat, who spoke on condition of
anonymity, said.


He said the Russian proposal was likely to be endorsed by the
council.


Kosovo has been under UN administration since NATO bombing in
1999 helped to drive out Serbian forces waging a brutal crackdown
on ethnic Albanians.

