

US and South Korean negotiators have extended the deadline in
their free trade talks by 48 hours, Seoul officials said
Saturday.


The new deadline will expire at 1:00 am Monday (1600 GMT Sunday,
noon Sunday Washington time), they told a press briefing after a
marathon 22-hour negotiating session.


"We have decided to have another 48 hours of talks by extending
the original 1:00 am Saturday deadline," top negotiator Kim Jong-
Hoon said. "So talks will continue until 1:00 am, Monday April
2."


The US Trade Representative's office in Washington confirmed the
extension.


"Negotiations continue between the US and the Republic of Korea
on a number of outstanding issues," spokesman Sean Spicer said in
a statement.


"The negotiations must conclude by 12:00 pm (Washington time) on
Sunday April 1 so that the administration can decide whether to
notify Congress of its intent to sign by Sunday, April 1, the
deadline for Congressional notification under Trade Promotion
Authority," Spicer said.


Earlier, the White House warned that the talks "aren't going
well" -- a sentiment echoed by a top South Korean negotiator in
the banking sector.


"The talks aren't going well, and unless the negotiations show
some signs of significant progress in the next few hours this
agreement will most likely not come together," White House
spokeswoman Dana Perino said.


Monday is the last day on which the deal can be submitted to
Congress for a mandatory 90-day review if it is to be voted on
while President George W. Bush retains his Trade Promotion
Authority.

