

At least 22 Islamists were arrested in overnight raids as
Bangladesh strengthened security nationwide on Saturday after
authorities hanged six top Muslim militants, police said.


The 22 Islamists, all alleged activists of the group Hizbut
Tahrir Bangladesh, were arrested as they watched anti-US footage
of the Iraq war at a house in the capital Dhaka, city police
chief Nayeem Ahmed said.


"We have arrested them on suspected extremist links. We found
videos showing the US war in Iraq, leaflets and other suspicious
extremist materials. They also broke the government's emergency
laws on political gatherings," he said.


Hizbut Tahrir, which aims to establish a global Islamic empire
through peaceful political means, is banned in many countries but
not in Muslim-majority Bangladesh.


Police said they also carried out raids across the country, one
day after six top Islamic militants, including the leader of the
outlawed Jamayetul Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB), were executed in
four different jails.


The militants were sentenced to death last year for an attack
that killed two judges in November 2005. Authorities say the JMB
was also behind 400 coordinated blasts that shook the country in
August that year.


An additional 2,000 police were deployed in key spots in Dhaka to
prevent any revenge JMB attacks, Ahmed said.


"We've set up checkposts in front of key mosques, main roads and
important government buildings to prevent attack. We don't want
to leave anything to chance," he said.


"Some JMB militants have been arrested in recent days so we think
remnants of the group are still there."

