

Kobe Bryant reached the 50-point plateau for the fifth time in
seven games Friday, but his two late-game blunders gave the
Houston Rockets a 107-104 overtime triumph over the Los Angeles
Lakers.


Yao Ming had 39 points and 11 rebounds and fellow All-Star Tracy
McGrady had 30 points and 10 assists for the Rockets, who have
lost only lost twice in their last 13 National Basketball
Association games.


Bryant, a nine-time All-Star, scored 53 points to finish the
month of March with a 40.4 average - the first NBA player since
Wilt Chamberlain achieved the feat.


Bryant shot 19-of-44 from the field, including 3-of-9 from
3-point range, and made 12-of-14 free throws.


In the extra session, Bryant poured in eight straight points and
Lamar Odom split a pair of foul shots as the Lakers opened a
104-100 edge with 1:02 to play.


But Bryant fouled McGrady behind the 3-point line, and the star
swingman made all three of his free throws to make it a one-point
game. Juwan Howard's rebound and assist to Yao gave the Rockets a
105-104 lead with 22 seconds left.


On the ensuing possession, Bryant was called for traveling at
mid-court, and Rafer Alston sank a pair from the line for a
three-point edge.


Los Angeles had a chance to force another overtime, but Bryant
missed a 3-pointer in the final seconds.


Houston led 95-92 in regulation, before Bryant ran down teammate
Kwame Brown's second missed free throw and drained the game-tying
3-pointer from in front of the Rockets' bench with 11 seconds to
go.


McGrady had a chance to win it but missed a pull-up jumper as
time expired.

