

A Moroccan singer who is a member of an influential Islamist
organisation has been sentenced to a month in prison for
adultery, a legal source said on Saturday.


The term was handed down to Rachid Moutchou, also known as Gholam
Nakib Chouaba, as well as female defendant, Asmaa Rkik, overnight
after the case came to court Friday in the western town of El
Jadida.


The two, who must also pay a fine of 1,000 dirhams (90 euros)
each, have the right to appeal within 10 days.


The case has caused major public debate.


On Friday, the 25-year-old's lawyer said that his client was set
up by police who wanted to discredit the Islamist organisation he
belongs to.


Lawyer Issam Brahimi told AFP that his client said he had been
kidnapped in Casablanca and taken to El Jadida, "where he was
tortured by police, who organised for him to be caught red-handed
committing adultery".


On Monday, the official MAP news agency cited police sources
saying that officers in El Jadida had caught Moutchou in the act
with a woman named Asmaa Rkik.


Moutchou began his career in upmarket Casablanca bars at the age
of 13, before moving to religious songs after joining Al Adl Wal
Ihssane, the Islamist association led by sheikh Abdessalam
Yassine.


Al Adl Wal Ihssane, meaning justice and charity, is considered by
the press as the most influential Islamist group in Morocco,
although it has never been officially recognised by the state.


But an official from the justice ministry told AFP: "The case
against Rachid Moutchou is truthful and the evidence of his guilt
exists. It is contained in the reports put before the court."


He added: "The suspect told the prosecution he was beaten during
his arrest but a medical examination ordered by the court
categorically denied this."

