

India's Tata Power said Saturday it is buying 30 percent stakes
in two Indonesian coal producers for 1.1 billion dollars, giving
it access to one of the world's largest exporting thermal coal
mines.


Tata Power, part of India's sprawling Tata Group conglomerate,
has signed agreements to purchase 30 percent equity stakes in PT
Kaltim Prima Coal (KPC) and PT Arutmin Indonesia (Arutmin) as
well as in a related trading company owned by PT Bumi Resources
Tbk (Bumi).


The move "secures our fuel requirements in light of aggressive
growth plans charted out by the company," Tata Power managing
director Prasad Menon was quoted as saying by the Press Trust of
India.


The deal also "opens up opportunities for Tata Power to own and
operate a range of world-class, competitive and profitable
electricity and energy businesses in India and overseas," Menon
said in a company statement.


Tata Power will pay 1.1 billion dollars for the purchase before
various financial adjustments. The acquisition would be made
through an offshore Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) to be formed.


As part of the purchase, Tata Power has signed an offtake
agreement with KPC, which entitles it to purchase about 10
million tonnes of coal a year.


This purchase supports Tata Power's power projects on India's
west coast enabling it to generate 7,000 megawatts over the next
five years.


These projects need 21 million tonnes of imported coal, which
Tata Power plans to secure by buying equity stakes in coal mines
and striking offtake contract deals.


The Indonesian coal companies rank among the top three largest
exporting thermal coal mines in the world. Together, KPC and
Arutmin produced around 53.5 million tonnes of coal in 2006 with
over 95 percent exported.


Fast-growing regional demand for thermal coal coupled with supply
constraints in some exporting nations has pushed up coal prices.

