

British former hostage and Church of England negotiator Terry
Waite said Saturday he would be prepared to go to Iran to try to
negotiate the release of 15 captured naval personnel.


Waite spent four years in solitary confinement after being
captured in Beirut in 1987 by the Islamic Jihad group, a pro-
Iranian organisation.


He had been trying to negotiate the release of a group of
American hostages as an advisor to the then head of the Anglican
church, Archbishop of Canterbury Robert Runcie.


Waite has a successful track record of negotiating with Iran for
the release of captives -- in 1981, he negotiated face-to-face
with the Revolutionary Guard to free a group of Britons and
Iranians accused of spying.


"What I would be quite prepared to do is to go out there purely
as a humanitarian, I'd have no discussions with the Foreign
Office or anybody," he told Sky News television.


"I would hope that the Iranians would behave in the same
courteous way to me as they behaved before, would perhaps give me
access to the people they have detained just to be assured of
their welfare so that can be conveyed to their families and begin
to see if we can find a sensible way through this problem."


Stressing he would not go as a government envoy, Waite said "I
would be on the next plane" if he received a sign from Iran that
they were happy for him to go.


"Iran has been vilified over the last years and has been subject
to all sorts of difficulties from the West," he said.


"All this talk about force and violence and pushing people
against the wall, it gets us nowhere, absolutely nowhere.


"What we have to do is get beneath the problem and try and find a
face-saving way out of this difficulty."

