

A leading Chinese diplomat departed for North Korea on Tuesday,
state press said, with the international community waiting for
Pyongyang to shut down its nuclear reactor as agreed.


A six-member delegation headed by Liu Hongcai, vice head of the
international department of the ruling Communist Party, left for
North Korea at the invitation of the Worker's Party of Korea,
Xinhua news agency reported.


The short dispatch did not mention the purpose of Liu's visit but
the Communist Party's international department plays a key role
in China's foreign affairs and is often seen as a shadow foreign
ministry.


The visit comes as the United States and South Korea expressed
their strong hope that North Korea will start to shut down its
nuclear weapons programme soon despite missing a weekend
deadline.


US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and Foreign Minister Song
Min-Soon agreed to allow North Korea "a few more days" to shut
down its Yongbyon reactor under the February 13 agreement, South
Korea's foreign ministry said.


In return Pyongyang would receive 50,000 tonnes of fuel oil as
part of initial steps toward the complete dismantling of its
nuclear programme that will also bring the impoverished country
more fuel and aid and eventual diplomatic recognition.


China, the two Koreas, the United States, Japan and Russia have
been negotiating an end to North Korea's nuclear programmes since
2003, talks that have been highlighted by the North's nuclear
bomb test in October last year and a ballistic missile test in
July.


The visit of the Chinese delegation came as South Korea's
intelligence service said US satellites had spotted unusual
activity around the Yongbyon reactor, with local South Korean
news reports saying Pyongyang may be preparing to turn it off.

