

Palestinian police scuffled with reporters in Gaza City on
Tuesday during a solidarity protest in support of kidnapped BBC
journalist Alan Johnston.


As authorities probed a claim by an obscure Islamist group that
it had killed Johnston, more than 100 Palestinian journalists
gathered outside parliament in their latest demonstration in his
support.


But policemen pushed and shoved the reporters, carrying pictures
of Johnston and shouting slogans for his release, as they tried
to enter the building.


"Free, free Alan Johnston!", "No, no to kidnappings!" shouted the
reporters as they scuffled with police and continued their
protest rally.


It was the latest in a string of solidarity demonstrations that
Palestinian journalists have held in support of the 44-year-old
Johnston, who was snatched at gunpoint from his car as he drove
home from work on March 12 and who has become the longest-held
Westerner in the increasingly lawless territory.


On Sunday, an Islamist group claimed that it had killed Johnston,
one of the few Western reporters to have both lived and worked in
the territory.


The Palestinian government has said that so far there was no
proof that the claim by the little-known group, Kataeb al-Jihad
al-Tawheed (The Brigades of Holy War and Unity), was true.


"We don't have any information that can confirm the authenticity
of the statement," prime minister Ismail Haniya said on Monday.
"We are following this affair. We are examining all avenues to
confirm the authenticity of this information, but for the moment
it is not confirmed."


No Westerner has so far been killed after being abducted in Gaza,
where hostages are generally used to lever concessions from the
authorities and are usually released unharmed within days of
their kidnapping.

