

The Macau bank at the heart of a dispute delaying an
international deal on North Korea's nuclear disarmament said it
would challenge a US decision barring it from doing business with
US banks.


Calling the US Treasury Department's ruling "arbitrary and
capricious", Banco Delta Asia (BDA) said the decision was
"politically motivated since it was based on disputes between the
US and North Korea".


In a statement, the BDA said the United States had ignored the
remedial measures it had taken and had filed a petition with the
US Treasury to have the decision overturned.


"With this filing, the bank seeks a fair hearing on all the
evidence, free from political intervention and the distraction of
public diplomacy," said Joseph McLaughlin of Heller Ehrman,
counsel to the bank.


"We are confident that the US legal system, in the end, will not
countenance the sacrifice of legal rights to political ends," he
said.


Pyongyang missed an April 14 deadline to start shutting down a
nuclear reactor as part of an international disarmament deal,
saying it would not do so until it had received the money frozen
in BDA.


The US Treasury and the Macau Monetary Authority said last week
the North Korea was free to access the funds and Washington hoped
that it would meet a deadline to shut down its nuclear weapons
program in exchange for foreign aid.


But it missed last Saturday's deadline and North Korea has not
withdrawn the money.


"The Banco Delta petition risks making the wider diplomatic
effort much harder," one diplomatic source told the South China
Morning Post newspaper in Hong Kong.


The funds were initially frozen at US instigation after
Washington imposed unilateral sanctions on North Korea in
September 2005, when negotiations on the North's disarmament were
stalled.


After the United States named BDA a "primary money-laundering
concern" for North Korea, the Macau Monetary Authority took
control of the bank.

