

Hundreds of security forces were deployed Tuesday in India's
restive northeast after six people were killed in gunfights
between rival separatist groups, police said.


Three people were shot dead Tuesday in retaliation for the
killing of three others Monday in the northeastern state of
Nagaland, police said.


The outbreak of violence between two rival factions of the
National Socialist Council of Nagaland (NSCN) occurred despite a
ceasefire between the government and the separatists.


"Security forces have now been fanned for area domination to
bring the situation under control. We are still not out of the
woods," L.L. Doungel, Deputy Inspector General of Nagaland
Police, told AFP by telephone.


The official said heavily-armed militants of the Isak Muivah
faction of the group (NSCN-IM) clashed with the rival Khaplang
group. At least half a dozen Khaplang rebels were injured in the
attack.


"In one incident NSCN-IM militants attacked and killed three
members of the rival Khaplang group. In retaliatory strikes,
cadres of the NSCN-Khaplang faction killed three of their rival
members," Doungel said.


Violent insurgency in Nagaland has claimed around 25,000 lives
since India's independence in 1947.


Tribal separatist groups in the state demand the creation of a
"Greater Nagaland" to unite 1.2 million Naga tribals living in
the region.


But the demand, which would involve slicing off parts of three
neighbouring Indian states is strongly opposed by New Delhi.


Both the groups have observed a ceasefire with New Delhi for the
past year, but are now engaged in a fratricidal war for
territorial supremacy.

