

British supermarket giant Tesco, the country's biggest retailer,
said on Tuesday that net profits soared by a fifth in 2006 to a
record 1.892 billion pounds (2.777 billion euros, 3.767 billion
dollars).


Net profits leapt by 20.5 percent to reach the record level,
which compared with a figure of 1.570 billion pounds in 2005, the
group said in its annual earnings release.


Tesco, which has 3,000 supermarket branches worldwide including
1,800 in Britain, said that revenue rose by 8.1 percent to 42.641
billion pounds, driven by strong sales in Asia, eastern Europe
and its home market.


Pre-tax profits leapt by 13.2 percent last year to 2.545 billion
pounds, which was at the top end of market expectations.


Alongside the results, Tesco said it would create 25,000 new jobs
around the world this year.


The group will also return "at least" 3.0 billion pounds to
shareholders in 2007, compared with the 1.5 billion pounds
announced previously.


"Tesco is investing for the future and delivering today," said
Tesco chief executive Terry Leahy in comments accompanying the
release.


"These results demonstrate that we have again made good progress
across the group, whilst making significant start-up investment
in new businesses and coping well with challenging conditions in
some markets."


Tesco is the world's third-biggest retailer behind French
supermarket Carrefour and US giant Wal-Mart, which is out in
front.


Tesco accounts for one third of the total retail market in
Britain -- equal to the combined sales of its two nearest rivals,
which are Wal-Mart unit Asda and Sainsbury.

