

Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf told top military officers
that ties with India have never been better amid an ongoing peace
process, an official statement said Tuesday.


Nuclear-armed rivals India and Pakistan have fought three wars
since independence six decades ago, but in 2004 embarked on a
peace dialogue focused on their dispute over the Himalayan
territory of Kashmir.


"Relations between Pakistan and India have never been better," a
statement quoted Musharraf as telling a conference of commanders
in the garrison city of Rawalpindi, near Islamabad, on Monday.


"There is positive movement in resolution of issues of conflict,
especially Kashmir," Musharraf said, adding however that
Pakistan's national interests "will not be lost sight of."


Military ruler Musharraf also said there had been an increase in
economic activity between the two countries and that "confidence-
building measures" had boosted cultural and sporting ties.


The tensions that remain on the subcontinent were underscored on
Monday however when India's defence minister accused Pakistan of
continuing to support cross- border terrorism in Indian-
administered Kashmir.


Pakistan denies the charge.


The two countries made no headway at a meeting in Islamabad
earlier this month on a possible withdrawal from the mountainous
Siachen glacier in Kashmir, dubbed the world's highest
battlefield.


Mainly-Muslim Pakistan and Hindu-majority India each hold part of
Kashmir and claim it in its entirety. The region has sparked two
of their major wars and a number of smaller conflicts.


Tensions also flared last year after train bombings in the
southern Indian financial hub of Mumbai killed 186 people and
India accused Pakistan's intelligence service of involvement.


However, both sides remained calm in February when 68 people died
in the firebombing of a Pakistan-bound train in northern India.

