

A US-based human rights group Tuesday condemned Washington's
decision to host Cambodian police chief Hok Lundy for counter-
terrorism talks, saying he is implicated in numerous crimes.


Cambodia's top police officer will be in Washington Thursday for
discussions with the Federal Bureau of Investigation, "even
though (he) has been implicated in what the FBI itself has
classified as a terrorist act," Human Rights Watch said.


The group was referring to the 1997 grenade attack against anti-
government demonstrators which killed at least 19 people and
wounded more than 120 others.


The FBI officially called the attack an act of terrorism.


"According to information Human Rights Watch has shared with the
US government, Hok Lundy was part of a conspiracy to carry out"
the attack, the group said in a statement.


It added that security personnel loyal to Hok Lundy carried out
hundreds of extrajudicial killings following the July 1997 coup
against then co-prime minister Prince Norodom Ranariddh.


Hok Lundy has also been implicated in drugs and human
trafficking, the group said, citing evidence given by US Drug
Enforcement Agency officials and a former US ambassador to
Cambodia.


"The State Department's human trafficking office specifically
cited Hok Lundy's alleged involvement in human trafficking as
grounds for denying him a visa," Human Rights Watch said.


US embassy officials in Phnom Penh could not be reached for
comment Tuesday, and Hok Lundy has repeatedly denied all of the
allegations against him.


But "Hok Lundy's alleged involvement in political violence and
organised crime in Cambodia means that the FBI should be
investigating him, not hosting him," said Brad Adams, Asia
director at Human Rights Watch.


"By inviting Hok Lundy to discuss the rule of law and effective
police enforcement, the US government is likely to breed cynicism
among Cambodians about its commitment to human rights and
political reform," he added.

