

Israeli Deputy Prime Minister Shimon Peres said on Tuesday that
Syria had to stop using "the language of ultimatums" in its peace
overtures to the Jewish state.


"The time of using the language of ultimatums has passed... It is
time that Syria seriously consider peace," Peres told Israeli
public radio.


He was responding to comments by Syrian Information Minister
Mohsen Bilal, who warned on Monday that Israel would face the
alternative of "resistance" if it rejected Arab peace
initiatives.


"Syria is favourable towards relaunching the peace process in the
presence of Russian and American mediators," Bilal told
journalists in Damascus.


"Syria wants to reach a just and comprehensive peace. If Israel
rejects the Arab peace initiative and principle of land for
peace, then the resistance will continue the alternative to get
back the Golan Heights," he said.


Peace talks between Israel and Syria collapsed in 2000, mainly
because of deadlock over the return of the Golan, which Israel
captured from Syria in the 1967 Six Day War and unilaterally
annexed in 1981.


Israel has repeatedly rejected peace overtures by Syrian
President Bashar al- Assad in recent months, saying Damascus must
first stop supporting militant groups in Lebanon and the Gaza
Strip.


However, Prime Minister Ehud Olmert said on Sunday that Israel
was ready for talks with Arab states over their peace plan
relaunched at a summit last month that offers normalised
relations in exchange for Arab land captured in 1967, the
creation of a Palestinian state and the return of refugees.


Israel, which rejected the plan when it was first unveiled in
2002, has now said that it could provide a basis for talks
provided there are amendments on the refugee issue.

