

Olympic Council of Asia president Sheikh Ahmad Al-Fahad Al-Sabah
on Tuesday encouraged Qatar to formalise its bid for the 2016
Olympics, joining Tokyo as the Asian nations in the race.


Bid cities must submit a letter of interest to the International
Olympic Committee (IOC) by September 15, with the host chosen in
2009.


The Qatari capital, Doha, expressed its intentions after
successfully holding the Asian Games in December, and Sheikh
Ahmad, an IOC member, said they were more than capable, but
cautioned there were points to work on.


"On the organisation side, and facilities, they are capable of
doing it but there are also some weak points," he told AFP at the
OCA congress here.


"The size of Qatar, the marketing program, the concerns of the
International Olympic Committee with the interest in the Games.
Qatar must think seriously how they can solve this.


"Until now they have announced their interest, but they are still
waiting. We also have Tokyo in Asia.


"Both are capable of hosting an Olympic Games."


Doha hosted what was considered to be the best Asian Games ever
in December, with gleaming new stadiums and infrastructure, but
it was short on atmosphere, with fans staying away from key
events like football.


IOC insiders also made unflattering comments about the
organisation of the transport -- a crucial factor in any Olympic
bid -- after IOC members were caught in pouring rain after the
opening ceremony because there were no buses.


Tokyo, Rio de Janeiro and Prague have already announced rival
2016 bids.


Chicago was named the US candidate city on Saturday, defeating
co-finalist Los Angeles, while the Azerbaijani capital Baku,
flush with oil revenues, announced its intentions last week.


The 2008 Olympics are in Beijing, and the 2012 Games are in
London.

