

An Indian anti-terror court has delayed sentencing 100 people
convicted for their roles in 1993 bombings that left 257 people
dead in the financial hub of Mumbai, lawyers said Tuesday.


The court delivered verdicts last December on 123 people accused
in the Mumbai bombings, convicting 100, after a decade of trials
and had been scheduled to announce sentences on April 19.


"Judge P.D. Kode has decided to announce the sentencing on May
9," chief prosecutor Ujjwal Nikam told AFP, adding: "The court
needs to look into some related cases."


The special Terrorist and Disruptive Activities court was set up
in 1987 to try terrorism-related cases under a law of the same
name. The law lapsed in 1995 but cases initiated under it
continue to hold legal validity.


One of the most high-profile convicts is Bollywood superstar
Sanjay Dutt, who is out on bail.


The 47-year-old Dutt was found guilty last November of illegal
weapons possession but cleared of a more serious charge of
conspiracy in the deadly bombings that included an attack on the
city's stock exchange.


The burly actor, who was freed on bail in 1995 after serving 18
months in jail, has insisted he was armed only to protect his
family.


The "Black Friday" attacks were allegedly organised by Mumbai's
Muslim-dominated underworld in revenge for deadly Hindu-Muslim
religious clashes a few months earlier.


The alleged masterminds of the blasts, Dawood Ibrahim and Tiger
Memon, are on the run. Indian investigators say they were aided
by Pakistan's intelligence service, but Islamabad has denied any
link.

