

US Defence Secretary Robert Gates on Tuesday was to meet Jordan's
King Abdullah II on a tour aimed at rallying support for Iraq's
government and countering Iran's growing influence in the Middle
East.


The Israeli-Palestinian peace process was also to figure high on
the agenda, a senior Defence Department official said on
condition of anonymity ahead of the meeting.


While Jordan only has a small military hospital in neighbouring
Iraq, it helps train Iraqi police, air force personnel and air
traffic controllers at schools in the kingdom.


King Abdullah said in an interview with AFP that Israel must end
its occupation of Arab land if it wants to "co-exist" with the
world's Muslims.


He also warned against a hasty US withdrawal from Iraq without
setting a timetable "and without preparing the necessary
conditions that would ensure a strong central government able to
run the affairs of the state."


The foreign ministers of Jordan and Israel met in Amman on Sunday
for talks on ways to push forward the Israeli-Palestinian peace
process.


They also discussed ways to restart Israeli-Palestinians peace
talks, following a meeting earlier the same day in Jerusalem
between Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert and Palestinian
president Mahmud Abbas.


Gates, who held talks with Jordan's armed forces chief, General
Khalid al- Sarayreh, is expected to travel on to Egypt and
Israel, reinforcing US support for its allies in the region.


Washington wants its Arab allies Jordan and Egypt to show more
public support for the government of Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri
al-Maliki.


The United States is also seeking greater Arab public opposition
to Iran's controversial nuclear programme and to Iranian support
for the Hezbollah militia in Lebanon.


Washington has accused Iran of fomenting sectarian violence in
Iraq and supporting anti-US insurgents in the country.

