

The leader of a Sunni insurgent group in Iraq has urged other Al-
Qaeda affiliated organisations to put aside their differences
following reports of tensions between factions fighting US forces
and Shiite militia.


"The friendship between us is deep...(but) Satan has put a
division between us," the head of the Islamic State in Iraq, Abu
Omar al-Baghdadi, said in a website commentary posted on an
Islamic website on Monday.


He added that it was wrong to kill any other Muslim unless they
were apostates.


The Islamic Army in Iraq, another Sunni militant group, earlier
this month urged Osama bin Laden to rein in the Al-Qaeda in Iraq
group which it says killed more than 30 insurgents from other
organisations.


The Islamic Army in a long website commentary condemned the
activities of the Iraqi branch of Al-Qaeda, which controls the
Islamic State in Iraq.


"We call on the leaders of Al-Qaeda, especially Sheikh Osama bin
Laden, may God protect him... to assume their responsibilities
towards the activities of the Al-Qaeda Organisation in
Mesopotamia," said the commentary.


The Islamic Army, formed by members of the former Baathist ruling
regime of executed president Saddam Hussein, made a highly
conditional offer in October 2006 to negotiate with the US
military, while ruling out any contact with the US-backed Iraqi
authorities.


The movement demanded a pledge from Washington that it would
withdraw its troops, free Iraqi and Arab detainees and "recognise
the Iraqi resistance as the sole legitimate representative of the
Iraqi people."

