

Iran has arrested the head of its teachers' union in the wake of
protests last month demanding higher salaries, the Etemad Melli
daily reported on Tuesday.


The arrest of Ali Akbar Baghani comes amid the continued
detention of several other teachers after their colleagues
protested outside the Iranian parliament three times in March.


"Three plainclothes agents appeared on Monday morning at the
institution where Mr Baghani teaches and one of the agents
arrested him in his classroom," the newspaper reported.


"As well as Mr. Baghani, six other members of the union's board
are currently imprisoned," the paper added.


However the reformist daily quoted the deputy head of Tehran's
police force, Hossein Sadjedi-Nia, as saying that his forces were
not involved in the arrest.


On Saturday the union's deputy leader and two directors of an
education weekly were detained and transferred to Tehran's Evin
prison over the March demonstrations, the student news agency
ISNA said.


The rights group of Nobel Peace Prize winner Shirin Ebadi said on
Sunday that more than a dozen teachers had been arrested recently
in Tehran as well as the Western city of Hamedan.


Thousands of teachers gathered in front of the Iranian parliament
in three unusual protests in March, demanding higher salaries and
accusing President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of not keeping his
election promises to spread wealth.


Teachers in Iran earn between 200 and 300 dollars a month, which
is not enough to make ends meet, especially in the capital,
forcing many to take second jobs in the private sector or to work
as taxi drivers.

