

Outspoken Zimbabwean Roman Catholic Archbishop Pius Ncube said in
an interview published Tuesday that he understood that he may
lose his life over his continued critical stance against
President Robert Mugabe's regime.


In an interview with The Daily Telegraph while on a visit to
London, Ncube also criticised the leaders of Zimbabwe's
neighbours for not doing more to avert the ongoing crisis there.


"The Church has a prophetic role to speak the truth when no one
else dares to," the Archbishop of Bulaweyo told the paper.


"I accept that it may mean that I lose my life."


Ncube described Mugabe as "evil" and said he was "mad for power,
and he will cling to it even if it means destroying the economy
and destroying Zimbabwe."


He went on to criticise the leaders of neighbouring countries for
"letting their people down."


"They (neighbouring leaders) have cared too much for themselves,
and too little for their people. Their record, since the end of
colonial rule, is enough to make you weep."


Ncube also told the Telegraph that Zimbabwe did not just need a
change of ruler, but a strengthening of its democratic
institutions: "I believe it is not enough to replace one leader
with another."


"We need true transformation in Zimbabwe -- that means
transformation of democratic institutions and transformation of
our attitudes to governance. Zimbabweans have no first hand
experience of true democracy."


Long-standing political tensions in Zimbabwe deteriorated last
month when state security agents assaulted the leader of the main
opposition and scores of supporters and shot dead an activist as
they broke up an anti-government rally.


Zimbabwe's economy has also been on a downturn over the past
seven years characterised by world-record inflation along with
four in every five persons out of work and perennial shortages of
commodities like sugar and cooking oil.

