

Australian share prices closed down 0.18 percent Tuesday as
investors took profits in blue-chip stocks after earlier gains
sent the market into record territory, dealers said.


The SP/ASX 200 closed down 11.2 points at 6,186.5, off Monday's
record close of 6,197.7 after posting a new intra-day record of
6,237.7.


The broader All Ordinaries index retreated 14.7 points to close
at 6,168.9, after setting a fresh intra-day high of 6,220.


A total of 1.93 billion shares worth 6.32 billion dollars (5.26
billion US) were traded, with 725 stocks down, 566 up and 326
unchanged.


Bell Potter Securities private client advisor Stuart Smith said
after a solid start to trading on positive offshore leads the
market gave way to profit-taking which was to be expected with
prices at record levels.


Smith said price volatility can be expected as the market
continues to hover at record levels on wide buying although
prices are supported by underlying fundamentals including a
robust domestic economy.


"We're only down a few points - there is no damage at all - just
a bit of profit taking at the top which is a healthy sign," he
said.


Smith said bank stocks continued to garner support.


"Our analysts are saying remain overweight (in banks) as the key
drivers are positive -- the economy is strong, credit growth is
still strong and credit quality remains sound," he said.


CMC Markets chief analyst David Land said the banking and finance
sectors were the only areas to avoid the sell-off following
recent highs.


"When we get at these very high levels, I think you get the
market acting more quickly to take profits," he said.


"Simply because of the very strong run up that we've had, it
makes people act a little bit more tentatively.


"A lot of people are keen to maybe lighten the load of some
positions they have at these levels."


Among the major banks, Commonwealth Bank shares rose 0.46 to
close at a record 52.65, ANZ gained 0.28 to a record 31.03,
Westpac was up 0.50 at an all-time high of 27.03 but National
Australia Bank fell 0.21 to 43.18.


Telecoms giant Telstra slipped 0.01 to 4.77, while Optus-owner
SingTel gained 0.05 to 2.83.


In resources, BHP Billiton shares retreated 0.33 to close at
30.06 while Rio Tinto was down 0.44 at 83.41.


Qantas was steady at 5.38 and Virgin Blue slipped 0.01 to 2.71.

