

Prime Minister John Howard said Tuesday that strict gun controls
introduced after one of the world's worst massacres by a lone
gunman helped Australia avoid a US-style "gun culture".


Howard, who ordered the controls after gunman Martin Bryant
killed 35 people in a rampage through Port Arthur in Tasmania in
1996, was reacting to Monday's shooting spree at the US Virginia
Tech University which left 33 people dead.


"We had a terrible incident at Port Arthur. But it is the case
that 11 years ago we took action to limit the availability of
guns and we showed a national resolve that the gun culture that
is such a negative in the United States would never become a
negative in our country," he said.


Howard told reporters, however, that "you can never guarantee
these things won't happen again in our country."


He extended his sympathies to the families of those killed and
wounded in the shooting in the United States, saying universities
and schools should be "a sanctuary of learning, friendship and
social interchange".


After the Port Arthur massacre on April 28, 1996, the
introduction of stricter gun laws saw some 500,000 weapons,
including semi-automatics, handed over to officials to be
destroyed.


While the latest US shooting has again revived debate about what
role easy access to guns plays in crime, Howard indicated on the
10th anniversary of the Port Arthur massacre last year that he
had no doubts.


"Gun-related deaths, both murders and otherwise, have fallen
sharply since 1996," he said. "I think that's got something to do
with the gun laws."

