

Canadian auto-parts maker Magna International is in "advanced"
talks to buy Chrysler, the loss-making US unit of German-US car
giant DaimlerChrysler, the daily Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung
reported on Tuesday.


Magna was teaming up with Canadian investment group Onex for a
joint bid for the majority stake in Chrysler, while Daimler would
hold on to a smaller stake in the troubled brand, the newspaper
said, quoting industry sources.


Magna chief Frank Stronach was sending a team of top officials,
headed by co- head Siegfried Wolf, to negotiate with
DaimlerChrysler officials this week, the newspaper said.


DaimlerChrysler board member Ruediger Grube was in New York this
week to talk with other potential buyers, it added.


The newspaper said that DaimlerChrysler officials had refused to
comment on the information.


Magna was willing to pay a similar amount for Chrysler as US
billionaire Kirk Kerkorian, whose investment vehicle Tracinda has
placed an offer of 4.5 billion dollars (3.3 billion euros) on the
table, the newspaper added.


Among the other possible buyers are private equity firms
Blackstone, Centerbridge Partners and Cerberus.


Magna had said last week that it was considering launching a bid
for Chrysler, which is the Canadian firm's biggest customer.


Magna said in a statement that it "continues to review potential
alternatives regarding the future of the Chrysler Group."


"Magna has previously commented that, as DaimlerChrysler is one
of its largest customers, Magna is seeking a full understanding
of the situation regarding the future of the Chrysler Group, and
any constructive role Magna may play in a potential transaction."


But, the company added: "There is no assurance that any
transaction will result from Magna's current involvement."

