

Japanese share prices were mixed in morning trade on Tuesday with
the main Nikkei index up 0.24 percent after Wall Street's strong
performance overnight, dealers said.


They said that optimism was tempered by caution ahead of upcoming
company earning results in the United States and Japan.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
rose 41.48 points to 17,669.78 but the broader Nikkei-225 index
of all first-section shares slipped 1.19 points or 0.07 percent
to 1,724.41.


Decliners beat gainers 883 to 675, with 165 issues flat.


Volume rose to 893 million shares from 866 million on Monday
morning.


"Recent macroeconomic data showing signs of slowing growth have
dampened investor appetite for stocks," said Masatoshi Sato, a
strategist at Mizuho Investor Securities.


"Given such discouraging data, investors have shifted their
focus... to the upcoming earnings announcements," he added.


Starting next week, Japanese companies will be reporting their
earnings results for the fiscal year to March, with the market
keen to see what their corporate earnings projections will be for
the current fiscal year.


Marine transport stocks led the risers, with Mitsui OSK Lines
climbing 46 yen or 3.28 percent to 1,450 following a report that
the shipping company will likely post a record annual current
profit.


Export-oriented shares were generally higher, buoyed by the yen's
weakness against the dollar, with semiconductor-related stocks
especially in favor, dealers said.


Tokyo Electron was up 430 yen or 5.02 percent at 9,000 and
Advantest rose 180 or 3.25 percent to 5,720 while Elpida Memory
gained 120 or 2.44 percent to 5,030.


In the auto sector, Toyota Motor was up 60 yen or 0.83 percent at
7,280.


But Nissan Motor shed 19 or 1.55 percent to 1,208 after saying it
will likely need a year longer than expected to achieve its March
2009 annual global sales target of 4.2 million vehicles.

