

China on Tuesday brushed off a suggestion by Italian Prime
Minister Romano Prodi that Europe and Japan need to coordinate
their aid to Africa to counter China's growing stature on the
continent.


"We believe if other countries of the world want to collaborate
on helping Africa, this a good thing. No one side can exclude the
other," foreign ministry spokesman Liu Jianchao told a regular
news briefing.


He was responding to comments by Italian Prime Minister Romano
Prodi, who called on Europe and Japan earlier Tuesday to
coordinate aid to Africa in the face of China's increasingly
visible presence on the continent.


"If we look at numbers, Europe and Japan together present a great
deal more aid to Africa than China," said Prodi, the former head
of the European Commission. "But when I talk to African leaders,
they only talk about China."


During a visit to Tokyo, Prodi called on Europe and Japan to
"align in their communication and become closer" in regards to
Africa aid.


China has opened up its aid coffers for Africa in a courtship
that is raising its stature on the continent. Many observers view
Beijing's overtures as motivated mainly by China's desperate need
for oil and other resources to fuel its economy.


Liu said he was puzzled by Prodi's comments.


"When China engages in economic, trade and cultural cooperation,
it will not exclude any other side. We welcome any other
countries, especially developing countries, to give a hand to
Africa so that Africa can develop like other countries," he said.

