

Chinese share prices shrugged off early weakness and closed 0.43
percent higher Tuesday at another record on strong fund inflows
with property and metal stocks gaining ground, dealers said.


They said the market was boosted by continued capital inflows
despite some concerns that corrections would be needed after
consecutive sharp gains.


Turnover jumped to a record high of 176.11 billion yuan (22.78
billion US dollars) as about 90 companies rose by their daily
limits of 10 percent.


The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index, which covers A and
B-shares, closed up 15.43 points at a record 3,611.87.


The Shanghai A-share Index was up 15.76 points or 0.42 percent at
3,796.37 on turnover of 174.96 billion yuan and the Shenzhen
A-share Index was up 17.01 points or 1.67 percent at a record
1,036.99, on turnover of 98.77 billion yuan.


"Fresh funds continued actively building positions after the
market saw profit- taking in morning trade, and the bullish
sentiment here is unlikely to wane unless some major negative
news emerges," Zhang Yi, an analyst at Yibang Investment, said.


However, some analysts warned that the market could consolidate
in the near future.


"In the short term, the market could see some corrections after
rising so sharply in recent trading weeks, and it might be wise
to lock in gains for the moment," Cao Yan, an analyst at Soochow
Securities, said.


Property developers were buoyed by recent yuan strength, with
Shanghai Zhangjiang Hi-Tech Park Development rising by its 10
percent daily limit to 12.83 yuan.


Goldfield Industries Inc rose by its 10 percent daily limit to
19.93 yuan. Shanghai Lujiazui Finance Trade Zone Development was
also up 10 percent at 26.73.


Metal stocks were in demand after Nymex gold futures finished
near 695 US dollars an ounce Monday to mark their strongest
closing level since late February.


Jiangxi Copper was up 10 percent at 27.14 yuan.


Baotou Aluminum was up 10 percent at 19.16 yuan. Yunnan Copper
Industry was up 1.80 yuan or 8.11 percent at 24.0. Huadian Power
International Corp was up 10 percent at 7.59 yuan after
announcing first quarter output of 14 billion kilowatt-hours
(kwh), up 19.75 percent year-on-year.


Banks were hit hard by profit-taking with Shenzhen Development
Bank down 0.78 yuan or 3.29 percent at 22.95.


Shanghai Pudong Development Bank was down 0.86 yuan or 2.80
percent at 29.84. Bank of China was down 0.07 yuan or 1.20
percent at 5.75.


China Merchants Bank was down 0.25 yuan or 1.24 percent at 19.96
after it said its 2006 net profit rose 87.69 percent to 7.107
billion yuan under Chinese accounting standards.


Wuliangye Yibin was down 2.68 yuan or 6.97 percent at 35.75. It
said it expects first-quarter net profit to have risen about 30
percent year-on-year.


The Shanghai B-share Index was up 4.46 points or 2.29 percent to
199.24 on turnover of 1.15 billion US dollars and the Shenzhen
B-share Index was up 4.99 points or 0.90 percent at 559.90, a
fresh closing high, on turnover of 835.30 million Hong Kong
dollars (108.06 million US dollars).

