

Investor confidence in Germany rose to the highest level for 10
months in April as growth of the eurozone's biggest economy
continues to gather momentum, a new poll showed on Tuesday.


The ZEW economic research institute's economic expectations
index, based on a poll of 320 analysts and institutional
investors, rose by 10.7 points to plus 16.5 points in April, its
highest level since June 2006, ZEW said in a statement.


The increase also beat expectations: analysts had been pencilling
in a more modest rise to plus 10.0 points this month.


The increase marks the fifth consecutive monthly rise in the
barometer since the index hit a 13-year low of minus 28.5 points
in November.


"Financial market experts see increased growth momentum in
Germany in the coming six months," said ZEW President Wolfgang
Franz.


Franz attributed the favourable growth outlook to the improved
situation on the labour market, which is providing a boost to
household consumption.


"In addition, concerns about the global economic outlook are
falling. In the wake of the slowdown in the US, the world economy
will grow more moderately, but still robustly," Franz said.


The ZEW indicator represents the balance between positive and
negative expectations for the economy, the biggest in the
eurozone, over the next six months.


If most analysts and institutional investors polled believe the
economy will improve, the index shows a plus. If most are
expecting a deterioriation, the index shows a minus.


ZEW also polls analysts and insitutional investors about their
assessments of the current situation.


And the so-called "current situation index" showed a further
improvement, rising by 7.7 points to a record high of plus 76.9
points.

