

The Chinese city of Guangzhou is firmly on schedule to host the
2010 Asian Games with the Olympic Council of Asia giving it a
glowing report card Tuesday.


"When the Chinese set their mind to something, you know they are
going to do it well," OCA president Sheikh Ahmad Al-Fahd Al-Sabah
told AFP here.


"I have no concerns about logistics. They are on schedule, they
are well organised, there is close cooperation and coordination.
I don't have any worries at all."


Despite the positive comments, the southern metropolis has its
work cut out to match the Doha Games last year, which were
considered the best ever, and the highly anticipated Olympic
Games in Beijing next year.


Sheikh Ahmad believes the challenge will spur Guangzhou to pull
off a major success.


"I am very confident Guangzhou will do a very good job for two
reasons," he said.


"Firstly, they have to start where Qatar finished and secondly
they have Beijing in 2008 and they have to compete with that.


"Guangzhou is the third largest city in China and I know they
want to do something similar to Beijing and better than Doha."


With a slogan of "Thrilling Games, Harmonious Asia," Guangzhou is
spending more than four billion yuan (500 million US) in Games-
related investment on stadium construction and renovation.


It is also pumping 100 billion yuan into infrastructure projects,
expanding its metro line by 200 kilometres (125 miles) before
2010, renovating 12 bridges across the Pearl River and creating
new parks.


While the city currently has some 50 hotels this will be
increased to 300 in the next three years, Guangzhou officials
say.

