

Japanese share prices were hit by profit-taking Tuesday despite
Wall Street's strong performance overnight as investors turned
cautious ahead of upcoming company results, dealers said.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's benchmark Nikkei-225 index of leading
shares fell 100.85 points or 0.57 percent to 17,527.45, giving
back some of Monday's 1.52 percent gain.


The broader Nikkei-225 index of all first-section shares shed
9.49 points or 0.55 percent to 1,716.11.


Decliners beat gainers 1,249 to 381, with 99 issues flat.


Volume rose to 1.95 billion shares from 1.80 billion on Monday.


Many investors took to the sidelines ahead of the domestic
corporate results season which kicks off next week, with Wall
Street's gains Monday and the yen's continued weakness failing to
lift the market mood, dealers said.


"Recent macroeconomic data showing signs of slowing growth have
dampened investor appetite for stocks," said Masatoshi Sato, a
strategist at Mizuho Investor Securities.


"Given such discouraging data, investors have shifted their
focus... to the upcoming earnings announcements," he added.


Starting next week, Japanese companies will be reporting their
earnings results for the fiscal year to March, with the market
keen to see what their corporate earnings projections will be for
the current fiscal year.


Recent gainers were among those which saw the biggest falls, with
pharmaceuticals and utilities especially hard hit by profit
taking.


Daiichi Sankyo closed down 30 yen or 0.80 percent at 3,730 while
Tokyo Electric Power shed 20 or 0.49 percent to 4,100.


Nissan Motor fell 15 yen or 1.22 percent to 1,212 after saying it
will likely need a year longer than expected to achieve its March
2009 annual global sales target of 4.2 million vehicles.


Toyota Motor was up 30 yen or 0.42 percent at 7,250 while Honda
Motor was flat at 4,050.


Chip stocks advanced sharply, with Tokyo Electron up 310 yen or
3.62 percent at 8,820 and Advantest 80 yen or 1.44 percent higher
at 5,620. Nikon rose 85 yen or 3.07 percent to 2,855.


Mitsui OSK Lines climbed 33 yen or 2.35 percent to 1,437
following a report that the shipping company will likely post a
record annual current profit.


On the foreign exchange market, the dollar fell to 119.59 yen in
Tokyo afternoon trade from 119.72 yen in New York late Tuesday.


The euro was at 1.3537 dollars after 1.3535 and 161.86 yen from
162.04.

