

Iran's top national security official Ali Larijani arrived in
Baghdad on Sunday on a previously unannounced three-day visit for
talks with Iraqi leaders, officials said.


The visit came as the two neighbours announced that Iran would
send its foreign minister to a conference of world and regional
powers later this week to find ways to help Iraq build peace and
overcome its current security crisis.


"The visit of Mr Larijani is in the framework of bilateral
relations. He will probably talk about security questions and the
international conference," Iranian foreign ministry spokesman
Mohammad Ali Hosseini said in Tehran.


An Iraqi government official confirmed Larijani's arrival, and
said he was in meetings with officials, without offering details.


Iran maintains close ties with many figures in Prime Minister
Nuri al-Maliki's Shiite-led government, despite the suspicions of
his embattled coalition's other main ally, the United States.


US commanders allege that Iranian agents fund, train and equip
many of the extremist factions involved in Iraq's insurgency and
sectarian war, including those which target Iraqi and American
forces.


Five Iranian officials have been in US custody in Iraq since
December, when they were seized in a raid in the northern city of
Arbil.


Washington says the men are operatives from the Iranian
Revolutionary Guards' covert Qods Force. Iran says they are
diplomats.


Maliki has tried to steer a difficult middle route between his
mismatched supporters, refusing to criticise his larger neighbour
while calling on all countries in the region to help cut off
support for Iraqi extremists.


A visit by Iraq's Deputy Prime Minister Barham Saleh to Tehran
later on Sunday was cancelled after Larijani decided to go to
Iraq himself, Iranian state media reported.

