

Six men, including a radical Muslim named Abu Izzadeen, were
charged in Britain on Sunday with inciting terrorism overseas and
fundraising, police said.


The men, aged between 21 and 35, were arrested in pre-dawn anti-
terror raids on Tuesday, and are due to appear before City of
Westminster Magistrates Court in London on Monday.


The six -- Izzadeen, 27-year-old Omar Zaheer, Shal Jalal Hussein,
24, 35-year- old Simon Keeler, Ibrahim Abdullah Hassan, 21, 28
-year-old Rajib Khan -- were all charged with terrorist
fundraising.


Izzadeen, Keeler, Hassan, Khan were also charged with inciting
others to commit acts of terrorism overseas.


In addition, Hassan faces the charge of possessing articles
suspected to be related to the commission, preparation, or
instigation of a terrorist attack.


The men were arrested at four addresses in east London, one in
Southall, west London, and one in Luton, a town north of the
capital, arrested by the Metropolitan Police Counter Terrorism
Command and local police officers.


The arrests were in relation to speeches made at a mosque two-
and-a-half years ago.


A well-known figure towards the extreme end of British Muslim
opinion, convert Izzadeen repeatedly disrupted a speech by Reid
in east London last September, calling him "an enemy of Islam"
and "a tyrant".


Izzadeen, a former electrician born in London to a Jamaican
family, is said to be a former spokesman for the radical Islamist
group Al-Ghurabaa.


Al-Ghurabaa is an offshoot of the now disbanded Al-Muhajiroun led
by radical cleric Omar Bakri Mohammed, both of which are now
banned in Britain.


He came to prominence for refusing to condemn the deadly July
2005 suicide bombings in London and has described Prime Minister
Tony Blair and US President George W. Bush as the "real
terrorists" for military action in Iraq and Afghanistan.

