

Eight suspected Muslim militants and a civilian were killed in
continuing separatist violence in revolt-hit Indian Kashmir, the
army and police said Sunday.


Four of the militants were killed early Sunday in a fierce
gunbattle with troops in the northern district of Kupwara, army
spokesman A.K. Mathur told AFP.


He said the fighting erupted when troops surrounded a forested
hide-out and asked the militants to surrender.


"They instead opened fire, which was returned killing four of
them (militants)," he said, adding the search operation was
continuing in the area which borders Pakistan-administered
Kashmir.


Four more rebels were killed in two separate gunbattles with
troops in the southern districts of Doda and Rajouri late
Saturday and early Sunday, a police statement said.


Police also said suspected militants shot dead a civilian in the
southern district of Kulgam early Sunday.


"We are ascertaining why he was targetted," police officer Fayaz
Ahmed said. No rebel group has claimed responsibility.


Kashmir is split between India and Pakistan, which have fought
two of their three wars over the region since independence from
Britain in 1947.


The scenic Himalayan region is in the grip of a nearly 18-year
insurgency against Indian rule that has left more than 42,000
people dead by official count. Rights groups put the toll at
70,000.


Police are investigating five cases that came to light in early
2007 in which civilians were killed in custody and falsely
labelled "Islamic militants."


More than a dozen policemen have been charged with murder in
three of the cases so far.

