

Several hundred people rallied outside the White House on Sunday
to urge President George W. Bush to increase support for the
immediate deployment of UN peacekeepers in Darfur.


Actress-activist Mia Farrow addressed the demonstrators, many of
whom were dressed in "Save Darfur" T-shirts and UN peacekeepers'
blue berets, as other rallies took place around the world to mark
a global day of action for the troubled Sudanese region.


"I have been into the Darfur region four times. The first time
was in 2004 and I came out a witness, and this new role as a
witness has completely changed my life," she said in the protest
marking the conflict's fourth anniversary.


"From camps and villages across Darfur, pleas for protection
reverberate in my soul. Peace and protection now is the only
appropriate response. It is a moral imperative," Farrow said.


"President Bush has asked for more time. Tell it to the mother
whose children are on fire."


Darfur rallies took place in more than 35 capitals around the
world, according to organizers.


The conflict raging in Darfur has cost 200,000 lives and forced
two million people from their homes, according to the United
Nations, though Khartoum contests those estimates, saying 9,000
people have died.


Farrow, wearing a brown T-shirt which read "Genocide Olympics,"
called for the upcoming 2008 Olympics in Beijing to be used as a
lever to pressure China to support sanctions on the Sudanese
government and peacekeepers for Darfur.


"China is underwriting the genocide in Darfur. There is one thing
that China holds more dear than its unfettered access to Sudanese
oil and that is its staging of the 2008 Beijing Olympics," she
told the rally.


"Genocide Olympics is the phrase fast becoming viral in advocacy
groups across the world because there is one nightmare China
cannot be allowed to sweep under the rug and that nightmare, of
course, is Darfur. The Games cannot be allowed to go on as
usual."

