

The presidential candidate of Turkey's Islamist-rooted government
said Sunday he would not withdraw from the race despite the
army's threat of action to protect the secular regime.


"It is out of the question for me to withdraw my candidacy in any
way," Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul told reporters here in
televised remarks.


He said his bid for the presidency was "not a decision that was
taken in a night" but the result of lengthy negotiations.


Gul, 56, is the sole candidate in presidential elections which
many fear will increase the influence of Islam in Turkey and
erode the strict separation of state and religion.


Fielded by the ruling Justice and Development Party (AKP), he
narrowly missed being elected in a first round of voting in
parliament on Friday, which was boycotted by the opposition who
object to his Islamist past.


In a strong statement issued hours after the vote, the army,
which has carried out three coups in the past, said it was
determined to take action to protect Turkey's secular regime.


The government hit back on Saturday, calling the army to order
and rejecting any undemocratic moves to resolve the country's
problems.


The main opposition Republican People's Party has asked the
Constitutional Court to cancel Friday's vote, arguing that
parliament did not have the necessary quorum.


If the court agrees, general elections set for November 4 could
be brought forward. If not, Gul could be president in a third
round vote on May 9, when he needs only an absolute majority in
the AKP-dominated parliament.


"We all need to wait for the decision of the Constitutional
Court," Gul said. "The court will undoubtedly make the best
evaluation and reach the right decision."


The prospect of Gul as head of state has alarmed secularists who
suspect the AKP of having a secret Islamist agenda, brushing
aside the party's argument that it has disawoved its Islamist
past and is committed to secular principles.

