

Israel's Yad Vashem Holocaust memorial urged the world to act
over atrocities in Darfur on Sunday, as activists marked Global
Day for Darfur on the fourth anniversary of the conflict in
Sudan.


"It is not sufficient for the international community to issue
condemnations, and statements via the United Nations, while this
Khartoum-sponsored genocide is taking place," the memorial said
in a letter addressed to UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon.


"Concrete steps must be taken; we must do everything to ensure
that the Security Council will decide to send troops to Darfur
who will be able to restore security," said the letter.


"Every day that passes adds thousands of names to the list of the
dead," it said.


"As the heads of the Jewish people's central organisation for
commemorating the Holocaust -- a genocide that took place while
the world was silent -- we feel a special obligation... to raise
alarm on Darfur," said the letter.


"In order to uphold the values and commitments spelled out in the
UN Charter, we urge you to use the full moral authority of your
office to do everything possible to put an end to the horrific
crimes taking place in Darfur."


The Global Day for Darfur was to be marked around the world on
Sunday by activists overturning 10,000 hourglasses filled with
fake blood in an event organised by a coalition including Amnesty
International and Human Rights Watch.


The conflict in the western region of Sudan has led to 200,000
deaths and two million people being displaced, according to the
United Nations, although some sources put the toll much higher.


Sudan contests the figures, saying that only 9,000 have died.

