

Arsene Wenger has revealed he wants to appoint an Englishman as
Arsenal's director of football.


Wenger is hunting a replacement for former Gunners vice-chairman
David Dein, who left the club earlier this month after falling
out with his fellow directors over a potential takeover from
American tycoon Stan Kroenke.


Dein played a key role in helping Wenger with transfers and the
club's board have told the French coach he can choose the man he
wants to work with.


Wenger had been linked with Tottenham's sporting director Damien
Comolli, who was previously an Arsenal scout, and Henri
Biancheri, who worked with Wenger at Monaco.


But the Arsenal manager believes it is vital to employ someone
who has been brought up in English football.


"I will be appointing a Director of Football to deal with a lot
of the work that David did at the club," he told Arsenal's
programme for the match against Fulham.


"At the moment I don't have anyone in mind for the position,
there is no hurry to bring somebody in, but I have to say I am
thinking about employing someone from this country, so that they
know the rules and regulations of the Premiership and English
football.


"They are my first thoughts, but I am still open minded to it and
nothing has been decided yet.


"Whoever takes the job though will have to be a good
communicator, know English football well, and be experienced in
negotiating.


"In the job he will be doing every decision will be vital and a
bad decision could cost the club millions, so we have to get the
appointment right."

