

Manager Gordon Strachan won't be tempted to quit Celtic for a
move to the English Premiership, the Scottish champions' chief
executive Peter Lawwall claimed on Sunday.


The former Southampton boss has been linked with Manchester City
and Newcastle in a season where he led Celtic into the last 16 of
the Champions League and a second successive title.


And the absence of a long-term contract has added fuel to the
fire.


But Lawwell said: "We have got him on a 12-month rolling contract
and we have full protection, as does Gordon. It's better than a
fixed term.


"We have had no indication that Gordon wants to leave. He says
he's perfectly happy and we're happy with him.


"I have never had to ask Gordon about his future - I have never
been in any doubt."


Lawwell praised Strachan for winning silverware while cutting the
wage bill.


The chief executive revealed Celtic now have three categories of
salaries - the top for star signings, a middle one for "scouted"
players such as goalkeeper Artur Boruc and a lower one for
homegrown players.


He said: "We had the sixth highest wage bill in the UK when
Gordon started and were 25-30 percent ahead of Rangers.


"We had to bring our expenditure back and Gordon has been
fantastic in his understanding.


"We had to get away from the really big salaries. The way we've
structured it is that we will always have four or five really big
players."


Meanwhile, Lawwell has revealed the club hope to extend the
capacity of Celtic Park beyond 60,000 - but not in the near
future.


He said: "The only place we might expand is in the south stand
and it's a big bill.


"We'll do it at some point but there's maybe more demand for the
money to be spent elsewhere at the moment.


"You could put another seven or eight thousand on the capacity.
One day we'd like to fill the biggest stadium possible."

