

Reigning Olympic and world judo champion Keiji Suzuki had his
revenge against younger light-heavyweight rival Satoshi Ishii
with a 3-0 decision to win back Japan's open-weight national
championship here on Sunday.


The 26-year-old who was narrowly outpointed by Ishii in last
year's final, failed to score any points with his favourite leg
techniques but remained the aggressor with groundwork attempts as
well to win his third title.


Ishii, who became the youngest national open-weight champion last
year at the age of 19, disrupted a comeback bid by former Olympic
champion and three-time world gold medalist Kosei Inoue with a
2-1 decision in the quarter-finals.


It was another setback for Inoue, 28, who triumphed in the over-
100kg heavyweight category at the prestigious Paris tournament
last February on his return to international competition from an
injury-plagued layoff following his early exit from the 2004
Athens Olympics.


Inoue, the 2000 Olympic under-100kg light-heavyweight champion,
who has stepped up to heavyweight, also bowed out in the quarter-
finals at the national championships three weeks ago.


Suzuki won the open-weight title at the 2003 world championships,
the over-100kg gold in Athens and the under-100 title at the 2005
worlds.


After Sunday's competition, Suzuki was selected to represent
Japan in the light- heavyweight category at the 2007 world
championships in Rio de Janeiro in September, a springboard for
the 2008 Beijing Olympics.


Inoue was picked for either the open or heavyweight with
understudies 2003 world heavyweight champion Yasuyuki Muneta and
Yohei Takai.

