

The trial of five Bulgarian nurses and a Palestinian doctor
accused of slandering two Libyan police officers by saying they
were tortured was adjourned on Sunday until May 6.


The final speeches for the defence will be heard then, and this
will be followed by a verdict.


Sunday's hearing was attended by the doctor, Ashraf Ahmad Juma,
but not by the nurses. The six medics are currently on death row
after being convicted of injecting Libyan children with the HIV-
tainted blood at a hospital in Benghazi.


The defence team asked for an adjournment on Sunday so they could
examine documents presented in evidence by lawyers for the
police.


The five nurses -- Kristiana Valcheva, Nassia Nenova, Valia
Cherveniachka, Valentina Siropoulo and Snejana Dimitrova -- and
Juma were condemned to death in May 2004, in a verdict that was
upheld last December.


They had been convicted of deliberately injecting more than 400
Libyan children with HIV, which can cause AIDS.


The accused said their "confessions" in the HIV trial were forced
from them under torture, including beatings, electric shocks and
being threatened with dogs.


If convicted of slandering the police, they face a maximum
penalty of three years in prison. The six have already been in
custody for eight years.


When the slander proceedings began on February 25, the defendants
repeated the allegation that their original confessions had been
extracted under torture.


The medics, largely viewed as scapegoats by the international
community, maintain their innocence based on testimony by foreign
health experts who said the AIDS epidemic in Libya's second city
of Benghazi was sparked by poor hygiene.

