

Worldwide terror attacks increased 29 percent in 2006, mostly
because of surging attacks on civilians in Iraq and Afghanistan,
according to a US report to be released Monday.


McClatchy newspapers reported Sunday that the State Department's
annual terror report would show that there were 14,338 attacks
last year, up from 11,111 the year before, numbers which do not
include attacks on US troops.


The attacks have become deadlier, with 5,800 resulting in at
least one fatality, also up from 2005.


A staggering 45 percent of the attacks were in Iraq.


That number could be politically explosive for the US
administration, which is locked a stalemate with Congress over
funding for the war in Iraq which was largely justified as a way
to stop terrorism.


Several officials involved with the report contemplated playing
down its findings, the US newspaper chain said, but the report is
to be released by the congressionally mandated deadline of
Monday.


"We're proceeding in normal fashion with the final review of this
and expect it to be released early next week," State Department
deputy spokesman Tom Casey said last week, according to the
newspaper chain.


The report, based on information from the 16 US intelligence
agencies grouped under the National Counterterrorism Center, was
mandated by Congress.


Once the statistics were compiled and approved, US State
Department Secretary Condoleezza Rice met with her staff for an
additional round of review, led by Deputy Secretary of State John
Negroponte, formerly the nation's intelligence czar, to avoid the
fumbling that marred the report's release in recent years,
according to officials.


The US intelligence agencies, including the CIA and military
branch agencies, will prepare a separate report on terrorist
"safe havens," as debate simmers as to whether Iraq has become
just such a haven after the US invasion.

