

Hundreds of disgruntled Egyptian Bedouin ended a sit-in near the
border with Israel Sunday following a deal with the authorities,
a senior official said.


"They have ended their sit-in," North Sinai governor Ahmed Abdel
Hamid told reporters in the provincial capital of El Arish.


"The Bedouin have taken down the tents that they had erected at
the border and started to leave the site."


Simmering tensions between Egyptian security forces and the Sinai
peninsula's Bedouin population escalated last week after two men
were shot by police at a checkpoint. One officer was wounded in
four days of ensuing clashes.


Bedouin fearing reprisals had converged on the Kerem Shalom
crossing point -- which lies where the borders of Egypt, Israel
and the Gaza Strip meet -- and tried to clamber over barbed wire
to seek refuge in the Jewish state.


Bedouin have long complained of discriminatory policies and
mistreatment by the authorities.


A spate of bombings hit popular Sinai holiday resorts in October
2004, July 2005 and April 2006, killing more than 100 Egyptians
and foreign tourists.


Egyptian security forces responded with massive sweeps of the
peninsula and arrested thousands of suspects among the Bedouin
population. Many of them have yet to be released.


Abdel Hamid promised in a meeting with tribal leaders to tackle
their grievances and review the cases of Bedouin still detained
after the Sinai bombings.


He also undertook to release the brother of one of the two men
killed in the checkpoint shooting.


It was the second attempt to broker an end to the protests. On
Saturday, the Bedouin agreed with the government to a three-day
truce and retreated to 150 metres (yards) away from the border.
But they threatened to return if their demands for better jobs
and welfare were not met.

