

Scores of thousands rallied here Sunday in defence of Turkey's
secular system and against the military's threat of intervention
amid a political crisis over presidential elections.


"Turkey is secular and will stay that way," chanted the
protestors, who carried Turkish flags and portraits of the
founder of modern Turkey, Mustafa  Kemal Ataturk.


"We want neither Sharia, nor a coup, but a fully democratic
Turkey," they said.


The crowd also called for the resignation of Prime Minister Recep
Tayyip Erdogan's Islamist-rooted government which many accuse of
raising tensions over presidential elections.


Neither officials nor organizers have yet given a number for
participants, but the the organizing comittee says the rally has
attracted people from all over the country and abroad.


Police, backed by armoured vehicles and helicopters, beefed up
security for the gathering and blocked several roads leading to
the venue, Istanbul's sprawling Caglayan square.


The Istanbul rally, supported by some 600 non-governmental
organizations, follows a similar demonstration in Ankara on April
14 which drew up to 1.5 million people, according to some
estimates.


The rally was expected to end at 1300 GMT.


Tensions rose in Turkey after parliament held a first round of
voting Friday in which the sole candidate is Foreign Minister
Abdullah Gul, a former Islamist fielded by the ruling Justice and
Development Party (AKP).


The army responded with a threat to act to defend the secular
system.


The government hit back on Saturday, calling the army to order
and rejecting any undemocratic moves to resolve the country's
problems.


The Turkish armed forces have carried out three coups since 1960
and forced the resignation of the country's first Islamist prime
minister in 1997.

