

Congress may consider approving just two months' funding for US
troops in Iraq rather than 12, a senior lawmaker said, when asked
about a presidential veto of a timetable for withdrawing American
forces there.


"I'd like to see two months. I'd like to look at this again in
two months," said US Representative John Murtha, a retired Marine
colonel. "Fund it for two months instead of a year, and then look
at it again."


Congress and the White House at loggerheads over a funding bill
that conditions war funding on a time line for US withdrawal,
legislation that US President George W. Bush says he will veto.


"If he vetoes this bill, he's cut off the money," said Murtha, a
veteran lawmaker who chairs a powerful committee in the House of
Representatives with authority over military spending.


"Obviously, we're going to pass another bill," Murtha, added, but
"it's going to have some stringent requirements."


His remarks came just days after Democrats in the House and
Senate approved compromise legislation providing emergency funds
for US military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan -- but with
the proviso that troops begin to pull out of Iraq in October.


The bill passed 218-208 in the House of Representatives on
Wednesday and 51-46 in the Senate on Thursday and has a non-
binding target of completing the troop pullout by March 31, 2008.


Bush has pledged to veto the legislation when it reached his desk
this week, and has called on lawmakers to quickly present him
with a new bill that does not contain a time line.


The showdown between Bush and Congress comes amid growing public
disapproval of the four-year-old war and the president's strategy
to deploy additional troops to Iraq to quell violence there
bordering on civil war.


Democrats admit they do not have the two-thirds majority to
override Bush's veto.

