

North Korea has moved to withdraw its previously frozen funds
from a Macau bank, which would allow progress in nuclear
disarmament by the communist state, a report said Sunday.


Seoul's Yonhap news agency, quoting an unnamed Banco Delta Asia
(BDA) official, said Pyongyang last week asked Macau authorities
to help transfer the money, worth some 25 million dollars, from
the Macau bank.


Yonhap said the BDA official expected the funds to be remitted
online to North Korea with Singapore, Vietnam and Mongolia
possibly involved.


"On April 27, North Korea asked for help from the Macau financial
authorities with regards to the money transfer. The financial
authorities have ordered BDA to prepare for the money transfer,"
the official said.


"It is highly likely that the transfer will be made very soon."


Yonhap said the funds were held under 52 accounts in eight
currencies -- including US and Hong Kong dollars, Japanese yen,
euros and Swiss francs.


The delayed transfer has hampered progress in six party talks --
involving the two Koreas, China, Japan, Russia and the United
States -- aimed at ending North Korea's nuclear ambitions.


Under a landmark February 13 agreement, North Korea should have
shut down its Yongbyon nuclear reactor in the presence of UN
inspectors as the first step in scrapping its nuclear programmes
by April 14.


But the deadline slipped by due to an unresolved dispute over the
funds frozen at a Macau bank since 2005 at US instigation over
allegations of money laundering and counterfeiting.


Pyongyang has refused to act until it gets the money back.


South Korea's spy agency, citing activity in building new
accommodation facilities in Yongbyon, said Thursday North Korea
may be preparing to invite UN atomic inspectors back, as a
prelude to shutting it down.

