

The European Union's development and humanitarian aid
commissioner said on Sunday that he has proposed joint talks with
Damascus and Baghdad to discuss the plight of Iraqi refugees in
Syria.


Louis Michel told reporters after meeting in Damascus with
President Bashar al- Assad that they had discussed "humanitarian
aid for Iraqi refugees" in Syria, whom he numbered at between 1.2
million and 1.5 million.


"We spoke about the economic, social and even political effects
that this massive influx of refugees could have on the internal
situation" in Syria, Michel said.


He had "proposed meetings at a technical level between the Syrian
and Iraqi authorities and the European Commission" so that Europe
"can bring all of its expertise so as to reinforce the absorption
capacity" of countries hosting refugees from Iraq.


Michel said the EU had "the ability to put to work the financial
means at its disposal" to help refugees, and added that he may
visit Iraq in July to prepare for the proposed talks.


Before leaving for his week-long tour to the region, launched in
Israel and the Palestinian territories, Michel called the Iraqi
humanitiarian issue one of Europe's main concerns.


"The massive displacement of population resulting from the
conflict needs to be addressed urgently," he said.


"Host communities, who are already dealing with large numbers of
Palestinian refugees, need to receive more support. Our
operational partners are already achieving a lot, but steps also
need to be taken at a political level."


Europe recently allocated 10.2 million euros (13.9 million
dollars) in relief aid for victims of the Iraq crisis.


After the two-day visit to Syria, Michel's regional tour will
take him next to Jordan, which also hosts hundreds of thousands
of refugees fleeing the carnage in neighbouring Iraq.

