

Malians are voting Sunday in the first round of presidential
elections.


Among the eight aspirants is incumbent President Amadou Toumani
Toure, a former coup leader who has led the country since 2002
and is widely tipped to win.


Here are some key facts about Mali:


- GEOGRAPHY: A landlocked state of the Sahel, Mali is 1,240,000
square kilometres (478,800 square miles) in area. It is bordered
by Algeria, Niger, Burkina Faso, Ivory Coast, Guinea, Senegal and
Mauritania.


- POPULATION: About 13.5 million people, 70 percent of whom live
in the countryside. Divided into 20 ethnic groups, including the
Bambara, Fulani, Marka, Senufo, Soninke, Tuareg, Songhai, Malinke
and Dogon.


- CAPITAL: Bamako


- LANGUAGES: French is the official language, though Bambara is
spoken by about 80 percent of the population.


- RELIGION: Muslim (90 percent), Christian (10 percent).


- HISTORY: Formerly a French colony, Mali gained independence on
June 20, 1960. The country was run by president Modibo Keita
until a coup d'etat in 1968 led by Moussa Traore.


After 23 years in power, Traore's regime was overthrown by an
armed insurrection in March 1991 in which several hundred people
died and thousands were wounded.


A Transitional Committee, headed by Lieutenant Colonel Amadou
Toumani Toure, ran the country from 1991 until elections in 1992
when Alpha Oumar Konare became the first democratically elected
president. He stepped down at the end of two five- year terms in
2002.


Toure then ran for elections as an independent and won in 2002.


A separatist rebellion led by Tuareg rebels in the 1990s ended
with a peace deal sealed in Algeria in July last year.


- POLITICAL INSTITUTIONS: A new constitution was adopted in 1992,
ushering in multi-party democracy and fixing presidential terms
to two five-year mandates. Next elections for 147 legislative
seats are due in July.


- ECONOMY and RESOURCES: Mali is implementing a series of
Western-backed economic reforms, but ranked number 175 out of 177
among the world's poorest nations by a recent UN index on human
development.


Mali is the third-largest gold producer in Africa, after South
Africa and Ghana. It also sits on iron ore, bauxite and phosphate
deposits.


The country is the largest producer of cotton in sub-Saharan
Africa.


- GNP: 380 dollars per capita in 2005 (World Bank).


- EXTERNAL DEBT: Mali is one of the 18 heavily indebted poor
countries to have benefitted from a 2005 debt cancellation by G8
countries.


- ARMED FORCES: 7,350 men in 2006 (IISS).

