

Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf left Sarajevo on Sunday for
Turkey where he is to hold crucial talks with his Afghan
counterpart Hamid Karzai expected to end mistrust between the two
countries, an official said.


"President Musharraf has left for Turkey for the talks with
Karazai," an official at Bosnia's presidency press office told
AFP.


Earlier Sunday Turkish officials had confirmed that the summit
would go ahead as planned despite a suicide bomb attack Saturday
targeting Pakistan's interior minister.


Some reports suggested Musharraf would return home because of the
attack in which killed 28 people and wounded Interior Minister
Aftab Sherpao at a political rally in the northwest of the
country.


Later Sunday Musharraf and Karzai are scheduled to attend a
dinner in Ankara hosted by Turkish President Ahmet Necdet Sezer,
followed by a formal round of bilateral talks on Monday.


The meeting is expected to ease friction and develop a joint
strategy on fighting the Taliban insurgency.


Mutual recriminations have clouded relations between Afghanistan
and Pakistan, both key US allies in the fight against terrorism.


Kabul accuses Islamabad of not doing enough to stop militants
crossing from its tribal areas into Afghanistan to abet the
Taliban insurgency which claimed 4,000 lives last year.


Islamabad says it has taken effective measures and accuses
Afghanistan of shifting the blame on to Pakistan for its own
failures in tackling the Taliban, a booming drug trade and
warlords impeding the government's writ in the country.


Musharraf has repeatedly stressed that Pakistan, once the main
backer of the Taliban regime, has deployed 90,000 troops in the
tribal areas and set up more than 1,000 military checkposts along
the 2,500-kilometre (1,600-mile) frontier.

