

Iran's top national security official Ali Larijani arrived in
Baghdad on Sunday on a previously unannounced three-day visit and
opened talks with senior officials, state television reported.


The three-day visit came as the neighbours announced that Iran
would send its foreign minister to a conference of world and
regional powers this week to find ways to help Iraq build peace
and overcome its current security crisis.


"The visit of Mr Larijani is in the framework of bilateral
relations. He will probably talk about security questions and the
international conference" in Egypt, Iran's foreign ministry
spokesman Mohammad Ali Hosseini said in Tehran.


An Iraqi government official confirmed Larijani's arrival and
Iraqi state television later announced that he met with Prime
Minister Nuri al-Maliki.


Iran maintains close ties with many figures in Maliki's Shiite-
led government, despite the suspicions of his embattled
coalition's other main ally, the United States.


US commanders allege that Iranian agents fund, train and equip
many of the extremist factions involved in Iraq's insurgency and
sectarian war, including those which target Iraqi and American
forces.


Five Iranian officials have been in US custody in Iraq since
December, when they were seized in a raid in the northern city of
Arbil.


Washington says the men are operatives from the Iranian
Revolutionary Guards' covert Qods Force. Iran insists they are
diplomats.


Maliki has tried to steer a difficult middle route between his
mismatched supporters, refusing to criticise his larger neighbour
while calling on all the countries in the region to help cut off
support for Iraqi extremists.


A visit by Iraq's Deputy Prime Minister Barham Saleh to Tehran
later on Sunday was cancelled after Larijani decided to go to
Iraq himself, Iranian state media reported.

