

Former Chelsea and AC Milan player Ruud Gullit has warned that
top footballers are facing burn-out and the threat of career-
ending injuries from the ever- increasing number of games in
European competition.


"In my day you played four or five games in the Champions League
and you were in the final," Gullit told feelfootball.com.


"Now you have to play so many more, then you have the national
team, the cups - too many games, and there needs to be a
solution," added the Dutchman who will see two of his former
clubs fighting for a place in the Champions League final.


For Chelsea, it will be their 60th game in four different
competitions this season and Gullit said it was time for a re-
think over the pressure put on the players.


"Less games is one solution, but all teams have now a squad of at
least 22, so why not take them all and have more players to
substitute.


"I think five players at least, but in the last 15 minutes you
could only change one player. If you changed more, everyone would
not be so tired."


Gullit argued, however, that more standardised calendars with
breaks through the year would not be the answer.


"We had that in Holland, although we don't have it now because of
the play-offs, but I don't think it is an advantage.


"It is just you play on Saturday, on Wednesday, every week. If
there is no UEFA Champions League match then there is a friendly
for the national team, and if there is no friendly match there is
a cup match - it is endless. There are so many games."


Gullit also gave his endorsement to Chelsea's Portuguese manager
Jose Mourinho carrying on next season.


"He has done really really well, and from the outside why mix it
up by changing the manager? They are still doing well.


"As for this season, and the UEFA Champions League, I would like
Chelsea and AC Milan to come through, because they are (my) old
clubs. But all four in the semi-finals are big clubs and for me
it is still 'may the best team win'."

