

One of Egypt's most prominent political bloggers has decided to
call it a day, citing harassment by security services as his main
reason to quit.


The Egypt-based blogger, known only as "Sandmonkey" -- a
derogatory term for people of Arab descent -- posted his last
entry on Saturday.


"One of the chief reasons (for quitting) is the fact that there
has been too much heat around me lately," he said.


Sandmonkey -- who describes himself as "extremely cynical,
snarky, pro-US, secular, libertarian" -- started posting two
years ago and has since been one of the main animators of Egypt's
vibrant blogosphere.


The blog offered stinging commentary on the Islamisation of
Egyptian society as well as virulent criticism of President Hosni
Mubarak's 26-year-old regime.


Sandmonkey regularly reported on the arrests of political
activists, police brutality and videos recently posted on the
Internet of alleged vote-rigging in a referendum for
constitutional amendments, which critics say curb civil
liberties.


"I no longer believe that my anonymity is kept, especially with
state security agents lurking around my street and asking
questions about me, since that day," he said, referring to anti-
referendum protests last month in which he participated and
several demonstrators were detained.


Egypt's bloggers came to public attention during the political
ferment surrounding elections in 2005 and have since been
targeted by the regime, drawing international condemnation.


In April, security forces detained blogger Abdel Moneim Mahmud
for criticising the government's human rights record.


In February, an Egyptian court sentenced blogger Abdel Karim
Suleiman to four years in prison for insulting religion and
defaming the president, a verdict condemned by rights groups as
an attack on free speech.

