

A separatist group fighting for the autonomy of the disputed
territory of Western Sahara said Sunday it was ready to open UN-
led talks with Morocco which has proposed a referendum on self-
rule.


"We are totally open to starting direct negotiations with the
kingdom of Morocco under the guidance of the UN secretary general
to allow the people of Western Sahara exercise their right to
determine their future," Mohamed Beisat of the Polisario Front
told a news conference.


The UN Security Council is next week likely to endorse a call for
direct talks between Rabat and the Polisario Front on their rival
plans for the disputed Western Sahara.


In a report released last week, UN chief Ban said the 15-member
Council should call on the parties to negotiate without
preconditions "with a view to achieving a just, lasting and
mutually acceptable political solution that will provide for the
self-determination of the people of Western Sahara."


"We agree with the appeal recently made by UN Secretary General
Ban Ki-moon and the UN Security Council," Beisat said Sunday.


Morocco earlier this month proposed an autonomy referendum in
Western Sahara that envisages giving Sahrawis "control over their
affairs through legislative, executive and judicial institutions"
under Moroccan sovereignty and calls for "negotiations for a
political solution acceptable to all parties."


But the Algerian-backed Polisario Front fighting Rabat's rule in
the territory submitted a rival plan that rejected the Moroccan
proposal and upheld "the right of the (local) people for self-
determination."


Morocco annexed the bleak northwest African territory after the
withdrawal of Spain and neighbor Mauritania in the 1970s,
settling it with around 300,000 Moroccans in 1975.


A war ensued with the Algerian-backed Polisario Front that ended
in 1991 with a UN-brokered cease-fire.

