

A top Cuban official would not confirm or deny that President
Fidel Castro might attend annual May Day events in Cuba, in what
would be the convalescing communist leader's first public
appearance in nine months.


"We all would like for his swift recovery to be even faster and
for him to be with us," Economy Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez told
international journalists Saturday.


"That recovery is coming along well, but it is going to take the
time that necessary medical steps take, and we are going to have
to respect whatever is necessary to do in that case."


Rodriguez added that "everyone knows Fidel is there taking part
in the country's key decisions ... but if it is possible, he'll
be there, and if it is not, he won't."


Expectations were fueled by comments by Bolivian President Evo
Morales, who said earlier Saturday that the world should prepare
for Castro's return to an active role in government this coming
May Day.


"I am certain that on May 1, comrade Fidel will resume his role
leading Cuba and Latin America," Morales said before departing to
a summit in Venezuela that brought together allies of Venezuelan
President Hugo Chavez.


He added, however, that he did not speak to Castro directly, but
was aware that Cubans were preparing "a big mobilization" during
the festivities.


At least six million people were expected to take part in May Day
celebrations in Havana.


Rodriguez said Cuba has avoided a collapse since Castro's
handover of power to his brother Raul Castro, and achieved
economic progress -- forecasting 10-percent growth this year --
without emulating the Chinese or Vietnamese economic models.


That despite the fact that interim leader Raul Castro, 75, is
said to be practical-minded and interested in the Asian
economies.


"The Chinese model is very different for a number of reasons.
China has great potential on many fronts that Cuba does not
have," Rodriguez said mentioning differences in population and
rural development.


"We do not have to copy any model, we can exchange experiences,
and we do not have to do the same thing," he said also referring
to the Vietnamese model.


Fidel Castro has not appeared in public since he underwent major
surgery nine months ago.


In July, he turned over power temporarily to his brother Raul to
recover from the surgery, but no concrete details have emerged as
to the progress of his recovery.


In 48 years since rising to power, Castro, now 80, only has
missed May Day events twice, due to travel outside the country in
1959 and 1963.


Speaking in Miami, Florida, Saturday, US President George W. Bush
blasted the Havana regime as "a cruel dictatorship that denies
all freedom in the name of a dark and discredited ideology."


"Some of you still have loved ones who live in Cuba, and wait for
the day when the light of liberty will shine upon them again."
Bush told graduates of Miami Dade College. "That day is nearing."


He did not elaborate.


International journalists have been arriving in Havana hoping to
cover Castro's return to the public eye after the surgery that
took him away from Cuba's helm for the first time in almost five
decades. Prior to his illness, most Cubans had never known
another leader.


Earlier this week a fitter, less gaunt Castro was seen in
official photos after he met with a top Chinese official, in a
sign he unofficially is back at work on some of his customary
official duties.


That fueled speculation among many Cubans that he might be on
hand at the May Day parade in Havana.


But this weekend Castro was missing a summit in Venezuela of his
closest allies and partners in the Bolivarian Alternative for the
Americas (ALBA), a socialist effort to rival US-led plans for
free trade in the Americas. Cuba is represented there by Vice
President Carlos Lage.

