

Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak's 43-year-old son and possible
successor Gamal married Khadiga el-Gammal Saturday in a religious
ceremony led by the country's top cleric, witnesses said.


The president's youngest son exchanged vows with Khadiga in front
of Sheikh Mohammed Sayyed Tantawi, who is the grand imam of Al-
Azhar and the country's most senior Sunni Muslim authority.


The family ceremony was followed by a cocktail reception at the
Air Force Club in Cairo, which was attended by close to 500
guests, including most of the current cabinet, former ministers
and only a handful of friends.


Guests said Khadiga -- the daughter of a wealthy businessman and
almost 20 years younger than her husband -- was wearing a dress
designed by Lebanese fashion supremo Elie Saab.


No alcohol was served at the reception and guests were not
allowed to take pictures.


A larger wedding party is scheduled for May 4 in the Sinai Red
Sea resort of Sharm el-Sheikh, to coincide with Hosni Mubark's
79th birthday.


The celebrations will also coincide with an international
conference on restoring security in Iraq to be held in Sharm el-
Sheikh and several foreign dignitaries are expected to attend the
party.


Gamal Mubarak's wedding was seen by some observers as yet another
sign that he was being groomed to succeed his father, as an
unmarried president would likely be frowned upon by public
opinion.


The young politician has repeatedly denied any ambition to take
over at the helm but he has gradually risen in the ranks of the
ruling party and is now seen as the main power behind his
father's throne.

