

Finance minister Gordon Brown, who Prime Minister Tony Blair is
reportedly preparing to endorse as his successor, conceded Sunday
that poor mid-term election results would reflect badly on him
and the Labour Party.


Polls suggest that Labour, which has been in power for 10 years
after an unprecedented three general election wins, is facing
heavy losses in elections Thursday to English local councils, the
Scottish Parliament and Welsh Assembly.


Asked if the results would be a verdict on just Blair or both of
them, Brown told ITV television: "Well, people will be voting on
all of us.


"But remember, these are local elections in England -- they're
elections actually not for a UK government but for the Scottish
Parliament, and they're also elections for the Welsh Assembly,"
Brown said.


"I think primarily people will be looking also at the powers that
the assembly and the parliament has, and what local government's
doing, and voting on these things as well."


Asked whether Blair had stayed in office too long and damaged him
in the process, he replied: "Yes well, that, you have, you have
to establish."


Brown also rejected arguments from David Cameron's main
opposition Conservative Party that he should call a snap general
election if he becomes prime minister.


"I didn't hear Mr Cameron or the Conservatives calling for a
general election the minute that John Major took over in 1990"
from Margaret Thatcher, he said, citing other historic examples.


"So, I think you've got to put this in its proper historical
perspective, that the British people elect a House of Commons,
and out of the House of Commons, the leadership is chosen."


The Sunday Times and other newspapers carried reports Sunday that
Blair, who has promised to step down this year, would endorse
Brown as his successor within weeks.

