

The Chicago Bulls swept reigning National Basketball Association
champions Miami out of the first round of the 2007 playoffs here
Sunday.


Chicago defeated the Heat 92-79 to complete a four-game sweep in
the best-of- seven Eastern Conference first-round series. They
became the first defending champion in 50 years to be swept in
the first round, after the 1957 Philadelphia Warriors.


The Heat, who defeated the Dallas Mavericks in last season's NBA
championship series, battled to get back to the playoffs this
year as superstars Shaquille O'Neal and Dwyane Wade missed
significant time with injuries.


O'Neal underwent knee surgery in November while Wade, the Most
Valuable Player of the 2006 finals, was sidelined by separated
shoulder later in February.


Wade scored 24 points Sunday, but the Heat couldn't counter the
energy of Chicago's rising stars Ben Gordon and Luol Deng and
veteran Ben Wallace.


Gordon scored 24 points, while Sudanese-born Briton Deng added 22
and 12 rebounds, while Wallace had 13 points and 11 rebounds.


In the second round, Chicago will face Eastern Conference top
seeds Detroit, who swept Orlando four games to none.


The last time Chicago reached the conference semi-finals was in
1998, when led by Michael Jordan they went on to win the last of
their six titles of 1990s.


Later Sunday, the New Jersey Nets tried to build on their 2-1
lead over Toronto when they hosted the Raptors in another Eastern
Conference clash.


The Raptors need a victory to regain home-court advantage from
the Nets, who took a 2-1 series lead with Friday's 102-89
victory.


Former Raptor Vince Carter erupted for 37 points after being
limited to a total of 36 in the first two games.

