

Police have arrested two members of a gang who robbed a jewellery
store in a mall, in a rare attack in the relatively safe Gulf
emirate of Dubai, the official WAM news agency reported on
Sunday.


WAM said Dubai police chief Dahi Khalfan told reporters the two
suspects were arrested in the affluent emirate, while an
extradition request had been filed for a third member of the gang
being held in an unnamed European country.


The diamonds stolen in the April 15 robbery, worth more than four
million dollars, were returned to their owners, WAM said, without
giving the nationality of the suspects.


The robbers used a car to ram through one of the main glass gates
of Wafi City Mall, then drove down the wide aisles of the
shopping centre to the jewellery store.


A second getaway car followed and helped the thieves escape after
they ransacked the store within just two minutes.


Khalfan said the members of the gang had travelled to the UAE
from different countries to avoid raising the suspicion of
security forces. Once in the country they were met by an
accomplice who provided logistical support, including housing and
visas.


He said that the accomplice who was arrested led the police to
two shops where the robbers bought a fake pistol and a female
traditional face-cover, which they used in the robbery.


Local media had quoted witnesses as saying the robbers fired
several gunshots, shattering the shop windows, after what
appeared to be the first attack of its kind in the oil-rich
United Arab Emirates in recent years.


Khalfan said the gang leader was caught while driving a hired car
in which he had hidden the stolen diamonds. It was his first
visit to the UAE, he added.

