

Teen thriller "Disturbia" was the top North American film for a
third weekend, snatching in 9.1 million dollars, according to
preliminary figures released Sunday.


The film about a troubled young man who comes to believe his
neighbor is a serial killer has taken in 52 million dollars since
its release three weeks ago.


Another teen thriller, "The Invisible," debuted in second place
with 7.6 million, according to box-office tracker Exhibitor
Relations. The film follows an adolescent ghost aiming to avenge
his murder.


"Next," the story of a Las Vegas magician who can glimpse a few
minutes into the future starring Nicolas Cage and Julianne Moore,
opened in the third slot with 7.2 million dollars in ticket
sales.


The fourth-place movie of the weekend was police drama
"Fracture," taking in seven million dollars, while the ice
skating comedy "Blades of Glory" skidded to fifth place with 5.2
million dollars.


"Meet the Robinsons," a Disney computer-animated feature about a
child orphan inventor and his saga to save the future, took sixth
place with 4.8 million dollars in North American theaters.


British police comedy "Hot Fuzz," followed in seventh place after
earning 4.8 million, trailed by the motel horror flick "Vacancy"
at 4.2 million.


US wrestler's Stone Cold Steve Austin's action thriller "The
Condemned," about a man who has to fight his way out of a Central
American prison, debuted at ninth place with four million
dollars.


Rounding out the top 12 was the Ice Cube comedy "Are We Done Yet"
at 10th with 3.4 million, the breakdancing revival "Kickin' It
Old Skool" opened with 2.8 million dollars and "In the Land of
Women" won 2.7 million.


The top 12 films grossed an estimated 62.9 million dollars, down
30 percent from the same weekend last year.

