

Nigeria on Sunday began preparations for the inauguration of a
new government despite widespread protests and criticisms over
the conduct of general elections earlier this month.


A 29-member organising committee was approved by outgoing
President Olusegun Obasanjo, who steps down on May 29 after eight
years in office and will hand over to his anointed successor,
Umar Musa Yar'Adua.


The ruling People's Democratic Party (PDP) won a landslide
victory in both the governorship and parliamentary polls this
month.


But both votes were marred by violence, resulting in about 200
deaths, and were heavily criticised by the United States and the
European Union as the worst in the African nation's recent
history.


Local and international monitors also said the vote was generally
flawed.


Opposition parties and civil society groups have called for the
cancellation of the vote and threatened to refuse to recognise a
government formed from it. They have organised peaceful protests
for Tuesday.


Elections in some districts were rerun on Saturday but were
marred by voter apathy.


In the poll results announced on Sunday the opposition
Progressive People's Alliance (PPA) won the governorship of the
southeastern state of Imo.


State resident electoral commissioner Ismaila Abdukareem told
reporters that PPA candidate Ikedi Ohakim garnered 749,800 votes,
beating Ifeanyi Ararume of ruling PDP, who received 309,373
votes.


PDP however won the battle for 23 of the 25 state legislative
seats so far declared, while results were pending for the two
remaining seats, according to Ararume.

