

Arsenal captain Thierry Henry took a cheeky swipe at bitter
rivals Tottenham by criticising their exaggerated celebrations
whenever they avoid defeat in the north London derby.


Henry was baffled when Tottenham's players and fans wildly
celebrated Jermaine Jenas's last minute equaliser during the
team's 2-2 draw at White Hart Lane earlier this month.


The France striker insists Martin Jol's team should show more
restraint because they have failed to achieve anything
significant this season.


"What makes me laugh is the way Tottenham always celebrate
whenever they get a draw against us," Henry told the Arsenal
programme for their match against Fulham.


"I would like to remind them that once again they have not made
the Champions League. So I was amazed to see their reaction at
the full-time whistle.


"I had to look twice at the score on the TV because I thought
they had won it the way they were celebrating."


There is little love lost between two clubs who are seperated by
just a few miles and, while Henry is currently sidelined with a
back injury, his controversial comments will ensure he remains
firmly in the spotlight.


"When I celebrated my equaliser against them at home last season
I did so because the goal had a meaning," he said.


"It turned out to be an important goal in the race for fourth
place. I wasn't going to celebrate just because we drew against
Tottenham.


"It was the same when we won the league there in 2004. They
equalised to make it 2-2 that day and when I saw Taricco
celebrate so much that he injured himself, I said to him 'you do
realise we only needed a point and now we are celebrating the
title on your ground."

