

Pieter van den Hoogenband and Michael Phelps set the stage for
their much anticipated showdown with fastest heat swims in the
200-metres freestyle at the world championships Monday.


Dutchman van den Hoogenband appeared to have something in reserve
in holding off South Korean rising star Park Tae-hwan in one
minute 47.36 seconds.


Phelps, who has one gold already in his quest for eight at the
meet, cruised through in the second-fastest 1:47.52 ahead of the
semi-finals later Monday.


"I just want to get in and have a relaxed swim. I am in the first
heat of the semi-finals so I will try to set a standard tonight,"
Phelps said.


They have only had one meeting and Hoogie beat the American home
in the 200m final at the 2004 Athens Olympics, although both were
minor medallists behind the now retired Australian Ian Thorpe.


Van den Hoogenband is one of only two swimmers, along with
Thorpe, to go under 1m45sec over 200m freestyle.


Park, who surged home in the final lap for an impressive victory
in the 400m freestyle final relegating defending champion Grant
Hackett to bronze on Sunday, was doing his best work over the
last 30m and hit the wall in 1:47.58.


American Tara Kirk edged Australian world record holder Leisel
Jones with the best time into Monday's semi-finals of the 100m
breaststroke.


Kirk trumped her better-credentialled teammate Jessica Hardy to
post the best time of 1:07.23 -- three-tenths of a second better
than Jones, who has dominated women's breaststroke since the 2004
Athens Olympics.


"I have the ability to go faster. What happens in the lane next
to me happens and there is nothing I can do about that. All I
have to do is focus on myself and my own performance," Kirk said
of Jones.


Jones swam smoothly to touch in 1:07.53 ahead Ukraine's fast-
finishing Anna Khlistunova (1:07.66). Hardy, a former world
record holder, won her heat in 1:08.68, the fifth best time.


"I haven't done a major race in a little while," Jones said.
"It's just about getting out there. The semi-finals are about
relaxing, they are just a practice race."


American world record holder Natalie Coughlin cruised into the
semi-finals of the 100m backstroke with a restrained time of
1:00.38.


Coughlin, who owns nine of the all-time top 10 performances in
the event and the world record of 59.58secs, qualified ahead of
reigning world champion Kirsty Coventry of Zimbabwe (1:00.57) and
Japan's Reiko Nakamura (1:00.80.


Reigning Olympic champion Coughlin is the only woman to swim
under one minute for the event, but was a bronze medallist behind
Coventry at the 2005 Montreal world championships.


French sensation Laure Manaudou, who smashed the championship
record in winning the 400m freestyle final on Sunday's opening
night, looms as a possible challenger with a fourth-best time of
1:00.92.


Olympic champion and world record holder Aaron Peirsol qualified
fourth fastest behind Austrian Olympic silver medallist Markus
Rogan in the 100m backstroke heats.


The American clocked 54.88secs, just over a half-second slower
than Rogan's 54.34 with Britain's Commonwealth Games champion
Liam Tancock (54.54) second fastest.


Peirsol's sister Hayley was the fastest into the women's 1500m
freestyle final clocking 16:02.82 ahead of Japan's Ai Shibata
(16:05.92) and teammate Kate Ziegler (16:07.71). Manaudou was the
sixth fastest in 16:12.16.

