

Protests were held across Egypt on Sunday against a set of
constitutional amendments which critics say will strip Egyptians
of civil liberties.


Authorities detained five activists after scuffles broke out in
central Cairo when police tried to prevent a few dozen
demonstrators from gathering in a downtown square, a security
source told AFP.


Photographers had their cameras confiscated by security forces.


Opposition members have been eager to rally support for a boycott
of the referendum being held on Monday over changes to 34
articles of the constitution, touted by the regime as a boost for
democracy but which critics say will expand the power of the
president.


About 300 people demonstrated outside the lawyers' syndicate in
the north Sinai town of El-Arish, carrying banners and shouting
slogans against the proposed amendments.


About 400 people gathered in Fayoum, south of Cairo, to protest
against the changes, chanting "down with the amendments", while
500 gathered in the Nile Delta governorate of Menufiya.


Dozens also protested outside the main courthouse in the Suez
Canal city of Ismailiya carrying banners branding the amendments
"a violation of personal rights."


Large contingents of police were deployed around the protests.


The protest group Kefaya (Arabic for "Enough") was also planning
to hold demonstrations in the second city of Alexandria on
Monday.


Parliament, which is dominated by the ruling National Democratic
Party, overwhelmingly passed amendments to 34 articles of the
constitution that they say will strengthen democracy and fight
terrorism.


A united opposition front argues that the changes will only
strengthen the regime's grip on power and has called on
supporters to boycott the referendum.

