

Landon Donovan scored three goals, matching second place on the
all-time US scoring list, to spark the Americans past Ecuador 3-1
here Sunday in an international football friendly.


US captain Donovan scored in the opening seconds, then added
second-half goals barely 60 seconds apart to secure the victory,
only the second for the US team against four losses and four
draws with the South American squad.


His second hat trick for the US, following a three-goal effort
against Cuba in 2003, means he now has 30 international goals and
matches Brian McBride for second on the all-time US list. Retired
Eric Wynalda owns the record with 34 US goals.


Donovan scored in the first minute, taking a poor clearing
attempt sent directly to him by Ecuadoran defender Ivan Hurtado
and blasting a left-footed shot into the net after only 42
seconds.


Ecuador equalized in the 12th minute when Felipe Caicedo stumbled
forward in the center of the penalty area. The 18-year-old
striker for Swiss club FC Basel chipped in the ball off the
sprawled body of goalkeeper Tim Howard.


In the 66th minute Donovan took a pass from Brian Ching, outraced
a defender down the right side then rolled the ball just inside
the far post past Ecuador 'keeper Rorys Aragon, delighting a
crowd of 31,457.


Donovan raced onto a crossing pass from DaMarcus Beasley in the
next minute and blasted a shot from the top of the penalty area
to complete the scoring in a match both teams used as a tune-up
for June's Copa America.


Using select newcomers with a team largely composed of talent
from last year's World Cup side, US interim coach Bob Bradley
improved to 3-0 after a 3-1 January victory over Denmark and a
2-0 triumph last month over Mexico.


The US men host Guatemala in a friendly Wednesday near Dallas.

