

The United States and South Korea Monday started their final
round of free-trade talks, facing a week-end deadline for any
deal after nearly 10 months of tough negotiations.


A smiling South Korean Trade Minister Kim Hyun-Jong greeted
Deputy US Trade Representative Karan Bhatia as negotiators took
their seats in a meeting room at a luxury hotel in the capital
Seoul.


After the last round earlier this month, US chief negotiator
Wendy Cutler said the two sides were "closing in" on agreements
on sensitive areas such as agriculture, automobiles and
pharmaceuticals.


South Korea insists it will maintain trade barriers on rice and
other sensitive items to protect its lifestyle, while Washington
says there should be no exceptions in any accord.


Washington also wants the early elimination of South Korean
levies on US autos, given that very few are sold here compared
with hundreds of thousands moving the other way.


The deal, if agreed, would be the biggest for Washington since
the 1993 North American Free Trade Agreement. US-South Korean
bilateral trade reached 74 billion dollars in 2006.


US negotiators must submit any free trade agreement to Congress
by April 2 for a 90-day review before President George W. Bush's
"fast-track" trade promotion authority expires on July 1.


South Korea has pushed for the pact despite hostility from
farmers and other workers who fear for their jobs if US goods
gain unfettered access to the domestic market.


About 7,500 farmers and activists staged a sit-down protest
Sunday outside the US embassy in downtown Seoul, demanding the
two countries scrap the talks.

