

German Chancellor Angela Merkel said Sunday the European Union
could hold an inter-governmental conference later this year to
define a new treaty that would replace the moribund constitution.


"We (Germany) are going to do everything that we can to prepare a
road map," charting the way out of the political impasse over the
constitution, she said during 50th anniversary celebrations of
the EU's founding treaty.


"If it meets the criteria, it could be the basis for an inter-
governmental conference (ICG)," she said, adding that Portugal
"could organise an ICG" when it takes over the EU's six-month
rotating presidency from Germany in July.


EU leaders on Sunday endorsed a "Berlin Declaration" in which
they committed to resolve the bloc's institutional woes by the
next European Parliament elections in 2009.


The constitution, meant to simplify the way the EU operates as it
expands,  has been in political limbo since it was rejected by
French and Dutch voters in referendums in mid-2005.


Irish Prime Minister Bertie Ahern on Sunday said he believed the
constitutional deadlock should be resolved well before 2009.


"I think 2009 is too late, we have to have it next year. You have
to have it before the elections.


"My hope is that the Berlin Declaration will pave the way and
that we will see a decision on the constitutional treaty in the
coming months," he said.


Ahern said he had drawn hope from the position expressed by Dutch
Prime Minister Jan Peter Balkenende on the constitution at a
dinner Merkel hosted for fellow EU leaders.


"I have never heard the Dutch so positive," the Irish leader
said.


Dutch and French voters threw the EU into gridlock when they
rejected the draft treaty in referendums in 2005.


On Saturday, Balkenende told reporters in Berlin that the
Netherlands was "not a problem country," but added: "The
Netherlands say that they want a contract for change but we do
not need the word constitution."

