

Great Britain's rugby league setup is expected to name a
successor to former coach Brian Noble in the coming days after
ruling Australian front-runner Shaun McRae out of contention.


McRae, who is out of work after resigning as director of coaching
at South Sydney, was thought to be the clear favourite following
his stints in Super League with St Helens and Hull.


However he is now out of the picture after RFL chief Richard
Lewis called him at home in Australia to say he had been
unsuccessful.


Although Lewis has expressed his preference for a British coach,
he never ruled out an overseas appointment and the signs are that
the League will go for a second Australian in six years.


Leeds Rhinos' Australian coach Tony Smith has now emerged as the
favourite.


Smith, who is in his fourth season at Headingley after a previous
stint at Huddersfield, is out of contract at the end of the
season but, if appointed, would be expected to take charge for
the mid-season international in June.


Britain then host New Zealand in a three-match Test series in the
autumn before reverting to England for the 2008 World Cup in
Australia 12 months later.


The rumour mill suggests that Leeds would move for Hull KR's
successful Australian coach Justin Morgan as a successor to
Smith.


Noble succeeded former Newcastle Knights and St George Illawarra
boss David Waite in 2004 but his contract ran out at the end of
2006 and was not renewed.


Wigan legend Shaun Edwards, now carving out a successful coaching
career in rugby union with Wasps, was sounded out by Lewis but
withdrew from the reckoning for family reasons.

