

Japanese share prices drifted lower in subdued morning trade
Monday as investors turned cautious ahead of an upcoming slew of
US and domestic economic data, dealers said.


They said shares gave up early gains as investors opted to pocket
profits after a four-day winning streak last week, with the major
players sitting on the sidelines ahead of their fiscal year end
book closing on Friday.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's benchmark Nikkei-225 index of leading
shares was down 10.48 points or 0.06 percent at 17,470.13 by the
lunch break.


The TOPIX index of all issues on the Tokyo Stock Exchange's first
section lost 6.36 points or 0.37 percent to 1,735.58.


Decliners led gains 823 to 734, with 169 stocks flat.


Volume was 734 million shares, down from 944 million on Friday
morning.


"The market is taking a breather following its rebound last
week," said Kazuhiro Takahashi, equities manager at Daiwa
Securities SMBC.


"Investors are also waiting for earnings announcements, scheduled
for release starting mid-April," he added, predicting the Nikkei
would hold within a range of 17,100-17,600 points this week.


Among the decliners, Tokyo Electric Power fell 80 yen or 1.85
percent to 4,250 and Kansai Electric Power shed 100 yen or 2.62
percent to 3,720.


Nippon Steel lost one yen to 862, Kobe Steel slipped two yen to
494 and JFE Holdings slid 50 yen to 7,380.


Exporters were mostly lower, although the yen kept a weak tone in
foreign exchange trading, dealers said.


Toyota Motor edged down 60 yen to 7,780 and Matsushita Electric
Industrial fell 15 yen to 2,475.


The Nikkei newspaper reported at the weekend that Matsushita had
decided to withdraw completely from providing Internet services
by selling its Panasonic hi-ho service to Internet Initiative
Japan Inc.


Hitachi edged up four yen to 875 after a newspaper reported that
the company planned to increase production overseas of flat-panel
televisions to meet demand and to save on manufacturing costs.


In the retail sector, Isetan rose 45 yen or 2.15 percent to 2,140
but Tokyu Corp shed seven yen to 961 after a newspaper reported
that the companies had agreed to an alliance between their
department store operations.

