

Egyptians were to vote on Monday in a referendum on a series of
changes to the constitution which opposition and rights groups
have vehemently condemned.


The government has billed the amendments to 34 of the
constitution's articles a boost to democratic reform and to the
country's security but critics argue they will roll back basic
civil rights and were only designed to stem the rise of the
Islamist opposition and prop up the regime.


Here are some of the key points in the proposed amendments, which
were approved by parliament on March 19:


-- Article 179 was amended to allow the authorities to arrest
suspects, search their homes, read their mail and tap their
phones without a warrant in terrorism cases.


The same article was also modified to grant the president the
power to refer terrorism suspects to any court, a move observers
said could herald an increase in the number of referrals to
military courts.


-- Article 5 was amended to include a clause banning political
parties or activity with "a religious reference or basis", a move
seen as specifically targeting the popular but officially
outlawed opposition Muslim Brotherhood.


-- Article 88 was amended in a way that limits the independent-
minded judges' power to supervise elections. Balloting and vote-
counting will now be monitored by an ill-defined "supreme
commission."


-- Article 136 was amended to remove a requirement that the
president needs to seek popular approval through a referendum
before dissolving parliament.

