

US chip giant Intel said Monday it would build a 2.5-billion-
dollar plant in China, heralding what some analysts see as a
fundamental transformation in the nation's role as a
manufacturing power.


The integrated wafer plant, called Fab 68, will be Intel's first
of its kind in Asia, and will be located in the northeast Chinese
port city of Dalian, the company said in a statement issued ahead
of a signing ceremony in Beijing.


"China is our fastest-growing major market and we believe it's
critical that we invest in markets that will provide for future
growth to better serve our customers," said Intel President and
CEO Paul Otellini in the statement.


"Fab 68 will be our first new wafer fab at a new site in 15
years... This new investment will bring our total to just under
four billion dollars, making Intel one of the largest foreign
investors in China."


Construction on Fab 68, which will produce 300-millimetre
(12-inch) integrated wafers, is scheduled to begin later this
year with production projected to begin in the first half of
2010, the statement said.


It is the first time since 1992, when Intel built 10 plants in
Ireland, that the company has built a fab from the ground up at a
brand new site, it said.


When completed, Fab 68 will become part of Intel's manufacturing
network to include eight 300-millimetre factories in 2010 with
other fabs located in the United States, Ireland and Israel, the
statement said.


The planned manufacturing facility is seen as part of China's
gradual movement up the value-added chain.


So far it has been the centre of labour-intensive assembly of
finished parts, mostly imported from more advanced economies.


The Intel plant could herald a gradual transformation of China's
economy and its positioning as a center for more sophisticated
parts production, analysts have said.

