

Joakim Noah, the son of French tennis legend Yannick Noah, helped
defending champion Florida book a return to US college
basketball's Final Four on Sunday with an 85-77 victory over
Oregon.


The Gators, trying to become the first school since Duke
University in 1991 and 1992 to win the national title two years
in a row, will meet the University of California at Los Angeles
(UCLA) in the national semi-finals at Saturday.


Winning the US national tournament's Midwest regional final
Sunday sent the Gators into a rematch of last year's final, which
Florida won 73-57 over UCLA.


The winner of the rematch will play for the title on April 2
against either Ohio State or Georgetown, which defeated North
Carolina 96-84 in Sunday's East regional final.


Florida's Corey Brewer scored 14 points and had a crucial block
with 24 seconds left as the Gators overcame a tough challenge
from the Ducks.


Lee Humphrey scored 23 points and Taurean Green added 21 for the
Gators.


Despite facing a huge disadvantage inside and some sizzling
outside shooting by Humphrey and Green, the Ducks kept the Gators
in their sights.


Trailing Florida by 78-69 after Noah split a pair of free throws,
Oregon pulled within 78-74 with 33 seconds remaining when
freshman Tajuan Porter hit a 3-pointer and, after Green stepped
on the baseline on an inbounds play, Aaron Brooks made a pair of
free throws.


Green then went 1-of-2 at the stripe, giving the Ducks a chance
to turn it into a one-possession game.


However, Brewer rejected a layup attempt by Brooks despite the
Oregon guard using his off arm to try and fend off.


The Gators forward collected the rebound before being fouled and
made both free throws for a 81-74 advantage with 24 seconds left.


Although Porter knocked down another 3-pointer for the Ducks,
Green made 4-of-6 free throws in the closing 16 seconds to send a
defending champion back into the Final Four for the first time
since Michigan State in 2001.

