

Iran will respond in the "near future" to the latest UN sanctions
and to an offer of fresh talks with major powers over its suspect
nuclear program, its foreign minister said here Sunday.


"In the near future we will announce our position regarding the
resolution which was adopted yesterday," Manouchehr Mottaki told
a press conference here.


Asked whether Tehran was prepared to accept an offer by six major
powers -- Britain, China, France, Germany, Russia and the United
States -- to resume talks to find a way out of the nuclear
standoff, he replied: "if there are new requests or proposals
made, we will have appropriate reactions and answers to those
too."


"We hope that they (the six) are not going to repeat what has
been repeated in the past," he noted, referring to the UN demand
that Iran suspend sensitive uranium enrichment in order for talks
to begin.


"Without any preconditions, Iran is always ready to join
multilateral negotiations to raise all the matters and a find a
comprehensive solution," he said.


Mottaki repeated his view that the sanctions unanimously approved
by the UN Security Council Saturday were "illegal and
unjustified" and insisted that "all questions about Iran's
nuclear program have been answered."


Tehran insists its nuclear program is designed for civilian
energy purposes, but Western nations fear it is a cover for
building an atomic bomb.


The Security Council's five permanent members plus Germany have
tasked EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana with seeking new
talks with Iran on ways to stop Tehran from enriching uranium.


"The resolution passed yesterday will be examined carefully by
Iran, and the response will come in the coming days," he said.


UN chief Ban Ki-moon also appealed for fresh dialogue, urging
Tehran "to urgently take the necessary steps to restore the
international community's trust that its nuclear program is
peaceful in nature," a statement from his office said.

