

German Chancellor Angela Merkel urged Iran Sunday to accept an
offer of new talks on its nuclear programme, after the UN
Security Council hit the Islamic republic with new sanctions.


"If Iran is prepared to return to the fold of the international
community we are prepared to make very generous offers to them,"
she told reporters, amid European Union 50th anniversary
celebrations in Berlin.


"The European Union is supporting the sanctions, on one hand...
but on the other hand keeping open the possibility of
negotiations," she said.


The Security Council's five permanent members plus Germany have
tasked EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana with seeking new
talks with Iran's top nuclear negotiator on ways to stop Tehran
enriching uranium.


"I have been asked by the countries that have been dealing most
closely with Iran to make contact with Dr Ali Larijani in order
to see whether we can find a route to negotiations," Solana said
in the statement this weekend.


"The door to negotiations is open; I hope we can together find a
way to go through it," said the EU's top diplomat, who also
briefed the leaders on the latest developments.


Talks between Iran, three European nations -- Germany, Britain
and France -- Solana, and the International Atomic Energy Agency
collapsed last year over Tehran's refusal to suspend uranium
enrichment.


That impasse led the UN Security Council in December to impose
targeted sanctions, which were broadened in a new vote on
Saturday.


The measures, agreed after days of behind-the-scenes bargaining,
block all Iranian arms exports and freeze the overseas assets of
28 additional officials and institutions linked to Iran's nuclear
and ballistic missile programmes.


Western nations, led by the United States, fear that the Islamic
republic is trying to develop an atomic weapon under the guise of
a civilian nuclear programme.


Tehran says it is only exercising its right to produce nuclear
energy.

