

The prime minister of the United Arab Emirates arrived here
Sunday on a two-day visit to India aimed at boosting ties between
a key global oil producer and one of Asia's fastest growing
economies.


Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashed al-Maktoum -- also the ruler of the
booming emirate of Dubai -- would preside over the signing of
several agreements aimed at enhancing trade ties between the two
countries, an Indian official said.


India's exports to the UAE increased from 2.4 billion dollars in
2001-2002 to more than 8.5 billion dollars in 2005-2006, Indian
Ambassador C.M. Bhandari told reporters in Dubai last week.


UAE non-oil exports to India surged from 915 million dollars to
4.3 billion dollars in the same period.


The UAE is a prime destination for Indian migrant workers. Their
numbers in the private sector increased in 2006 to around 1.3
million, or 50 percent of the total non-government labour force.


Official data put foreigners at 80 percent of the UAE's
population of 4.1 million at the end of 2005.


Remittances from Indian workers in the UAE in 2006 were expected
to reach six billion dollars, out of 20 billion dollars
anticipated from six million Indian workers in the countries of
the oil-rich Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC).


India, which gets most of its oil from the Gulf, is negotiating a
free trade agreement with GCC members Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman,
Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the UAE.


India produces about 30 million tonnes of crude oil annually. But
it imports 70 percent of its energy needs and is keen to buy more
oil assets abroad to ensure steady supply for its growing
economy, which clocked eight percent growth last year.

