

National Football League players will not face suspensions based
only on evidence gathered in the newest US doping scandal, NFL
Players Association executive director Gene Upshaw said.


"We are not going to get into a witch hunt," Upshaw told the
Charlotte Observer.


World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) chairman Dick Pound suggested
suspensions for players linked to evidence uncovered in a federal
investigation into steroids and human growth hormone sold over
the internet with phony prescriptions.


Prosecutors are expected to present evidence to NFL and Major
League Baseball officials this week linking some of their players
to the case that has prompted charges against 20 people, mostly
distributors and pharmacists.


Similar evidence to what the leagues will receive was used to
issue "non- analytical positive" banishments to five athletics
stars, including Tim Montgomery, in the BALCO scandal where a
once-undetectable drug evaded tests.


But Upshaw told the newspaper that such tests should be the only
criteria for deciding who should be suspended.


"We will not let WADA determine how we operate our program,"
Upshaw said.


"We discipline only for a positive test. WADA can say whatever
they like. The players in the NFL have both a union and a
collective bargaining agreement."


Pound told the Observer that Upshaw's stance shows a lack of true
commitment to keeping American football free of dope cheats.


"If he wanted his sport and the NFL to be drug-free, he would not
say that," Pound told the Observer by e-mail. "It's an either-or
situation. Either he wants drug-free (US) football or he does
not."

