

After Tamil Tiger rebels carried out their first ever air raid on
a military airbase next to Sri Lanka's international airport,
following are key dates in the island's long-running conflict.


1972: Velupillai Prabhakaran forms Tamil New Tigers (TNT)


July 1975: Prabhakaran murders mayor of Jaffna


May 1976: TNT renamed the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE)


July 23, 1983: LTTE rebels kill 13 soldiers in Jaffna, sparking
anti-Tamil riots that leave 600 people dead


July 8, 1985: First direct talks between government and LTTE fail


July 29, 1987: New Delhi and Colombo agree on the deployment of
an Indian peacekeeping force after months of bloodshed


March 24, 1990: India pulls out after losing 1,200 soldiers
fighting the LTTE, which now controls large areas of the north


May 21, 1991: Indian premier Rajiv Gandhi killed, allegedly by
LTTE suicide bomber


May 1, 1993: LTTE suicide bomber kills president Ranasinghe
Premadasa


August 16, 1994: Chandrika Kumaratunga elected prime minister,
pledging to start peace talks


November, 1994: Chandrika Kumaratunga elected president


April 19, 1995: Peace talks collapse


December 2, 1995: Tamil Tiger bastion of Jaffna falls to Sri
Lankan army


January 31, 1996: LTTE blows up central bank in Colombo, killing
91 people


July, 1996: Rebels overrun army camp in northeastern Mullativu,
killing 1,200 soldiers. Seventy passengers die in train bomb near
Colombo


October 8, 1997: The United States declares the LTTE a terrorist
group. Britain, Canada and Australia follow suit in February 2001


October 15, 1997: The LTTE rams a truck bomb into Colombo's World
Trade Centre, leaving 17 dead and 100 injured, including foreign
tourists


January 25, 1998: LTTE suicide bomb devastates Sri Lanka's
holiest Buddhist shrine, Kandy's Temple of the Tooth, killing 17
people


September 26, 1998: Tigers overrun Kilinochchi army camp, killing
1,000 soldiers


December 18, 1999: Kumaratunga wounded in assassination bid
blamed on the Tigers. Twenty-six others die


November 1, 2000: Norway's peace envoy Erik Solheim meets
Prabhakaran


July, 2001: Tigers kill 14 in suicide attack on Colombo airport


December 5, 2001: Ranil Wickremesinghe becomes prime minister and
revives peace bid


February 23, 2002: Government and rebels declare a ceasefire.


April 10, 2002: Prabhakaran agrees to accept regional autonomy
but refuses to give up armed struggle


September, 2002: Government lifts ban on LTTE. Talks held in
Thailand, prisoners of war are exchanged for the first time and
rebels drop demand for separate state


December, 2002: Both sides agree to share power, minority Tamils
to enjoy autonomy in the north and east


April 21, 2003: Tigers suspend peace talks, saying they are being
marginalised


December 26, 2004: Tsunami kills more than 31,000 Sri Lankans


August 12, 2005: Suspected Tiger snipers kill foreign minister
Lakshman Kadirgamar


February 22-23, 2006: Peace talks fail in Switzerland


May 29: The European Union declares the LTTE a terrorist
organisation.


June 15: Bus blast kills 64. Tigers deny involvement. Air strikes
pound Tamil positions


August 4: Seventeen workers of a French charity are killed
execution-style in the northeastern town of Muttur. Truce
monitors blame government forces


August 11: Tiger rebels launch major offensive in Jaffna.
Hundreds are killed on both sides in a two-week battle.


October 28, 29: Peace talks in Geneva collapse


November 27: Prabhakaran effectively ends the four-year peace
process by declaring talks with the government have failed and
independence is now the only option.


December 1: Defence Secretary Gotabhaya Rajapakse escapes suicide
bombing. The government invokes tough anti-terror laws.


March 26, 2007:  Tamil Tigers use aircraft for the first time to
bomb the island's main military air base, killing three airmen
and wounding 16. The adjoining international airport shuts
briefly.

