

Caribbean nations on Sunday observed a minute of silence to mark
the 200th anniversary of the end of the British slave trade and
urged better education to prevent a repeat of past atrocities.


"It is a time to teach the younger generation . . . the history,
the lessons and the effects, and to ensure that we never again
experience this tragedy in old or new forms," said St. Vincent
and the Grenadines Prime Minister Ralph Gonsalves, who currently
chairs the 15-nation Caribbean Community (Caricom).


During a ceremony at Guyana's parliament building Caricom's
deputy secretary general, Ambassador Lolita Applewhaite, said
that during Europe's trade in almost 25 million Africans to the
Americas, those who died were never given proper funerals.


"Their bodies were either thrown into the sea, into mass graves
or into the bushes," she said.


"We have come here to honor those who died as a result of raids
and warfare in Africa, the journey in shackles to the coast, the
trauma of the Middle Passage and those who were executed and
killed in combat in resistance to slavery," she said.


Sunday was designated International Day for the Commemoration of
the 200th Anniversary of the Abolition of the Trans-Atlantic
Slave Trade in keeping with a UN General Assembly resolution
adopted last year.


That resolution recognized the slave trade and slavery as among
the worst violations of human rights in the history of humanity.


Slavery and the slave trade were declared crimes against humanity
by the World Conference against Racism, Racial Discrimination,
Xenophobia and Related Intolerance, held in Durban, South Africa
in 2001.

