

The Palestinian Islamist group Hamas will back an Arab consensus
on a proposed plan for peace with Israel at this week's Riyadh
summit, its political chief reportedly said during a visit on
Sunday.


Khaled Meshaal, in talks with Saudi Foreign Minister Prince Saud
al-Faisal, said Hamas "will support the Arab consensus and will
not differ with the Palestinian official position" which has
endorsed the Arab blueprint, an Arab diplomat told AFP,
requesting anonymity.


He did not elaborate, but the summit opening in Riyadh on
Wednesday is expected to revive the Saudi-authored plan which
entails recognition of Israel and was first endorsed at an Arab
summit in Beirut in 2002.


Meshaal also said that Hamas "accepts the establishment of a
Palestinian state within the June 4, 1967 borders", according to
the diplomat.


The Arab blueprint offers Israel normal ties in return for
withdrawal from Arab lands captured in 1967 and the establishment
of a Palestinian state.


It was Meshaal's second visit in five days to Saudi Arabia, which
brokered a deal last month between Hamas and the secular Fatah
party of Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas that led to the
formation of a unity government.


Hamas does not recognise Israel, but Meshaal said in the Saudi
Red Sea city of Jeddah last Wednesday that Palestinians had
launched a diplomatic offensive aimed at securing an independent
state on territory occupied in 1967.


Abbas's Fatah party endorses a two-state solution recognising
Israel.


Israel, its major ally the United States and the European Union
refuse to deal with Hamas unless it recognises Israel and
renounces violence. The movement insists on the right of
resistance against Israeli occupation.

