

Polish President Lech Kaczynski said Sunday it was "unrealistic"
to expect a new EU treaty to be adopted before 2009 to revive the
stalled constitutional process.


"It is perhaps a beautiful target, but it seems unrealistic to
me," Kaczynski told Polish reporters after the European Union
summit to mark the 50th anniversary of the founding Treaty of
Rome.


The president said the 27-member EU might agree the wording of a
treaty by 2009 but that it could not come into force before 2011.


"Even to have the treaty accepted by everybody in its new form
over the next two years would be an enormous success for Europe,"
he added.


The constitution, which has been in limbo since its rejection by
French and Dutch voters in referendums two years ago, would
streamline the EU as it expands and replace the current rotating
presidencies with a longer-term post.


Poland is scheduled for its turn at the presidency in the last
six months of 2011, should the current system remain in place.


Kaczynski repeated his position that in any future treaty Poland
would want a reference to Europe's Christian roots in the
preamble.


Poland also wanted to clear up the question of the EU voting
system and a precise determination of what powers were retained
to member states and what came under the competence of the
European Union, he added.


"The time of the nation states has not yet finished," said
Kaczynski.


Germany sought to use a special declaration issued for the
anniversary to set a 2009 deadline -- before European elections
are held -- to agree a new treaty strengthening EU institutions.

