

Bangladesh skipper Habibul Bashar warned the giants of the World
Cup that his history-making side is targetting more upsets in the
Super Eights.


Bangladesh beat Bermuda at Queen's Park Oval here on Sunday by
seven wickets to clinch a place in the World Cup second round for
the first time and send mighty India crashing out of the
tournament in the process.


But Bashar wants his side to keep up their run.


"In the Super Eights the quality will be very high but we hope to
keep up our form and pressurise some of the big teams," said
Bashar whose side face world champions Australia in their opening
second round clash in Antigua on Saturday.


Bangladesh, coached by Dav Whatmore who took Sri Lanka to the
1996 world title, chased a target of 96 off 21 overs in Sunday's
Group B match after a day interrupted by four rain suspensions.


"It wasn't easy to play because of all the rain. We bowled really
well as the ball wasn't easy to grip as it was so wet," said
Bashar.


"But the whole team played really well. I'm delighted to be in
the Super Eights and we want to keep up this form."


Mohammad Ashraful was named man of the match for his cool-headed
29 not out which came after Bangladesh had wobbled at 37-3 at one
stage.


"It was very difficult to bat as the ball was moving around a
lot," said Ashraful.


"But I knew that if I stayed at the wicket and could score 30
runs that we would win."


Bermuda skipper Irvine Romaine, whose side were hoplessly
outclassed by Sri Lanka and India in their first two matches, at
least tried to make a match of it.


Recalled seamer Saleem Mukuddem, dropped for the last match
because of disciplinary reasons, took all three Bangladesh
wickets to fall making the most of the helpful humid and cloudy
conditions.


"We had a great World Cup," said Romaine. "I think we made all of
Bermuda proud.


"Now we want to play more matches and qualify for the next World
Cup in 2011."

