

Pressure mounted on embattled Attorney General Alberto Gonzales
Sunday, as key US senators including three Republicans questioned
his credibility over the controversial firing of eight US
attorneys.


At issue is why the attorneys, appointed by the president, were
fired and what role Gonzalez may have played.


Leading Democrats say the White House removed the judges for
partisan reasons, while allies of President George W. Bush say
the prosecutors serve at the pleasure of the president, and the
president has the authority to dismiss them.


Gonzales said he played no role in the case, but documents
emerged late Friday appearing to show him participating in a
confidential meeting on the dismissals.


"You cannot have the nation's chief law enforcement officer with
a cloud hanging over his credibility," said Republican Senator
Chuck Hagel, speaking on 'This Week' on ABC.


"We have to have an attorney general who is candid, truthful,"
said another Republican, Senator Arlen Specter, on NBC. "If we
find out he has not been candid and truthful, that's a very
compelling reason for him not to stay on," he said.


Gonzales is scheduled to appear in what Specter called a "make-
or-break" Senate hearing on April 17.


Republican Lindsey Graham, also a member of the Senate Judiciary
Committee, said on CBS that the attorney general "has said some
things that just don't add up."


Said Graham: "I really do like Attorney General Gonzales. But he
has been wounded. He's going to have to come to the Senate and
re-establish his credibility."


Democratic Senator Dianne Feinstein bluntly urged Gonzales to
resign.


"I believe he should step down," said Feinstein, speaking on Fox
News Sunday. "I think the nation is not well served by this. I
think we need to get at the bottom of why these resignations were
made, who ordered them, and what the strategy was."


Republican Senator Trent Lott however defended Gonzalez, branding
the Democrats' demands a "partisan fishing expedition."


"The president has every right to remove US attorneys," Lott said
on Fox. "And I think, frankly, they should be. In fact, I've
noticed that they tend to get to think that they are federal
judges. They'll do what they want to."

