

A US database compiling the names of Americans and foreigners on
one terror watchlist has ballooned from fewer than 100,000 files
in 2003 to some 435,000 files now, the Washington Post reported
Sunday.


The database, called "TIDE" for Terrorist Identities Datamart
Environment, now is so large that it threatens to overwhelm its
managers, and its massive size has heightened concerns about
privacy and errors, the daily reported.


Critics say the bar for inclusion on the watchlist managed by the
National Counterterrorism Center is far too low, and complain
that once an individual is one list, it is virtually impossible
to get off it.


"The single biggest worry that I have is long-term quality
control," said Russ Travers, the official in charge of the
database, At any stage, the process can lead to "horror stories"
of mixed-up names and unconfirmed information, Travers
acknowledged.


"Where am I going to be, where is my successor going to be, five
years down the road?"


Travers told the daily that center gets "thousands of messages a
day," and acknowledged much of the information is "fragmentary,"
"inconsistent" and "sometimes just flat-out wrong."


The information is filtered by analysts and passed around to
various federal agencies, including the Transportation Security
Administration which develops the "no-fly list," which is very
difficult to get removed from.


Travers defended the center's accuracy, even after CBS news noted
last year that 11 of the 14 hijackers from September 11, 2001
were still on the list, five years after they died.


"We know for a fact that these people will use names that they
believe we are not going to list because they're out of
circulation -- either because they are dead or incarcerated ...
It's not willy-nilly. Every name is on the list, there's a reason
that it's on there," he said.

