

Heavy firing was heard near Sri Lanka's only international
airport early Monday following several explosions, officials and
residents said.


Roads leading to the airport were closed and people trying to
catch flights out of the country were turned back by police,
residents said. Telephone lines to the airport were also jammed.


Motorists and residents said they heard gunfire and several
blasts near the Bandaranaike international airport, about 35
kilometres (21 miles) north of here.


"We are also checking on the reports of gunfire," a spokesman for
the military said.


Defence ministry spokesman Prasad Samarasinghe said he could
confirm an "incident" at the adjoining military airbase where
security forces have their supersonic jets and a fleet of
helicopter gunships.


Officials here said initial suspicion pointed to a possible
rocket-propelled grenade attack or a mortar bomb being fired at
the military base, but there was no confirmation.


"We suspect there were at least four explosions," a military
source said, adding that the blasts had hit the military airbase
complex.


The airport was attacked by Tamil Tiger rebels in July 2001, who
destroyed six civilian jets after wrecking more than a dozen
military aircraft at the airbase.


It was not immediately clear whether aircraft landing and taking
off from the international airport were affected by the
"incident."


However, a resident said his relative who boarded a flight out of
the island sent a text message saying all passengers were asked
to disembark and were taken to a shelter.


Sri Lanka's airport has remained on alert for a repeat of the
July 2001 attack, with severe restrictions on the number of
people allowed into the terminal buildings.


The northern boundary of the international airport is shared with
the military base, through which Tamil Tigers entered the
facility in 2001 to carry out their devastating strikes.

