

Iran reacted angrily on Sunday to fresh sanctions imposed by the
UN Security Council over its nuclear drive and ignored an offer
of new talks from the major powers.


Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki described the new sanctions,
which build on a first package adopted in December, as "unlawful"
and "unjustifiable".


Even though the resolution was adopted unanimously by the 15
members of the Security Council, Mottaki charged that the
sanctions were the work of a small number of council members, an
allusion to the main Western powers.


The resolution blocks all Iranian arms exports and freezes the
overseas assets of 28 additional officials and institutions
linked to Iran's nuclear and ballistic missile programmes.


It also restricts financial aid or loans to Tehran, and sets a
fresh 60-day deadline for Iran to comply with UN demands or face
"further appropriate measures."


The new sanctions come after Iran ignored repeated ultimatums to
suspend uranium enrichment, the process that produces fuel for
nuclear power stations but in highly enriched form can also make
the fissile core for an atomic bomb.


The vote came amid an escalating diplomatic row between Iran and
Britain over the fate of 15 British marines and sailors, who were
seized in the Shatt al-Arab waterway between Iran and Iraq on
Friday as they conducted "routine" anti- smuggling operations.


Mottaki reiterated Iran's insistence that it has the right to
master the nuclear fuel cycle for peaceful purposes under the
Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT).


He ignored an offer from the major powers of fresh talks to try
to get negotiations back up and running.


EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana said he had been tasked
with making contact with Iran's lead nuclear negotiator Ali
Larijani to try to find a basis for a return to the negotiating
table.


"I have been asked by the countries that have been dealing most
closely with Iran to make contact with Dr Ali Larijani in order
to see whether we can find a route to negotiations," he said.


The major powers have said Iran must first suspend enrichment
before substantive talks can take place. Iran insists any
suspension should be a matter for the negotiations themselves.


"We advise the 5+1 group (Britain, China, France, Russia and the
United States plus Germany) to return to the negotiating table as
quickly as possible and without preconditions," said the head of
the foreign affairs committee of the Iranian parliament,
Allaeddin Boroujerdi.


But after Saturday's vote, Russia, which has been one of Iran's
leading defenders and is helping it to build a first nuclear
power station in the Gulf port of Bushehr, called on Tehran to
rethink its position.


"We hope they will thoroughly study the statement of the foreign
ministers which is very positive and invites Iran to engage in
talks to find a mutually acceptable formula for negotiation,"
said Russia's UN ambassador Vitaly Churkin.


Boroujerdi said parliament could convene after the end of the
Persian New Year holiday on April 3 to consider its response.


In Berlin, German Chancellor Angela Merkel urged Iran to accept
new talks.


"If Iran is prepared to return to the fold of the international
community we are prepared to make very generous offers to them,"
she told reporters, amid European Union 50th anniversary
celebrations.


"The European Union is supporting the sanctions, on one hand...
but on the other hand keeping open the possibility of
negotiations," she said.


UN chief Ban Ki-moon, on a Middle East tour, also urged Iran to
return to talks and in a statement issued by his office told
Tehran "to urgently take the necessary steps to restore the
international community's trust that its nuclear programme is
peaceful in nature."


Iran's archfoe Israel welcomed the new resolution, even though,
at the insistence of Muslim Security Council members Indonesia
and Qatar, it included an indirect reference to the goal of a
nuclear-free Middle East, an allusion to its own undeclared
nuclear arsenal.

