

A Yemeni was killed on Sunday in clashes with police as workers
at a gas export terminal in southern Yemen protested at a French
engineer's alleged desecration of the Koran, a local official
said.


"One worker was killed and others were arrested following clashes
with police who intervened" to contain the protest at the
terminal being built by the French company Total in Balhaf port,
he told AFP, requesting anonymity.


"After a fight between a French engineer and another who is
Yemeni, the Frenchman -- to enrage the Yemeni -- threw a Koran on
the floor in an offensive way," the official said of the alleged
incident.


Over 400 workers protested when they found out about the
incident, burning four cars and a helicopter belonging to the
French company, and wrecking offices used by French staff, he
said.


Total is building a 320-kilometer (200-mile) pipeline to
transport gas from Marib, east of Sanaa, to Balhaf, on the Gulf
of Aden.


It holds nearly 43 percent of Yemen LNG, compared to little over
23 percent held by the state-owned Yemen Gas.


On Thursday, a French court acquitted the editor of the satirical
weekly Charlie Hebdo on charges of offending Muslims by
publishing cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed in 2006.


The Paris court threw out a suit brought by two Muslim
organisations against editor Philippe Val for reprinting the
cartoons which had first appeared in a Danish newspaper sparking
angry protests by Muslims worldwide.

