

More than 1.5 million retail trading accounts are being opened a
month in China, boosting the precipitous rise in China's domestic
stock markets, a state press report said Thursday.


In the first three months of the year punters in China opened
4.79 million new accounts, a 56-percent increase from the 3.08
million in the whole of 2006, the official Xinhua news agency
reported citing government statistics.


Over the past four working days to Wednesday, investors
registered more than 900,000 new trading accounts or 50,000 more
than the number opened in 2005, it said.


On Wednesday alone the number of new accounts in China's two
exchanges in Shanghai and Shenzhen registered a record 252,000
new accounts, the China Securities Regulatory Commission said.


The sustained fresh fund inflows continue to drive equities
against the backdrop of a fast growing economy, with the market
looking to corporate results for its next immediate lead.


Despite repeated cautions from analysts and regulators about the
risk of a significant correction investors seem only more intent
on getting into a market that is up about 180 percent since
January 2006.


Share prices on the key Shanghai Composite Index were sharply
lower Thursday morning ahead of the release of first-quarter
economic growth figures due later in the day that are expected to
show a blistering pace of growth.


The conventional wisdom is that China regulators will have to
take more steps to slow the pace of the nation's economy.


The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index, which covers A and
B-shares, ended the morning 86.39 points lower at 3,526.0.


On Wednesday, the benchmark Shanghai Composite Index closed up
0.53 points at a record 3,612.40 on turnover of 167.42 billion
yuan (21.66 billion US dollars).

