

Some 42,000 people have been displaced by  fighting between
troops and Muslim militants in the southern Philippine island of
Jolo, the UN's food agency said Thursday.


The World Food Programme (WFP) said it planned to deliver 85
tonnes of rice to affected areas in Jolo, where a faction of the
Moro National Liberation Front (MNLF) has been engaged in heavy
fighting with marines since last week.


Fighting began last Friday when MNLF forces shelled a military
base, triggering heavy reprisals.


At least 12 people from both sides have died since, while some
8,500 families or roughly 42,000 people have been displaced,
officials and the WFP said.


"We hope this support for hungry families will help stabilise the
situation," the WFP's Valerie Guarnieri said in a statement.


Guarnieri said that more food would be provided if the number of
displaced continued to rise.


Jolo officials have appealed for medicines, blankets, tents and
vitamins for those displaced, who are now being housed in schools
converted into camps.


The MNLF was the country's largest separatist group until it
sealed a peace accord with Manila in 1996 and settled for limited
autonomy.


Its leader, Nur Misuari, subsequently became governor of an
autonomous Muslim region. He lost the government's support in
2001 amid charges of corruption, and his forces attacked targets
on Jolo.


The armed forces said last week's attacks, led by his top aide
Habier Malik, aimed to force the government to release Misuari
ahead of a meeting of the 57-nation Organisation of the Islamic
Conference (OIC) in July.


The OIC recognises the MNLF as the sole representative of
minority Muslims in the predominantly Catholic Southeast Asian
nation.

