

Japanese share prices slumped 1.44 percent in morning trade
Thursday as investors rushed to sell exporter stocks after the
dollar suffered fresh losses against the yen, dealers said.


They said that the fall in Tokyo came despite fresh gains
overnight on Wall Street where upbeat earnings news helped power
the Dow Jones index to a record closing high Wednesday.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
dropped 254.92 points to 17,412.41 by the lunch break.


The broader Nikkei-225 index of all first-section shares shed
23.01 points or 1.33 percent to 1,707.70.


Decliners beat gainers 1,367 to 252, with 105 stocks flat.


Volume increased to 995 million shares from 900 million Wednesday
morning.


Dealers said investors were wary ahead of the Japanese earnings
reporting season next week.


"Foreign investors sold actively to lock in profits," said
Tsuyoshi Segawa, a strategist at Shinko Securities.


Segawa noted that foreign investors appeared to be preparing for
any possible surprise from the earnings announcements, which is
typical behaviour prior to the start of every reporting season.


Exporters were under pressure as the yen strengthened against a
weakening dollar.


Sony fell 120 yen or 1.83 percent to 6,440 while Toyota Motor
dropped 40 yen or 0.55 percent to 7,290.


Namco Bandai Holdings inched up one yen to 1,920 after the game
developer said it now expects to have posted a bigger-than-
expected profit in the year ended March 2007 thanks to brisk game
sales.


Kyocera fell 160 yen or 1.37 percent to 11,500 after the
electronics component maker said it plans to spend up to 30
billion yen (254 million dollars) to triple its solar cell
production capacity in order to compete with chief rival, Sharp
Corp. Sharp slumped 65 yen or 2.74 percent to 2,305.

