

South Korean Se Ri Pak, already bound for the LPGA Hall of Fame,
will be joined in the World Golf Hall of Fame class of 2007 by
Curtis Strange and Hubert Green, according to voting announced on
Wednesday.


Pak has already met most of the rigorous LPGA Hall of Fame
criteria, needing only to start a 10th tournament of this, her
10th season, to be eligibile.


Since joining the LPGA Tour full-time in 1998, Pak has won more
than 20 tournaments, including five major championships.


When the World Golf hall inductions take place on November 12,
she'll be joined by Strange, a former US Ryder Cup captain and
winner of back-to-back US Open titles in 1988-89, and Green,
winner of the 1977 US Open.


Strange, a five-time Ryder Cup member as well as US captain in
2002, won 17 times on the PGA Tour, with all but one of the
victories coming in the 1980s, when he topped the money list
three times.


Strange received 70 percent of the vote on the PGA ballot. Sixty-
five percent is needed for election from a panel of Hall of Fame
members, golf writers and golf executives.


"It's a wonderful feeling that you're included with all of the
greats in the game," said the 52-year-old Strange, who currently
competes on the Champions Tour.


Green, who overcame throat cancer four years ago, won 19 times on
the PGA Tour. He captured the 1977 US Open at Southern Hills,
where he was informed of a death threat against him while playing
the back nine during the final round.


Green, 60, received 52 percent of the votes but was elected
through the veterans category.


"To finally get into the Hall of Fame, it's nice," said Green,
who also captured the 1985 PGA Championship. "Our record is
there. We can't change it.  Whatever we do in life now isn't
going to make any difference. We qualified."

