

The gunman who killed at least 30 students on a Virginia college
campus sent photographs, video and writings to NBC News, police
said Wednesday.


"Earlier today, NBC News in New York received correspondence that
we believe to have been from Cho Seung-Hui, the gunman
responsible for the fatal shootings in Norris Hall," police
superintendent Steve Flaherty told a news conference.


"The correspondence included multiple photographs, video and
writings. Upon receipt of this correspondence, NBC News
immediately notified authorities."


Flaherty said the material had been turned over to the Federal
Bureau of Investigation, but gave no further details about what
it contained.


"This may be a very new critical component of this investigation.
We are in the process right now of attempting to analyze and
evaluate its worth," he said.


The 23-year-old South Korean native launched a fatal rampage at
Virginia Tech University on Monday before turning the gun on
himself. The killings marked the deadliest school shooting in US
history.


NBC said on its website that it believed the material had been
sent after a first shooting incident on Monday at the university
in which a male and female student were killed, but before the
mass shooting in a second school building.


"Sometime after he killed two people in a dormitory but before he
slaughtered 30 more in a classroom building Monday morning, Cho
Seung-Hui sent NBC News a rambling communication and videos about
his grievances,"  the network said.


The package was apparently sent by mail and included "a written
communication, photographs and video," the statement said.


Network officials "would not immediately disclose its contents
pending the (FBI's) review beyond characterizing the material as
'disturbing.'"


The network said it would release another statement shortly.

