

The US Supreme Court backtracked on abortion rights for the first
time in more than a generation Wednesday, upholding a federal law
restricting access to a rare but controversial late-term abortion
procedure.


The bellwether ruling is a major victory for conservative forces
in the United States, which have battled for decades to reverse
the landmark 1973 Roe vs. Wade law establishing a woman's legal
right to terminate an unwanted pregnancy.


The narrow five-to-four decision came in a case challenging the
constitutionality of a separate five-year-old law seeking to
outlaw what critics call "partial birth abortion."


US President George W. Bush hailed the decision, which he said
affirms the "culture of life" espoused by many Americans.


"The partial-birth abortion ban, which an overwhelming bipartisan
majority in Congress passed and I signed into law, represents a
commitment to building a culture of life in America," Bush said,
adding that years-long efforts to outlaw the "abhorrent
procedure" reflect "the compassion and humanity of America."


"The Supreme Court's decision is an affirmation of the progress
we have made over the past six years in protecting human dignity
and upholding the sanctity of life," he said.


"We will continue to work for the day when every child is
welcomed in life and protected in law."


Abortion, one of the most divisive issues in US society, is a
major fault line that has fractured this country along liberal-
conservative lines for decades.


The controversial late-term abortion -- only carried out when the
fetus poses a danger to the mother's health -- was banned by the
US Congress in 2003, after lawmakers concluded it was not
medically necessary.


The procedure involves pulling the fetus feet-first through the
partially dilated cervix and puncturing its skull to allow it to
pass.


Some doctors say that such intact extractions are the safest for
the woman, but opponents insist that other abortion methods can
be just as effective.


Justice Anthony Kennedy, writing for the high court majority,
wrote that the ban does not impose an "undue burden" since there
were other options, such as making sure the fetus was not intact
when it had to be extracted.


US anti-abortion activists hailed the watershed ruling, and
expressed hope that the decision eventually will pave the way to
an outright ban on all abortions across the country.


"The time is now right to launch aggressive legal challenges
across America to abortion on demand," said Troy Newmann, of the
anti-abortion group Operation Rescue.


"This is the first legal crack in the crumbling Roe v. Wade
foundation, and is the first, necessary step toward banning the
horrific practice of abortion in this nation."


For their part, "pro-choice" interests said they were fearful
about the future of access to abortion, although they couched
their unease in the narrow terms of Wednesday's decision.


Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, in a sharply worded dissent, called
Wednesday's decision "alarming."


"It tolerates, indeed applauds, federal intervention to ban
nationwide a procedure found necessary and proper in certain
cases," she said.


"For the first time since Roe, the Court blesses a prohibition
with no exception safeguarding a woman's health," Ginsburg wrote.


US Senator Barbara Boxer, a staunch pro-choice advocate echoed
that alarm.


"Women who are in need of this banned procedure will be denied
it, even if they risk losing their fertility, becoming paralyzed
or sustaining organ damage" while having a less safe procedure,
Boxer said.


The ruling is a reversal of a Supreme Court stance in a similar
case several years ago.


In 2000 the high court, by a vote of five to four, invalidated
efforts by the state of Nebraska to outlaw the same type of
abortion, because the conservative Midwestern state had not made
allowances for the health of the mother.


But Wednesday's decision reflects Bush's appointments to the US
high court of two conservative justices who are likely to
radically alter the outcome of Supreme Court rulings for years to
come.


Some 1.2 million annual voluntary abortions take place after the
third month of pregnancy, according to some estimates, of which
the partial birth abortion method accounts for a few thousand.

