

Barry Bonds hit his 738th career home run here Wednesday, to inch
closer to Hank Aaron's record and help the San Francisco Giants
record 6-5 12-inning victory over the St. Louis Cardinals.


Bonds, who walked and scored in the second inning, homered on a
2-2 pitch from Ryan Franklin with two outs in the bottom of the
eighth to forge a 5-5 tie.


The 42-year-old slugger is now 18 home runs shy of surpassing
Aaron's all-time record of 755.


Bonds has hit four homers this season, and after a slow start he
appears to be finding his power stroke. He has hit three in his
past four games.


Rich Aurilia singled in the game-winner in the 12th inning as the
last-place Giants picked up a rare home victory.


Jonathan Sanchez worked out of a jam in the top half of the frame
and logged three scoreless innings for San Francisco, which had
dropped five of its first six home games.


In the top of the 12th, Albert Pujols singled, moved to second on
a sacrifice and advanced to third on a sacrifice. After Scott
Spiezio drew a walk, Sanchez struck out fellow lefthander Adam
Kennedy for the second out.  Sanchez got two quick strikes on
Yadier Molina before Pujols attempted to steal home but was
tagged out.


Pujols seemed to have a chance to pull off the straight steal,
but he stopped two-thirds of the way down the baseline.


Catcher Bengie Molina dropped the pitch and Pujols continued home
but Molina scooped the ball and tagged out Pujols.


Randy Winn dribbled a grounder up the middle in the bottom half
off Josh Hancock and moved to second on a sacrifice. After a
four-pitch walk to Omar Vizquel, Todd Linden struck out for the
fourth time.


However, Aurilia jumped on a 1-1 offering from his former
Cincinnati teammate and lofted the ball into left-center field,
easily plating Winn.


Pujols hit a two-run homer in a four-run second inning.

