

Asia's richest woman left her wealth to her fortune-teller in her
last known will which is all but certain to spark a huge legal
battle with relatives, Hong Kong media reported Thursday.


Nina Wang, who died aged 69 earlier this month and had no
children, left a legacy estimated as worth at least 4.2 billion
US dollars after transforming her company Chinachem into a real
estate empire.


A day after her lavish funeral Wednesday, two wills she allegedly
wrote in 2002 and 2006 were published separately in Next Magazine
and its sister Apple Daily publication.


The 2002 document said Wang's fortune would go to her charitable
trust. But the later version named her personal fortune teller,
Chan Chun Chuen, as the beneficiary.


Citing unnamed sources close to the family, Apple Daily said
Wang's family and senior aides were unfamiliar with Chan and
upset by the new will and were set to take the issue to court.


The sources said the family held "important evidence" that could
discredit Chan's will and were confident of winning any case.


Neither her lawyer nor her personal assistant could be reached
for comment.


If true, the 2006 document would have been penned two years after
Wang was diagnosed with cancer and after she won an eight-year
court battle against her father-in-law for control of her late
husband Teddy Wang's estate.


He disppeared in 1990 after being kidnapped. His body was never
found, and he was declared dead nine years later.


Meanwhile, Next Magazine published a two-page will provided by a
friend of Wang and supposedly written in Chinese in 2002.


It named no beneficiary but indicated that her assets will go to
a charity trust she set up with Teddy Wang before he disappeared.


Under her control Chinachem developed into a multi-billion US
dollar empire with more than 200 office towers and 400 companies
around the world.

