

Sergei Ivanov, Russia's first deputy prime minister and seen as
one of two main possible successors to President Vladimir Putin,
has backed the country's policy of state control over its energy
resources, in an interview published Thursday.


Speaking to the Financial Times, Ivanov also said that Russia
will not, under any circumstances, enter into another cold war,
as it seeks to accelerate its development.


"They (oil and gas reserves) are our resources and how to develop
them and where to get funds from is our business," Ivanov, who
like Putin is a former member of the KGB, told the business
daily.


"We allow foreign investors as contractors ... as investors in
technology. But I don't think that in the foreseeable future we
will allow any foreign  company to own any major field."


Ivanov, a 54-year-old former defence minister, is widely tipped
as one of the two main candidates in a presidential election
scheduled for 2008, the other being his fellow first deputy prime
minister, Dmitry Medvedev.


He told the FT that the country is not seeking to spark a cold
war, and any military modernisation it is conducting is not aimed
at the West, but instead potential threats from neighbours.


"In absolutely any scenario for Russia's development, we will not
enter into another cold war," Ivanov told the paper.


"We stepped on that rake once ... and will not repeat our mistake
ever again."


Ivanov also said that he had not thought about running for
Putin's post when it becomes vacant next year, saying: "If I
started thinking seriously and preparing for elections, then what
would I be doing here?"

