

The grandfather of the South Korean gunman who staged the
Virginia Tech massacre remembered him on Thursday as a smart and
quiet boy.


The 82-year-old maternal grandfather, who identified himself only
as Kim, told Yonhap news agency he last saw Cho Seung-Hui at age
seven before his family emigrated to the United States in 1992.


Kim said he remembered the boy as smart "but his silences during
his childhood worried his parents."


He said he was stunned by the news that Cho, 23, was the man who
killed 32 people on the US campus Monday before committing
suicide.


"Telephoning my daughter once or twice per year, I used to ask
her 'How is Seung-Hui doing?' and she responded "Seung-Hui is
doing OK'. How did he do such a thing," Kim said. "It's like a
thunderbolt in the clear sky."


Kim, who lives on the northern outskirts of Seoul, confirmed
media reports that Cho's family had gone to the United States in
search of a better life, especially for the children.


The parents run a dry cleaning business in Centreville, Virginia.


A former South Korean landlord of Cho's family has recalled him
as a "very quiet and well-behaved" boy before his emigration.


Fellow US students and teachers described Cho as a sullen and
troubled loner.


US police said Wednesday that Cho, an English major at Virginia
Tech, was accused of stalking two female students in 2005 and was
briefly committed to a mental health facility amid fears he was
suicidal.


South Korean President Roh Moo-Hyun has offered the American
people condolences for the deadliest school shooting in US
history.


Other South Koreans expressed shock and fears of a racially
motivated backlash against their compatriots living in the United
States.

