

A deaf woman was spared the death penalty for murdering and
cutting up with a chainsaw another deaf woman who she believed
was trying to break up her lesbian romance.


The announcement of a life sentence by the jury foreperson on
Wednesday night swept months of anxiety out of the South Dakota
courtroom.


Had the jury voted for a death sentence, Daphne Wright, 43, would
have been the first woman on South Dakota's death row. The
largely rural state has not executed a prisoner in more than 60
years.


Wright was convicted last week of the premeditated murder of a
woman who disappeared on February 1, 2006. It took weeks for
investigators to find all the pieces of Darlene VanderGiesen's
charred body.


Minnehaha County State's Attorney Dave Nelson, who had earlier
urged the jury to impose the death penalty, said there was
"immense relief on everybody's part" that jurors had sentenced
Wright to life in prison without parole.


Wright's lawyers, who had raised issues of fairness throughout
the trial, argued in closing statements of the sentencing hearing
Wednesday that the case does not "go along with the worst of the
worst" for which the death penalty is reserved.


Wright did not dismember the body for her own "perverse
pleasure," said Jeff Larson, chief deputy public defender, but
because her other attempts to get rid of the body failed.


Her mind was not depraved, he said, it just lacked problem-
solving skills.


Wright smiled briefly when she heard the verdict but did not
speak to reporters. Her mother, Carolyn Tucker, expressed
frustration with the jury, which had no deaf or black members.


"My daughter was just sentenced to life in prison for something I
don't believe she did," she told AFP. "She said from day one she
didn't do it, and I believe her. I know she didn't do it."

