

China sentenced a Chinese-born Canadian citizen to life in prison
for terrorism and separatism on Thursday, as Canada expressed
concern over a lack of consular access to the ethnic Uighur.


Huseyin Celil was sentenced to life in prison for "terrorist
activities and plotting to split the country," Xinhua news agency
reported from Urumqi, capital of the nation's westernmost
Xinjiang region.


He is a "prominent member of the 'East Turkistan' terrorist
organisation," the report said.


A Canadian embassy spokesman said Canadian officials were in
Urumqi, but were unable to attend the trial and denied consular
access to him.


"We are reviewing the verdict, but essentially our consular
officials were in Urumqi but were not allowed into the trial," he
said.


"We are very concerned that consular officials were unable to
access Mr. Celil and we urge immediate access to him."


Xinhua said it was not known whether Celil would appeal.


According to Canadian news reports, Celil was extradited from
Uzbekistan to China in May last year where he vanished into
Chinese custody. Canadian diplomats have since been trying to
gain access to him.


Celil fled China a decade ago and arrived in Canada in 2001 as a
refugee and became a Canadian citizen, the reports said. Xinhua
gave his age as 37.


He was arrested in Tashkent on March 27 last year while trying to
renew a visitor's visa in the Uzbek capital.


His wife and three of his six children live in Burlington,
Ontario. A friend told a local newspaper Cecil was in Uzbekistan
to try to get his three other children out of China.


His sentencing comes after Beijing on Tuesday sentenced the son
of exiled Uighur nationalist and Nobel Peace Prize nominee Rebiya
Kadeer to nine years in prison for secessionist activities.


Ablikim Abdiriyim was sentenced by an intermediate court in
Urumqi, Xinhua reported.

