

The US Supreme Court weighed Wednesday the fate of a
schizophrenic Texan condemned to death, a case it could use to
define the limits of its 1986 decision barring execution of the
mentally ill.


In September 1992, Scott Panetti fatally shot his in-laws in
front of his estranged wife, who had recently left him and taken
their three-year-old daughter.


Panetti, who had a history of hospitalizations for serious
schizophrenia, was considered fit to stand trial for the murders.


At his trial, the judge agreed to Panetti's demand that he
represent himself, despite the protests of even the prosecution.


The defendant appeared in court dressed like a cowboy, and said
he was calling witnesses to testify such as Jesus Christ, the
late president John Kennedy and then-pope John Paul II. He often
launched into delirious and incomprehensible monologues.


Panetti was found guilty and sentenced to death. Since then, his
lawyers have been trying to save him from execution, arguing that
the Supreme Court's 1986 decision that the US Constitution only
allows the execution of someone who is aware of his or her
impending death and the reason for it.


Panetti is aware he killed his wife's parents. He also knows that
he is to be executed. But experts on both sides of the case say
he believes he is facing execution because he preaches the Gospel
during his imprisonment and that the state of Texas is using his
crime as a pretext to kill him.


The high court justices, who agreed to accept the case in
January, have discovered in recent weeks some technical issues
that may prevent them from ruling on the case. Their decision is
expected before July.

