

Survivors of a horrific industrial accident in northeast China
Thursday recounted the gruesome scene at their factory when 26
tonnes of molten steel poured into a meeting room, killing 32
workers.


A steel ladle sheared off a blast furnace, sending liquid metal
into the room and engulfing workers with molten metal as they
prepared for their shift Wednesday morning.


"All those boys are gone, only the guys that were just about to
get off work were lucky enough to escape," the Beijing News
quoted survivor Jiao Zhengyan as saying.


"The molten steel is 1,500 Centigrade (2,732 degrees Fahrenheit)
as it hits the ground and spills all over, the heat wave rushes
over you and your clothes burn off. I didn't have time to think
about it, I just ran to save my life."


The accident happened at Qinghe Special Steel Corp, a relatively
modern facility in China's former industrial heartland in
Liaoning province.


Six other workers were injured in the accident with one suffering
burns over 60 percent of his body.


Those killed in the accident were burnt beyond recognition, and
authorities said they would have to use DNA testing to identify
the victims.


"Right after the accident, I went to the scene, but there was no
one in the room, they had all been consumed by the steel,"
another unidentified worker at the factory told the New Express
daily. "All that was in the room was a 70 -square-meter block of
steel."


Worker Jiao said he was near the ladle when an apparent brake
failure on the ladle's crane sent the bucket of molten crashing
into a platform car and spilling into the room were the victims
were.


"It hit a platform car and then started spilling molten steel in
the direction of the shift transfer room where they were having
their safety meeting. That was the most tragic moment," said
Jiao, 38.

