

The UN Security Council is likely to lift its embargo on
Liberia's diamond exports soon in light of progress made by the
west African country in certifying the origin of its rough
diamonds, diplomats said Wednesday.


"The United States has just introduced a resolution today and the
experts will look at it today and we expect this resolution to be
passed as soon as possible," South Africa's UN envoy Dumisani
Kumalo told reporters.


"I think there's a prevailing view that what we want to do is
encourage the government in Liberia in all the steps that it's
taking positively, provided the Kimberley process is actually
being applied now rigorously, that we should actually lift the
remaining sanctions," his British counterpart and current council
president, Emyr Jones Parry, said.


The UN-backed Kimberley process, which groups 43 countries and
international organizations, was set up in May 2000 to prevent
illegally exported "conflict diamonds" being used to buy arms.


Members of the group have agreed to a certificate system designed
to identify the origin of diamonds and guarantee that they are
legally exported.


The US draft would lift the diamond embargo and urge "the
Kimberley Process to report in 90 days to the council on
Liberia's application to the Kimberly Process".


Jones Parry said he expected the US draft to be adopted by the
15-member council before the end of the month.


Under Kimberley, rough diamonds are sealed in tamper-resistant
containers and required to have forgery-resistant, conflict-free
certificates with unique serial numbers each time they cross an
international border.


Last December, the Security Council renewed sanctions against
Liberia barring trade in diamonds and arms as well as targeting
individual Liberians.


While the council then welcomed progress by the Liberian
government since January 2006 to reconstruct the war-torn country
and cooperate with the international effort to monitor the
diamond trade, it said the situation still posed a threat to
peace and security in the region.


Trafficking in illegal diamonds is considered one of the root
causes of the back-to-back civil wars in Liberia since 1989 as
well as of the 10-year brutal conflict in neighboring Sierra
Leone that ended in 2001.

