

The New York Rangers swept the Atlanta Thrashers out of the
National Hockey League playoffs on Wednesday with a 4-2 victory
in their Eastern Conference first-round series.


Matt Cullen snapped a tie 2:06 into the third period to boost the
Rangers, who went on to complete a 4-0 victory in the best-of-
seven series.


Defenseman Michal Rozsival, Brendan Shanahan and captain Jaromir
Jagr also scored for the sixth-seeded Rangers, who recorded their
first playoff series sweep since eliminating the New York
Islanders in four games in the 1994 conference quarter-finals.
The Rangers went on to win the Stanley Cup, ending a 53-year
championship drought.


Coming off a 7-0 rout in game three on Tuesday, the Rangers fell
behind just over 6 1/2 minutes into this one.


But Rozsival knotted the contest just 79 seconds later, and
Shanahan erased a 2-1 deficit late in the second period with his
third goal of the postseason.


After receiving a long backhand pass from defenseman Thomas Pock
early in the third, Cullen crossed the Thrashers blue line and
unleashed a slap shot.  The puck hit the crossbar and dropped
just inside the net, but play continued as the referees did not
signal a goal.


At the next stoppage, video replay officials examined the play.
After a long delay, Cullen was awarded his first tally of the
playoffs, giving the Rangers a 3-2 edge.


Jagr sealed the win with an empty-netter and Henrik Lundqvist
made 24 saves for the Rangers, who won their first playoff series
since 1997.


Keith Tkachuk and defenseman Greg de Vries scored for the
Thrashers, who had qualified for the postseason for the first
time since joining the NHL in 1999-2000.

