

Boo Weekley, who captured his first career PGA Tour title in a
dramatic weather- delayed finale at Hilton Head on Monday, won't
waste any time getting back in action.


Weekley, who jumped from 115th to 55th in the world rankings with
his one-shot victory over Ernie Els in the Heritage, will get a
chance to build on that triumph  in the 6.1 million-dollar Zurich
Classic of New Orleans that starts Thursday at the TPC Louisiana.


With stars such as Tiger Woods, Phil Mickelson and Els out of the
picture this week, David Toms is the highest-ranked player in the
field at No. 19 in the world.


Toms, a Louisiana native, won this event in 2001 and went on to
win the PGA Championship later that year.


He'd like nothing better than to repeat that scenario, and give a
home win to local fans in an area still battling to recover from
the devastation of Hurricane Katrina.


The TPC Louisiana course was so torn up by the storm that the
tournament was held last year at it's old home of English Turn
Golf and Country Club.


Chris Couch was the surprise winner, but has struggled this
season. He missed the cut in five of his 10 starts this season,
including at the Heritage last week.


Tim Petrovic, who won the event in a playoff when it was held at
this Pete Dye- designed venue in 2005, is also in the field.


Also on tap is Fred Funk, who boasts a victory on both the PGA
and Champions Tours this season - joining Craig Stadler as the
only players to accomplish that feat.


American Chris DiMarco arrives seeking to turn around a run of
disappointing play. He missed the cut at both the Masters and
Heritage, his first consecutive missed cuts since August of last
season.

