

The Golden State Warriors seized the final National Basketball
Association playoff berth on Wednesday with a victory over
Portland on the last night of the regular season.


Baron Davis collected 12 points, 14 assists and 10 rebounds and
Stephen Jackson added 31 points as the Warriors clinched their
first playoff berth in 13 years with a 120-98 triumph.


Jason Richardson scored 25 points and Al Harrington added 24 for
the Warriors, who won 19 of their last 21 games.


Their victory ended the hopes of the Los Angeles Clippers, who
closed the season with an 83-86 loss to New Orleans.


"Nobody expected us to be in the playoffs," Davis said. "But we
are here and we don't plan on leaving without a fight," Davis
said.


The Warriors will face league-leading Dallas in the first round
starting this weekend.


The Mavericks closed out the season with their 67th victory - a
106-75 rout of Seattle.


"We have earned the right to be confident going into the
playoffs," Nowitzki said. "We are confident and know that we can
beat pretty much anybody."


"(Dallas is) the best team in the NBA and has an MVP candidate in
Dirk Nowitzki," Golden State's Richardson said. "We've had them
on our minds. They are going to be ready for us. We beat them
three times this year and a couple times last year.


"But the playoffs are different. Teams are going to take away
what you do real good, so it won't be no walk in the park."


In Sacramento, superstar Kobe Bryant collected 34 points and
seven rebounds as the Lakers posted a 117-106 triumph over the
Kings to capture seventh place in the West and set up a first-
round rematch with second-seeded Phoenix.


"We're 1-3 against them this season, not great," Lakers coach
Phil Jackson said. "But we feel comfortable about playing them,
we think we know how to play them."


Bryant became the first player since Tracy McGrady to win back-
to-back scoring titles and finished with the most 50-point games
(10) since Hall of Famer Wilt Chamberlain's 45 during the 1961-62
campaign.


The Utah Jazz posted a 101-91 victory over the Houston Rockets
that they hope was a preview of their first-round playoff series.


While the Jazz secured the fourth seed in the Western Conference
with the Northwest Division title, the Rockets clinched home-
court advantage in the first round by notching the fourth-best
record.


In San Antonio, the Denver Nuggets closed out the regular season
with a 100-77 road victory over the Spurs - in a warm-up for
their first-round playoff series.


Reggie Evans scored 19 points and grabbed 20 rebounds for the
Nuggets, who will be back in Texas on Sunday as the sixth seed in
the Western Conference when they open a first-round playoff
series against third-seeded San Antonio.


In the East, Vince Carter lifted the New Jersey Nets to a 106-97
victory over Chicago that denied the Bulls the second seed in the
conference.


Carter collected 24 points, 10 rebounds and nine assists and
Mikki Moore had 22 points and nine rebounds as the Nets secured
the sixth seed in the East.


They booked a first-round series with Carter's former team,
Toronto, while the Bulls, who fell to the the No. 5 seed, will
play the defending NBA champion Miami Heat.


"The seeding came down to this one game, and we didn't play very
well," Chicago coach Scott Skiles said. "Now we have to get in
the gym, get to work and get ready for Miami."


Bulls guard Kirk Hinrich knew the team had made their first round
task more difficult.


"Same team we played in the first round last year and a team
we're pretty familiar with," Hinrich said. They have so many
weapons and so much experience, it's going to be a tough series."


The Cavaliers, who closed the season with a rout of lowly
Milwaukee, claimed the second seed and will face Washington in a
rematch of last season's first-round series that went seven
games.


Antawn Jamison scored 19 points to lead six players in double
figures as the Wizards booked the No. 7 seed with a 98-95 triumph
over Indiana.


The Wizards, who are without injured All-Stars Gilbert Arenas and
Caron Butler, nevertheless hope the postseason will see a
turnaround in their recent fortunes. They lost eight of their
last 12 games.


The Detroit Pistons, already assured of the top seed in the East,
finished the season with a 91-89 win over Boston and will face
Orlando, who defeated Miami - who rested stars Shaquille O'Neal
and Dwyane Wade - 94-68.

