

A former Algerian air force lieutenant who spent nearly five
years in US custody after an alleged bungled asylum bid in Canada
called Wednesday for an inquiry to explain his ordeal.


"Why was I singled out? I want some answers. I just can't live
like this. I want to get over this but I need some answers,"
Benamar Benatta, 32, told reporters.


Flanked by representatives of the Canadian Arab Federation,
Amnesty International, the Canadian Council on American-Islamic
Relations, and the Canadian Council for Refugees, his lawyer
Nicole Chrolavicius said at a news conference a letter was sent
to Prime Minister Stephen Harper to ask for a review of his case.


According to reports, the government said Benatta voluntarily
went to the United States. A spokesman for the prime minister was
not immediately available to comment.


Benatta said he was detained by Canadian border guards days
before the September 11, 2001 attacks that killed some 3,000
people in New York, Washington and Pennsylvania, when he tried to
defect from Algeria.


He had arrived in Canada with an expired visa.


On September 12, 2001 two officers drove him across the border
and handed him over to US authorities without explanation, he
said.


While in US custody, he claimed he was "beaten, humiliated and
tortured" at detention centers in Buffalo and Brooklyn, in New
York state, despite being cleared of terrorism links by the US
Federal Bureau of Investigation in November 2001.


In July 2006, the former aviation electronics engineer was
finally released and allowed to return to Canada to renew his
refugee claim, he said.

