

Australian rugby's embattled chief executive Gary Flowers
announced Thursday that he would step down next month instead of
carrying on through the World Cup until the end of the year.


Flowers, who last week declared his intention to resign when his
contract expires on December 31, said that he had scrapped his
plan to continue until a replacement was found, and would stand
aside on May 11.


His position had become untenable after a chorus of calls for an
immediate departure, with rugby figures such as former Wallabies
coach Eddie Jones saying the code could not afford a "lame duck"
leader in a World Cup year.


"I was committed to overseeing an orderly transition," Flowers
said in a statement issued by the Australian Rugby Union (ARU).


"However, I no longer consider that smooth transition to be
possible. While it is disappointing, I believe it is in the best
interests of the game and for me personally."


The ARU said Flowers offered his resignation to the
organisation's board on Wednesday night and it had been accepted.
The board is to elect a new chairman Thursday and will consider
Flowers' successor.


"My fervent hope now is that the rugby community gets behind the
new chairman and my successor," Flowers said Thursday.


Earlier this week he said his replacement would have to be
"strong-minded and pretty resilient" to cope with the internal
wrangling in Australian rugby circles.


Former Wallabies captains Simon Poidevin, Nick Farr-Jones and
John Eales have called for Flowers' predecessor, John O'Neill, to
return to the position he left in 2004.


O'Neill complained he was forced out by the game's internal
bickering and went on to successfully manage Australian football
until last year.


He no longer holds a senior sporting position and has not ruled
out a return to rugby.

