

Upbeat earnings news helped power the leading Dow Jones
Industrial Average to a record closing high Wednesday as the blue
chip index climbed above 12,800 for the first time.


The benchmark Dow index rose 30.80 points (0.24 percent) to
12,803.84, bursting its prior all-time closing high of 12,786.64
which was struck on February 20.


The broad-market Standard and Poor's 500 index finished up 1.02
points (0.07 percent) at 1,472.50, but technology stocks did not
fare so well.


The tech-rich Nasdaq composite index closed down 6.45 points
(0.26 percent) at 2,510.50.


Analysts said a better-than-forecast first quarter profit report
from Wall Street banking titan JPMorgan Chase had helped boost
the Dow. JPMorgan Chase said its quarterly profits ballooned 55
percent to 4.8 billion dollars.


Conglomerate United Technologies' profit report also bested Wall
Street's expectations, further lifting investor sentiment.


Slower earnings from Internet-search giant Yahoo, however,
weighed down the Nasdaq market.


"Bank stocks were among today's leaders," said Al Goldman, a
chief equity strategist at A.G. Edwards.


The Dow has climbed markedly in the past week as the first
quarter earnings season has kicked off with results so far
cheering investors despite lingering concerns about the slowing
US economy and a housing slump.


Some market participants expressed caution, however.


"Even though the market is jumping over the earnings, the
earnings have been pretty decent so far, it's still very early in
the season, the market has extended itself," said Marc Pado, an
analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald:


JPMorgan Chase, which is vying to expand its US retail presence,
also reported that its revenues swelled 25 percent to almost 19
billion dollars.


The bank also reported earnings per share of 1.34 dollars,
notably stronger than the 1.02 dollars anticipated by most Wall
Street analysts.


The firm's shares closed up almost four percent at 52.07 dollars.
Rival Citigroup ended up 46 cents at 52.9 dollars while Bank of
America's shares gained 52 cents to 51.82 dollars.


United Technologies, which owns Pratt & Whitney aircraft
engines and the Otis elevator company among other assets, also
saw its shares rise after reporting improved profits and amid the
wider market gains.


Its shares finished up 74 cents at 66.92 dollars.


The news was not so upbeat for Internet bellwether Yahoo which
said its first quarter net profits slowed just over 11 percent to
142.4 million dollars, mainly as operating costs spiked.


Soaring marketing and administration expenses acted as a drag on
Yahoo's revenues, executives said. The firm's Nasdaq-listed
shares slumped 3.78 dollars, or 11.8 percent, to 28.31 dollars.


Bond prices rose. The yield on the 10-year US Treasury bond fell
to 4.654 percent from 4.688 percent and that on the 30-year bond
dropped to 4.819 percent against 4.847 percent. Bond yields and
prices move in opposite directions.

