

Colombia's Supreme Court announced Wednesday it was investigating
the president of the House of Representatives and two other
lawmakers for alleged links with right-wing paramilitary squads.


The announcement followed the arrest earlier this year of eight
lawmakers from parties in President Alvaro Uribe's governing
coalition. Another accused lawmaker is on the lam.


The head of the Supreme Court, Alfredo Gomez, told journalists
that House of Representatives President Alfredo Cuello and two of
his colleagues were being investigated for possible links with
the paramilitary United Self-Defense Forces of Colombia (AUC,)
which the United States considers a terrorist organization.


Gomez said investigations were at a "preliminary" stage.


The announcement came as a further embarrassment for Uribe, who
has repeatedly fought off claims linking him to the paramilitary
forces when he was governor of Antioquia province in the 1990s.


Leftist Senator Gustavo Petro on Tuesday also pointed to Uribe's
brother, Santiago, showing lawmakers a picture in which he
appeared with a drug kingpin, and reading testimony linking him
to the AUC.


Santiago Uribe responded by telling a local radio station the
documents "do not amount to any kind of proof."


Petro also claimed ranches owned by the Uribe family were used
for meetings by paramilitary leaders in the 1990s.


Colombia's paramilitary groups were organized as private armies
in the 1980s, ostensibly to protect landholders from leftist
guerrillas, but were later accused of numerous massacres of
civilians suspected of leftist sympathies, and of involvement in
drug trafficking.


The AUC officially demobilized the last of its 30,000 fighters in
April in a deal that guaranteed prison terms of no more than
eight years.

