

Ten Balkan military chiefs met Wednesday in the northern Greek
city of Salonika in a rare security summit hailed as proof that
the region is finally leaving its war-torn past behind.


"This is a day of historic importance," said Greek Defence
Minister Vangelis Meimarakis.


"We can say that Europe, and the Balkans in particular, have been
freed of a heavy legacy... but although the Balkans may no longer
be considered the tinderbox of Europe, the region requires
particular attention as the situation remains fluid," he added.


The Balkans have seen a succession of wars in the last 150 years,
none more bloody than the four-year war that split Yugoslavia in
the early 1990's.


The security cooperation summit brought together military chiefs
from Albania, Bosnia-Hercegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Greece,
Montenegro, Romania, Serbia, the Former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia and Turkey.


The military chiefs of regional rivals Greece and Turkey, Admiral
Panagiotis Hinofotis and General Yasar Buyukanit, were also
scheduled to hold talks.


Buyukanit surprised the Greek hosts upon his arrival on Tuesday
by reiterating an older proposal for unarmed flights by Greek and
Turkish warplanes in Aegean Sea airspace disputed by the two
neighbours.


But no breakthrough came on Wednesday, with both armed forces
leaders sticking to their countries' respective positions at a
press conference.


Despite a significant thaw in their ties in recent years, Turkey
and Greece remain at odds over territorial rights in the Aegean
and often accuse each other of violations.


Greece maintains that its airspace extends 10 miles around its
coastline, but Turkey recognizes only six miles.

