

Iraq's oil reserves could be almost twice as vast as current
estimates, and its production could also double in five years, a
report from consultancy IHS has showed, the Financial Times
reported on Thursday.


According to the business daily, the report, which it said was
the most comprehensive independent survey of Iraq's resources
since the US-led invasion of the country in March 2003, noted
that such developments were dependent on an improving security
situation in the Middle Eastern country.


"Obviously the security situation is very bad, but when you look
at the sub- surface opportunity, there isn't anywhere like this,"
Ron Mobed, the head of IHS's energy division, was quoted as
saying by the FT.


"Geologically, it's right up there, a gold star opportunity."


Doubling Iraq's oil reserves would mean an increase of 100
billion barrels of oil, which would make it the second-biggest
source of oil reserves in the world, after Saudi Arabia and ahead
of Iran, the FT said. Iraq is currently third on that list with
116 billion barrels of reserves.


IHS also said that Iraq could double its current rate of
production in five years to four million barrels of oil a day, if
international investment into Iraq increases.


The consultancy's study of Iraq's oil reserves is based on data
collected before and after the 2003 invasion, and its prediction
of an additional 100 billion barrels of oil there is based on an
analysis of geological surveys.


It is all dependent on improved security in the country, and that
has been slow in coming -- an avalanche of car bomb attacks on
Shiite districts of Baghdad slaughtered 190 people on Wednesday.

