

A leading Chinese official criticised mine operators for covering
up accidents after a spate of tragedies left 64 people dead or
missing this week.


"Those responsible for industrial safety have sabotaged the
(accident) scenes, destroyed incriminating evidence and removed
the bodies," said Li Yizhong, head of the State Administration of
Work Safety.


"Those responsible have covered up the accidents and refused to
report them," he said in a speech Wednesday which was posted on
the administration's website.


Li said his agency has discovered at least 12 accident cover-ups
in the first quarter of the year, while mine bosses this week
fled the scene after numerous fatal explosions and floods.


China has been in a constant battle with operators who forego
safety procedures, reaping huge profits as the demand for energy
has sky-rocketed amid an economic boom.


In the most recent accident, 11 miners were killed and six were
missing after a blast early Thursday in Handan city in northern
Hebei province, Xinhua news agency reported.


Meanwhile the fate of 47 miners trapped in three mine accidents
that occurred Monday -- one explosion, one flood and one mine
collapse -- remained unknown.


Four other mining mishaps occurred from March 18 to 29, killing
72 people in total, with 41 percent of the fatalities in mines
operating illegally, Li said. lamented.


China's coal mines are regarded as the most dangerous in the
world, with 4,746 workers dying in 2,845 accidents last year,
according to official figures. Independent groups put the death
toll at up to 20,000 annually.

