

Hong Kong share prices finished the Thursday morning session
sharply lower, losing 1.95 percent lower as investors locked in
profits after falls on the Japanese and China markets, dealers
said.


They said China-related stocks led the downturn on fears that the
mainland's A-share markets may be in for a big correction after
hitting new highs repeatedly in recent sessions.


They added that speculation regarding another interest rate hike
in China also weighed on sentiment as investors braced for what
is expected to be very strong Chinese first quarter growth
figures.


The Hang Seng Index ended the morning down 404.71 points at
20,372.38, off a low of 20,334.15 and a high of 20,634.90.
Turnover was a heavy 35.62 billion dollars (4.6 billion US).


"The market saw strong profit-taking pressure after a weak
showing in China stock markets as well as on the Tokyo bourse,"
said Peter Lai, sales director at DBS Vickers.


"Blue chips and China-related stocks were hit strongly after
recent sharp gains."


Lai said there were worries that macro-economic data to be
released in China later Thursday might spur mainland authorities
to take new credit-tightening measures including an interest rate
hike.


"I expect a further correction ... and the benchmark index will
likely drop back to 20,000-points," he said, but added that he
remains positive on the outlook and expects the market to set new
records next quarter.


The Hang Seng China Enterprises index ended the morning down
314.65 points or 3.04 percent at 10,046.75.

