

General Motors is expecting its China sales to top one million
vehicles this year after an encouraging first-quarter performance
on strong passenger car demand, state media said Thursday.


"We expect our sales this year in China to surpass one million
units for the first time," said Kevin Wale, Detroit-based General
Motor's China chief, according to the China Daily.


If that is realised, GM will become the first foreign car maker
to hit the one- million mark in the world's second largest
vehicle market since China allowed overseas companies to assemble
cars locally in the early 1980s.


In the first three months of the year, the US car maker sold
291,588 vehicles in China, up 25 percent from a year earlier. It
operates in China through a series of joint ventures.


Wale said GM, struggling in its home market, will continue to
invest one billion dollars in China each year through 2010 to
expand production facilities, engineering and design capability,
and new products.


This year the company will introduce seven new and upgraded
models in China, he added.


Wale predicted that China's vehicle market will grow at a double-
digit pace this year boosted by strong passenger car demand.


Sales of China-made vehicles in the first quarter rose by 22.2
percent to 2.12 million, with passenger car sales jumping 28.5
percent to 1.25 million, the China Daily report said.


"No other vehicle market is expected to experience the growth of
China over the next decade," Wale said. "As a result, GM believes
we must be a leader in China in order to remain a global
automotive industry leader."


Last year, there were 7.22 million vehicles sold in China, up
more than 25 percent from 2005, and GM ranked top with 876,747
vehicles.

