

The Ottawa Senators advanced to the second round of the Stanley
Cup playoffs on Thursday with a win over Pittsburgh, bringing
Sidney Crosby's first National Hockey League postseason to a
disappointing end.


Antoine Vermette and Chris Kelly each had a goal and an assist
and Ray Emery made 20 saves as the Senators wrapped up their
Eastern Conference first-round series against the Penguins with a
3-0 victory in game five.


Dany Heatley also scored for the fourth-seeded Senators, whose
second-round opponent has yet to be determined.


Crosby, the face of the new NHL, became the youngest player in
league history to win the Art Ross Trophy this season, collecting
120 points in 79 games.


The 19-year-old superstar recorded three goals - including the
winner in game two - and two assists in this series, but it was
not enough for the Penguins to overcome the Senators' tremendous
advantage in playoff experience.


The Penguins, who had 14 players in its lineup making their
postseason debuts, failed to cash in on three power-play
opportunities in the first period in this one, including a pair
of abbreviated 5-on-3 advantages in the game's first four
minutes.


Ottawa went 0-for-2 with the extra skater in the opening session
but cashed in during a chance early in the second to snap a
scoreless tie.


The only Senator to appear in each of the team's 84 playoff
games, captain Daniel Alfredsson made a pass from behind the net
to Heatley, who knocked the puck past goaltender Marc-Andre
Fleury 68 seconds into the period for a 1-0 lead.


It proved to be all the offensive support needed by Emery, who
turned aside nine shots in the first session, six in the second
and five in the third for his first career postseason shutout.
The 24-year-old recorded five blankings during the regular
season.


Vermette doubled the Senators' lead at 6:20 of the second and
Kelly netted his third goal of the series late in the period for
a 3-0 advantage.

