

Japan's top auto company, Toyota Motor Corp. is expected to
report a record operating profit of 2.25 trillion yen (19 billion
dollars) for the year to March, up 20 percent, a report said
Friday.


The figure marks the seventh consecutive year of record profits
on the back of brisk shipments overseas, particularly in North
America, as well as a weak yen, the Nikkei business daily
reported, without citing sources.


Sales for the fiscal year are estimated at nearly 24 trillion
yen, up roughly 10 percent, the newspaper said.


Despite recent increases in material costs, Japan's largest auto
maker also expects growing profits in the year ending March 2008,
the daily said.


Toyota's current forecasts for the year to March 2007 are a net
profit of 1.55 trillion yen and an operating profit of 2.20
trillion yen on revenue of 23.2 trillion yen.


Although shipments were sluggish domestically as well as in
Indonesia and some other parts of Asia, they remained robust in
the key US and European markets, the Nikkei said.


In North America, the company's largest market, sales of the
Camry sedan and Prius hybrid-electric grew strongly, it said,
adding that in Europe, the Yaris subcompact and the RAV4 sports
utility vehicle also sold well.


While rising prices of steel, copper and other raw materials
thwarted the company's efforts to slash production costs, foreign
exchange gains, estimated at 200 billion yen, offset rising
costs, it said.


Toyota is poised this year to overtake ailing US-based General
Motors as the world's largest automaker by sales, helped by solid
demand for compact cars and small sport utility vehicles in the
United States amid higher petrol prices.

