

The former chief executive of US telecoms giant Qwest
Communications International, Joseph Nacchio, was on Thursday
found guilty of insider trading by a federal court in Denver.


Nacchio, 57, who was ousted from the regional telephone company
in 2002, was convicted on 19 of 42 counts of insider trading
arising from the sale of 2.5 million shares in early 2001.


"This is a message for every citizen that you have to play by the
rules," lead prosecutor Cliff Stricklin told reporters shortly
after the verdicts were announced following a three-and-a-half
week trial in this Colorado city.


Prosecutors had alleged Nacchio sold 100.8 million dollars worth
of Qwest stock, despite knowing the company would have trouble
reaching a five-year plan to grow revenues by between 15 percent
and 17 percent per year.


But rather than telling investors about the internal doubts over
the projections, prosecutors said Nacchio kept reiterating that
the company was sticking by its revenue targets.


When Qwest's share prices later plummeted, thousands of
shareholders -- including many current and former employees --
lost money, in some cases their entire retirement savings.


Qwest stock prices had soared during the late 1990s tech boom,
going as high as 64.5 dollars per unit at one point. Following
Nacchio's departure in 2002 they sunk to a low of 1.11 dollars.


The 19 guilty verdicts were related to the sale of around 50
million dollars in stock during April 2001 and covered a four-day
period where Nacchio offloaded one third of his shares after the
company had reported its first quarter results.


Each count of insider trading carries a maximum sentence of 10
years in prison and a one million dollar fine. Prosecutors have
also said they will seek to recover the proceeds of the
fraudulent share sales.


Sentencing has been set for July 27.


"Joseph Nacchio was an insider who knew, unlike the investing
public, that Qwest was in dire financial straits," said assistant
attorney general Alice Fisher in a statement.


"Nacchio abused his position of trust and illegally used this
inside information to sell off more than 100 million worth of
Qwest stock -- something no other Qwest shareholder could do,"
she added.


Nacchio's defense team said the former chief executive had
unloaded many of the shares because the board of directors had
forced him to exercise valuable stock options before they
expired.


Lawyer Herbert Stern also told the court that Nacchio, who did
not testify during the trial, had "passionately, honestly and
fervently" believed in the company's publicly stated financial
projections.

