

Ireland's World Cup squad have supplied statements to police
investigating the murder of Pakistan coach Bob Woolmer.


These were carried out Thursday at the team's hotel in Grenada
following Ireland's final World Cup Super Eights match against
Sri Lanka on Wednesday.


Debutants Ireland caused one of the major upsets of this World
Cup when they beat Pakistan by three wickets in Jamaica on March
17, knocking the 1992 champions out at the first group stage.


Woolmer was found unconscious in his hotel room in Kingston the
following morning.


"We can confirm that the Ireland squad have supplied statements,
fingerprints and DNA samples as part of the ongoing police
investigation into the murder of Bob Woolmer," said a statement
issued by team officials on Thursday.


"These were carried out today at the team hotel in Grenada. The
Ireland management and players have co-operated fully with the
police, and are happy to assist them in any way we can during the
course of their investigation.


"These tests were carried out with a view to eliminating the
Ireland squad from their enquiries."


The statement added: "We would like to stress that on the evening
of the Woolmer murder, no member of the Irish squad were actually
in the hotel, as they were attending a celebration St Patrick's
Day party in Ocho Rios, some 50 miles away.


"The team didn't return until the late evening of Sunday, March
18."


Two days after Woolmer died, Jamaica police announced his death
was being treated as suspicious.


Police subsequently said they believed they had evidence to
suggest the 58-year- old former England international had been
strangled.

