

Cambodia was assigned its first sovereign debt rating of B+ by
the credit rating agency Standard and Poor's, which said the
country's outlook was "stable" but that it still required
continued donor aid.


The B+ rating is below investment grade status, restricting many
institutional investors, but it is the first step in the
impoverished country's bid for economic legitimacy.


"The stable outlook is predicated on the expectation that policy
continuity, including market-oriented reforms, and a prudent
macroeconomic setting will prevail after the 2008 elections," S
and P said in a research note obtained by AFP Friday.


But "Cambodia requires continued donor assistance to maintain
domestic solvency and to meet its development needs," it added.


Cambodia receives an average of 600 million US dollars -- more
than half of its national budget -- from foreign donors each
year.


Cambodia's high public debt and narrow economic base were the
main reasons behind the rating, S and P said.


The country also suffers from its limited ability to collect
revenues.


"General government revenues of 12.3 percent of GDP, and a tax
revenue component at just over 8 percent of GDP, are the lowest
among rated sovereigns in the Asia-Pacific region," it said.


But the agency noted that these factors were balanced by the
country's strong recent economic growth.


S and P said political stability and liberal economic and trade
policies had translated into real GDP growth of an average of 9.0
percent between 2000 and 2006.


"In the medium term, foreign investment in tourism, and
particularly in hydrocarbon extraction, will support private
consumption and help maintain growth rates of 7.0-8.0 percent,"
it said.


The country is bracing itself for a huge influx of wealth from
the hundreds of millions of barrels of oil recently discovered
off its coast.


But these revenues remain only a "medium-term prospect," S and P
said.


The ratings outlook could improve if there is increased effort to
address investment deterrents, and more revenue-raising measures
are implemented, it added.

