

Two Italian Renaissance masterpieces which had been missing since
the 19th century fetched 1.7 million pounds (2.5 million euros,
3.4 million dollars) at an auction in southwest England on
Thursday.


The two works of art, painted by an Italian monk known as Fra
Angelico in 1439, were only found late last year after the
pensioner who bought the pair for 200 pounds in the 1960s, and
had little inkling of their significance, showed them to an art
historian.


According to Duke's auction house in Dorchester, Dorset, the
winning bidder was an anonymous European buyer, who beat out the
Italian government, which had hoped to take the paintings back to
Italy.


The two small portraits of saints are the missing panels from the
altarpiece of the church and convent of San Marco in Florence,
central Italy.


Broken up during the Napoleonic wars, six of the eight paintings
that surrounded the main panel had been found and the whereabouts
of the last two has been described as one of art's greatest
mysteries.


They were found in November at the home of retired academic Jean
Preston in Oxford, southern England, hanging behind a door in a
spare room.


Preston died last year aged 77, having only recently discovered
the paintings' importance.


Michael Liversidge, a family friend and former head of the
History of Art department at the University of Bristol, southwest
England, identified the masterpieces, which measure 15 inches by
five inches (38 centimetres by 13 centimetres).


Preston was a curator at a museum in Huntington, California in
the early 1960s when she bought the pair of paintings for no more
than 200 pounds.


"To put it in a nutshell we are dealing with two works of art
painted by one of the greats, intended for his own church and
commissioned by one of the greatest art patrons in history," said
Guy Schwinge, spokesman for Duke's.


"It simply does not get much better than that."

