

A 12-member jury was on Thursday chosen to hear the murder trial
of legendary music producer Phil Spector, which is expected to
get underway in earnest next week.


Nine men and three women will sit on the jury panel, which was
selected after four days of questioning by prosecution and
defense lawyers at the Los Angeles Superior Court.


Spector, 67, is accused of shooting dead B-movie actress Lana
Clarkson at his castle-like home in Los Angeles on February 3,
2003.


The case is the highest-profile celebrity trial in Los Angeles
since O.J Simpson was acquitted of murder in 1995.


Six alternate jurors will be selected on Monday with Judge Larry
Paul Fidler estimating that opening statements may get underway
on Wednesday.


Prosecutors say Spector, famed for his work with The Beatles,
Tina Turner, The Righteous Brothers, The Ronettes and the
Ramones, killed Clarkson hours after meeting her for the first
time at the Hollywood night club where she worked as a hostess.


Spector is regarded as one of the most influential figures in pop
music history. In the early 1960s he produced hits including "Da
Doo Ron Ron," "Then He Kissed Me," "Be My Baby, Baby" and "You've
Lost That Lovin' Feelin."


Spector, who denies committing the murder, is alleged to have
told police officers who arrived at his imposing mock chateau
immediately after the shooting: "I didn't mean to shoot her."


A few weeks before the shooting, Spector described himself as
"relatively insane" and tortured by "devils inside me." He told
Esquire magazine in 2003 that Clarkson shot herself. "She kissed
the gun," said Spector.


Clarkson starred in movies such as 1987's "Amazon Women on the
Moon" and 1991's "The Haunting of Morella" but her career had
stalled at the time of her death.

