

A 28-year-old American man pleaded guilty Thursday to being
trained by foreign terrorists to fight a "jihad" alongside Al-
Qaeda operatives in Somalia, authorities said.


Daniel Joseph Maldonado, also known as Daniel Aljughaifi,
admitted to a court in Houston that he traveled from the Texas
city to Africa in late 2005 and was in Somalia in December 2006
to join the Islamic Courts Union (ICU) and Al-Qaeda elements to
establish an Islamic state.


Maldonado was given an AK-47 assault rifle as well as military
combat uniforms and boots while in Somalia, authorities said.


He participated in camps in Kismaayo and Jilib that included
physical fitness exercises as well as training in firearms and
explosives, "all in preparation to go to the front to fight for
the ICU" againt Somalia's transitional government, the Justice
Department said in a statement.


Al-Qaeda members were at the camps, it said.


"ICU and Al-Qaeda, a recognized foreign terrorist organization,
worked together to train fighters in the camps to fight jihad to
establish an independent Islamic state in Somalia," it said.


Maldonado was captured by Kenya's military on January 21 as he
fled from Ethiopian and Somali forces who routed the powerful
Islamist movement from southern and central Somalia that same
month.


He was handed to US authorities in February and has since been
held without bond.


US District Judge Gray Miller, who presided over Maldonado's
hearing and convicted him, set sentencing for June 29. A
conviction for receiving training from a foreign terrorist
organization carries a maximum 10-year prison sentence without
parole and a 250,000-dollar fine.

