

West Indies captain Brian Lara said he will quit international
cricket on Saturday, ending speculation over his future after his
team's dismal World Cup campaign.


"I have given this extensive consideration. I just want everybody
to know that on Saturday I am bidding farewell to international
cricket as a player," Lara said after his team's 99-run win over
Bangladesh in a Super Eights game here on Thursday.


"I have already spoken to the board and my players."


The announcement means Lara has also retired from Test cricket
and will not be part of the West Indies team for next month's
tour of England.


The 37-year-old played 131 Tests, scoring 11,953 runs with 34
centuries.


He holds the world record Test score of 400 not out.


Lara has also played 298 one-day internationals, scoring 10,387
runs.


"I want to be remembered as a batsman who provided entertainment
to the fans and in adversity tried my best to perform."


Lara, who turns 38 on May 2, had already announced last week that
he would retire from one-day cricket.


Lara, in his third stint as West Indian captain and the subject
of much criticism for the team's lacklustre performances in the
World Cup, admitted the campaign had been a major personal
disappointment.


It was his fifth World Cup but the West Indies have only once
reached the last four during his career when they were beaten by
Australia in Mohali in 1996.


Lara denied that contract negotiations, which were still going on
when the tournament started, had affected the West Indian
performance.


"We've got a players association and a West Indies cricket
board," he said.


"These matters are handled at that level by people who are astute
enough to understand the delicate situation. We are just the
players.


"Whatever the situation, when we go on the cricket field we try
our best. I know the disappointment of the cricket fans. I am sad
that we have disappointed the Caribbean and our supporters around
the world."


One of Lara's greatest supporters, Sir Garfield Sobers, had
insisted Lara was not the reason behind the team's recent
troubles.


Sobers believes there are major problems with the infrastructure
of the sport in the Caribbean.


"As far as the West Indies team is concerned, Brian Lara as a
captain and all the comments that have been made sometimes people
don't look at the facts," said Sobers.


"The facts are that the West Indies in the last two and a half
years have had a tremendous amount of problems.


"One, the West Indies Board didn't have enough money to have
enough camps. Two, there were always problems with not being able
to field a strong West Indies team, there were strikes and there
were all kinds of problems.


"And to build a house, if you don't have a solid foundation and
you build a house, you are going to have problems later on. And I
think this is where the problems are stemming from.


"People don't seem to realise this and there are all kinds of
calls for this and calls for that, which I think is being over
done by lots of people."

