

The former chief executive of US telecoms giant Qwest
Communications International, Joseph Nacchio, was on Thursday
found guilty of insider trading by a court in Denver.


Nacchio, 57, who was ousted from the regional telephone company
in 2002, was convicted on 19 of 42 counts of insider trading
arising from the sale of 2.5 million shares in early 2001.


The jury in this Colorado city found Nacchio guilty after
retiring to consider their verdicts last week following a three-
week trial.


Prosecutors had alleged Nacchio sold 100.8 million dollars worth
of Qwest stock, despite knowing the company would have trouble
reaching a five-year plan to grow revenues by between 15 percent
and 17 percent per year.


But rather than telling investors about the internal doubts over
the projections, prosecutors said Nacchio kept reiterating that
the company was sticking by its revenue targets.


Prosecutor James Hearty said during the trial the case was about
"fairness" rather than false accounting.


"It isn't a case about accounting. It's a case about fairness.
There would have been nothing wrong with Joe Nacchio selling his
shares so long as he told investors about the problems he knew
about," Hearty said.


When Qwest's share prices later plummeted, thousands of
shareholders -- including many current and former employees --
lost money, in some cases their entire retirement savings.


Nacchio's defense team said the former chief executive had
unloaded the shares in early 2001 because the board of directors
had forced him to exercise valuable stock options before they
expired.


Lawyer Herbert Stern also told the court that Nacchio, who did
not testify during the trial, had "passionately, honestly and
fervently" believed in the company's publicly stated financial
projections.

