

Chinese shares prices rose 2.87 percent in Friday morning trade
amid easing concerns about a possible fresh round of economic
cooling measures after the release of very strong growth figures,
dealers said.


They said financial and property stocks were in focus after the
market lost about 4.5 percent Thursday in nervous trade ahead of
the release of China's first quarter economic growth data.


The figures, released immediately after the close Thursday,
showed China's economy grew 11.1 percent in the first quarter of
2007, picking up sharply from 10.4 percent in the last three
months of 2006.


Analyst forecasts had been for around 11 percent growth as the
economy runs ahead even faster despite a several moves this year
to keep economic growth at a more sustainable pace.


Even though a new round of economic tightening is now widely
expected, investors remain buoyant given the current momentum in
the bourse that has seen share prices rise about 180 percent
since January last year.


"Although the first-quarter economic data ... brings credit-
tightening concerns to the market, it will have limited impact as
in the short-run fresh capital is seen continuing to flow in
helping to sustain the bullish trend," a Shanghai- based analyst
said.


The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index, which covers both A- and
B-shares listed on the Shanghai Stock Exchange, ended the morning
up 99.11 points at 3,548.12.


The Shanghai A-share Index rose 104.03 points or 2.87 percent to
3,728.92 and the Shenzhen A-share Index gained 33.76 points or
3.36 percent to 1,039.84.

