

The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed at a record high above
12,800 points for a second straight day Thursday as robust
earnings news fueled modest gains for blue chips in a mixed
overall market.


Better-than-expected earnings from financial heavyweight Bank of
America helped support the Dow, which managed a slight gain from
a day earlier.


The benchmark Dow index finished up 4.79 points (0.04 percent) at
12,808.63, notching up a fresh record close after striking
12,803.84 a day earlier.


The other US share gauges failed to keep pace, however.


The broad-market Standard and Poor's 500 index lost 1.77 points
(0.12 percent) to 1,470.73 while the tech-dominated Nasdaq
composite index ended down 5.15 points (0.21 percent) at
2,505.35.


Analysts said Bank of America's latest profits, which rose five
percent to a hefty 5.26 billion dollars, helped underpin the Dow
as the first quarter earnings season continued apace.


The Dow had, however, opened lower in morning trading following
tumbles on Asian share markets, particularly in fast-growing
China were fears persist of a stock bubble.


"We think the reaction to today's news will be short-lived.
Nonetheless, we would take a cautious approach for the next few
days to see how the market handles the China news," said Gregory
Drahuschak, a market analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott.


Investors refocused on corporate America's earnings calendar as
the day progressed, finding support from Bank of America and
better-than-expected profits from Merrill Lynch.


Excluding certain costs, Bank of America said its quarterly
earnings per share struck 1.17 dollars, besting the forecasts of
most Wall Street analysts who had anticipated earnings of 1.15
dollars per share.


"Bank of America is off to a solid start in 2007 despite a
challenging operating environment," the bank's chairman and chief
executive, Kenneth Lewis, said.


The bank's shares closed down 91 cents at 50.91 dollars in the
wake of its earnings which were boosted by investment banking and
trading income.


Merrill meanwhile unveiled first quarter profits of 2.15 billion
dollars, marking a hefty 352 percent gain in earnings from the
same period a year ago.


Earnings per share equated to 2.26 dollars as revenues leapt 24
percent to 9.9 billion dollars.


Merrill's shares finished down 55 cents at 90.11 dollars.


Analysts said Yahoo's announcement of slowing profits Tuesday had
acted as a lingering drag on the Nasdaq, but tech darling Google
might boost the sector's optimism when the market opens Friday.


Google reported Thursday that its profits surged 69 percent to
one billion dollars in the first three months of the year as
revenues at the world's leading Internet search company soared.


Google said its net profit in the quarter tallied 1.0 billion
dollars, or 3.18 dollars per share, compared to 592 million
dollars, or 1.95 dollars per share, in the first quarter of 2007.


The search engine firm's shares were trading down 4.36 dollars at
471.65 dollars in after-hours trading.


Bond prices were mixed. The yield on the 10-year US Treasury bond
rose to 4.670 percent from 4.654 percent, but that on the 30-year
bond dropped to 4.836 percent against 4.847 percent. Bond yields
and prices move in opposite directions.

