

A proposed 3,000-strong UN force to back up ill-equipped African
Union (AU) troops in Sudan's war-torn Darfur region is unlikely
to be deployed before September, Britain's UN ambassador said
Thursday.


"We have to do everything possible to produce the heavy support
package on the ground at the earliest date," Ambassador Emyr
Jones Parry, who chairs the Security Council this month, said.


"With the best will in the world, we're not likely to be able to
do that before September," he added. "And so we have to cover all
the different aspects, to sustain protection of civilians in
Darfur up to September and through September."


Monday Khartoum accepted the second phase of a United Nations
plan to bring stability to Darfur that will add 3,000 UN
peacekeepers to bolster 7,000 under- funded and exhausted AU
troops.


A three-phase plan floated last year by former UN chief Kofi
Annan is supposed to culminate with the deployment of a
20,000-strong "hybrid" UN-AU peacekeeping force in Darfur, a
region the size of France.


Regarding the "hybrid" force, Jones Parry said "the priority is
to firm up the agreement between the AU and the UN and to get a
very early response and agreement from (Sudanese President Omar)
Beshir so the planning for that can actually be effective and
troops got ready."


At least 200,000 people have been killed in Darfur and more than
two million driven from their homes in four years of ethnic
strife, according to the UN. Khartoum disputes those figures, but
some sources say the death toll is much higher.

