

President Jacques Chirac on Thursday spoke by phone with Afghan
President Hamid Karzai about efforts underway to win the release
of two French aid workers held hostage by the Taliban for more
than two weeks, his office said.


Chirac thanked Karzai for allowing French envoy Philippe Faure,
the top foreign ministry official, to hold talks in Kabul on the
fate of the two aid workers and their three Afghan colleagues who
were seized in southern Afghanistan on April 3.


The conversation touched on "efforts undertaken for their
release," said presidential spokesman Jerome Bonnafont.


During a first conversation with Karzai last week, Chirac asked
the Afghan president to "make every effort" to win the release of
the two French nationals.


The Taliban have been holding the French man and woman and three
of their Afghan colleagues from the Terre d'Enfance (A World For
Our Children) charity since seizing them in the southwestern
province of Nimroz on April 3.


Faure, the foreign ministry's secretary general, is to hold talks
on Thursday and Friday with Afghan officials.


"Our objective remains, more than ever, to bring back the members
of the group safe and sound and as quickly as possible," said
foreign ministry spokesman Jean-Baptiste Mattei.


A videotape showing the French citizens was shown on Canadian
television at the weekend. Paris says it has not received any
demands from the kidnappers.


Karzai has said that the government will not make any more
hostage deals with the Taliban following the controversial
release of five rebels in exchange for kidnapped Italian
journalist Daniele Mastrogiacomo last month.


Faure is to meet in Kabul with NGO representatives and members of
the French expatriate community, the foreign ministry said.

