

Amnesty International called on the Iraqi government Friday to
suspend use of the death penalty with a view to abolishing it
completely, saying at least 100 people had been executed since
2004.


The death penalty was widely used under former dictator Saddam
Hussein, who was executed himself last December, but was
suspended following the United States- led invasion of Iraq in
2003.


When the Iraqi interim government took over in 2004 it was
reinstated, and the international human rights group said more
than 270 people had been sentenced to death and at least 100
people reportedly executed since.


At least 65 people, including at least two women, were killed
last year, putting Iraq fourth in the world after China, Iran and
Pakistan for its number of executions, it said.


"The Iraqi government should take decisive action now to reassert
its commitment to human rights, including the right to life,"
Amnesty said in a report issued from London.


"It should immediately institute a moratorium on executions and
then take steps to abolish the death penalty for all offences.
Without such action, Iraq will continue to live under the brutal
legacy of the past."


Amnesty described the death penalty as "the ultimate form of
cruel, inhuman or degrading punishment" and said restoring it was
a "profoundly retrograde step."


In many cases, prisoners were sentenced to death following trials
which failed to meet international standards, Amnesty said.


It identified shortcomings in many proceedings at the Central
Criminal Court of Iraq including pre-trial televised confessions,
as well as those alleged to have been extracted through torture,
plus insufficient access to lawyers.


Iraqi President Jalal Talabani has expressed opposition to the
death penalty and distanced himself from the decision to execute
Saddam.

