

Prime Minister Stephen Harper's Conservative minority government
must immediately vow to withdraw Canadian troops from Afghanistan
in February 2009, the opposition Liberals said Thursday.


In a parliamentary motion, the Liberals asked the government to
dispel speculation that Canada's combat mission could be extended
beyond 2009, its current mandate, and advise its NATO allies so
they may prepare for an orderly handover of duties.


But Harper refused to discuss future deployments.


"For months the Conservatives have given confused and often
conflicting messages about the mission in southern Afghanistan,"
lamented Liberal defense critic Denis Coderre in a statement.


"The opposition is demanding clarity for our parliament, for
Canadians, and most importantly, for our soldiers and their
families."


Canada has deployed 2,500 soldiers in the volatile Kandahar
region in southern Afghanistan hunting down former Taliban
militants. Since 2002, 54 soldiers and one senior diplomat have
died in attacks, accidents or roadside explosions.


Last year, Harper's Conservatives pushed through parliament a
two-year extension of the mission to February 2009, with the
support of several Liberal MPs, but did not exclude the
possibility of a further commitment.


The Liberals accused Harper of having already made up his mind to
extend the mission, despite his public denials.


Harper responded in parliament saying: "NATO is not asking us for
a decision today."


Opposition leader Stephane Dion vowed in February to bring
Canadian troops home in February 2009, if his Liberal Party is
returned to power in the next general election, expected this
year.

