

Malaysia's ruling coalition faces a test of its popularity in a
crucial by- election battle as the country gears up for a general
election, deputy prime minister Najib Razak has said.


The ruling National Front coalition or Barisan Nasional (BN) on
April 28 will compete against the party advised by former deputy
premier Anwar Ibrahim for the seat of Ijok in western Selangor
state.


The BN's largest parties, including the United Malays National
Organisation (UMNO) and the Malaysian Indian Congress (MIC),
represent Malaysia's main ethnic groups.


"This by-election is a big test for UMNO headquarters and
Selangor UMNO, although the candidate K. Parthiban is from the
MIC," Najib was quoted as saying late Thursday by the state
Bernama news agency.


"It does not only involve the interest of the MIC, but the
interest and image of UMNO as well," he said.


Malaysia is not due for a general election until 2009, but there
is widespread speculation that Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad
Badawi will hold an poll before then.


Analysts are flagging a date before April 2008, when Anwar, who
has a corruption conviction against him, becomes eligible to
stand once again for public office.


Anwar has already stated his intention to run for president of
the opposition People's Justice Party or Parti Keadilan Rakyat,
which he now advises, at the party's congress in May.


He was expected Friday to launch into a fierce campaigning effort
in Ijok for Keadilan, created in the wake of a reform movement to
protest his 1998 sacking from government by then premier Mahathir
Mohamad.


Keadilan's president, Wan Azizah Wan Ismail, has said the party
hopes to use Anwar's star power to gain support, and that the
state by-election in the sleepy rural area could add momentum to
his political comeback.

