

AFP news calendar


Monday, April 23 to Sunday, May 20:


-----------------------------------


Monday, April 23


----------------


BAKU: Start of two-day oil conference from the Caspian region,
with representatives from Western companies and from the region


BELGRADE: Final day in the trial for the murder of former Serbian
prime minister Zoran Djindjic. Verdict expected in May


BUCHAREST: Visit of EU justice and internal affairs officials
(until April 27)


CAIRO: David Satterfield, a top Iraq advisor to US Secretary of
State Condoleezza Rice, in Egypt for talks


DAMASCUS: Legislative elections (second and final day)


DOHA: UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon attends seventh Doha Forum
on Democracy, Development and Free Trade (to 25)


JERUSALEM: Israel celebrates Independence Day marking the 59th
anniversary of the state's founding in 1948


LONDON: Preliminary trial of pop star George Michael, who stands
accused of having driven while under the influence of drugs


LUXEMBOURG: EU foreign ministers meet


MOSCOW: US Defense Secretary Robert Gates visits


- Turkmen President Gurbanguly Berdymukhammedov visits (and 24)


SINGAPORE: An arbitration court to hear a dispute between
Singapore Airlines and its pilots over pay scales on the Airbus
A380


SEOUL: Azerbaijan President Ilham Aliyev arrives for visit (to
25)


STRASBOURG: European parliament session (to 26)


TALLINN: Slovakian Defence Minister Frantisek Kasicky visits (and
24)


Tuesday, April 24


----------------


ALGIERS: International medicine expo (to April 27)


BEIJING: Forum on China's intellectual property rights protection


BISHKEK: UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Louise Arbour
visits on first stop of 12-day central Asian tour


CAIRO: Egypt football giants Ahly, Africa's top club, host
Barcelona as part of their centennial celebrations


COPENHAGEN: Third meeting of Asian and European environment
ministers (ASEM) on climate change. To April 26


DAMASCUS: Verdict expected in trial of human rights activist
Anwar Bunni, who risks more than three years in jail for
"spreading false information"


- UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon visits Syria


GENEVA: WTO meeting on an EU complaint against India's wine and
spirit duties


KATHMANDU: One-year anniversary of 2006 Nepal protests that led
to King Gyanendra ending his direct rule. Declared a national
"Democracy Day" holiday


LUXEMBOURG: EU-Russia meeting


MANADO, Indonesia: Verdict expected in trial of Indonesian unit
of US mining giant Newmont, accused of polluting a bay with
chemicals from its mine.


NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Manmohan Singh holds meeting with
Kashmiri political leaders to discuss peace process with Pakistan
over the disputed region. Separatist groups from Indian Kashmir
have declined to attend.


TEPLICKA NAD VAHOM, Slovakia: Inauguration of factory for South
Korean auto company Kia Motors.


TOKYO: Verdict expected in trial over slaying of British bar
hostess Lucie Blackman


YEREVAN: Day of commemoration of Armenian genocide


Wednesday, April 25


-------------------


AMMAN: Trial continues of three suspected Islamists accused of
conspiring to assassinate US President George W. Bush during a
visit to Jordan last year.


- New hearing expected in the trial of 17 Jordanians accused of
infiltrating Syria to join insurgents.


- New hearing is expected in the trial of five Jordanians accused
of recruiting fighters for Al-Qaeda in Iraq.


AMBON, Indonesia: Anniversary of the outlawed separatist South
Maluku Republic (RMS) movement, often marked by violence


ANKARA: End of registration period for candidates in presidential
election


BEIJING: International Olympic Committee executive board meeting
(until April 28)


BERLIN: Meeting of business organisations from G8 countries


CAIRO: 28th anniversary of Israeli withdrawal from Sinai


PARIS: World Water Congress (to 28)


SANTIAGO: Second South American meeting of the World Economic
Forum (and 26)


SEOUL: North Korea marks 75th anniversary of its army, parade
expected


STRASBOURG: Council of Europe holds international conference on
terrorism, with 250 participants including from the UN and Club
of Madrid (and 26)


Thursday, April 26


----------------


ALGIERS: Official opening of legislative election campaign for
May 17 vote (to May 14)


ATHENS: Indian President Abdul Kalam visits (to April 27)


BASEL, Switzerland: Roche press conference on antiviral drugs,
including Tamiflu, effective against human forms of bird flu


BEIRUT: Second anniversary of Syrian withdrawal from Lebanon


BERLIN: Slovakian Prime Minister Robert Fico meets with Angela
Merkel


BISHKEK: Official visit of Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev


COPENHAGEN: Conference organised by Danish intelligence agency
PET on new anti- terrorism strategies and radicalisation in
Denmark. Danish imams among the participants (to April 27)


DAKAR: African Athletics Confederation conference, which is set
to elect a new president (to April 28)


DUSHANBE: Visit by UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Louise
Arbour (to 29)


GENEVA: The European Organisation for Nuclear Research (CERN)
puts final touches on an underground project aimed at better
understanding mass and matter


GUERNICA, Spain: 70th anniversary of bombing of Guernica


KAUNAS, Lithuania: International jazz festival (to 30)


KUALA LUMPUR: Coronation of Malaysia's new king Tuanku Mizan
Zainal Abidin


OSLO: Informal meeting of NATO foreign ministers (and 27)


RIGA: Belgian King Albert II visits


TOKYO: Emperor Akihito and Empress Michiko hold a spring garden
party at Akasaka Imperial Gardens


WASHINGTON: Prime Minister Shinzo Abe visits (and 27)


WUERZBURG, Germany: Informal meeting of European ministers in
charge of issues of competition (to 28)


Friday, April 27


----------------


BANGKOK: Allies of deposed premier Thaksin Shinawatra hold anti-
junta rally


CARACAS: Summit of the Bolivarian Alliance for the Americas (to
April 29)


FEZ, Morocco: Sufi music festival


THE HAGUE: International Criminal Tribunal for the former
Yugoslavia holds status conference for trial of Ante Gotovina and
two other Croat generals charged with war crimes committed at the
end of the 1991-1995 Serb-Croat War


KABUL: Victory day for anti-Russian "mujahedin" fighters,
celebrated with a military parade attended by President Hamid
Karzai


PARIS: Campaigning opens officially for the second round of the
presidential election


RIGA: International conference on tolerance, with European
institutions and NGOs attending


WARSAW: Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf visits (to 29)


- British Prime Minister Tony Blair visits


WINDSOR, England: An exhibit opens in connection with Queen
Elizabeth II and Prince Philip's 60th wedding anniversary,
showing five royal marriages through photographs and documents
from the royal archives


Saturday, April 28


------------------


CAIRO: Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak's son Gamal marries
Khadiga el-Gammal - celebrations on May 4


RIYADH: Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe arrives in Saudi
Arabia for talks with King Abdullah, the first stop on a regional
tour that includes the UAE, Kuwait, Qatar, and Egypt


SALONIKA, Greece: Europe prize for theatre to directors Robert
Lepage, from Quebec, and Peter Zadek of Germany


TRIPOLI: International conference on Darfur


Sunday, April 29


----------------


ABU DHABI: Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe arrives in UAE,
meets President Khalifa


BAMAKO: First round of presidential election


Monday, April 30


----------------


ASTANA/ALMATY: UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Louise
Arbour visits (to May 2)


BELFAST: Smoking ban goes into effect in all public places and
workplaces in Northern Ireland


DUBAI: Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe arrives in Dubai, meets
Prime Minister Mohammed (see Kuwait below)


HANOI: Vietnam's Liberation Day. British pop star Gary Glitter,
jailed in Vietnam for child molestation, is expected to ask for a
reduced sentence in the annual amnesty declared in the lead-up to
Vietnam's Liberation Day


KUWAIT: Abe leaves Dubai, arrives in Kuwait, meets Kuwaiti emir,
prime minister


PHNOM PENH: Foreign and Cambodian Khmer Rouge tribunal judges
meet in last ditch bid to approve internal rules needed for
genocide trials to go forward


SANAA: Trial continues against suspect accused of attacking the
US embassy in Sanaa.


VIENNA: A preparatory committee of the parties to the nuclear
Non-Proliferation Treaty hold a first session ahead of a 2010
review of the treaty (to May 11)


VODERADY, Slovakia: Ceremony to mark construction of new Samsung
factory


THE HAGUE: Queensday celebrations


Tuesday, May 1


----------------


BAGHDAD/WASHINGTON: Four years since US President George W. Bush
declared the end of "major combat" in Iraq from the deck of a US
aircraft carrier


COLOMBO: Sri Lanka's President Mahinda Rajapakse to unveil his
ruling party's proposals to end 35 years of ethnic bloodshed.


KUWAIT: Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe visits Japanese forces
at military base before leaving for Doha


DOHA: Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe arrives in Doha, meets
Prime Minister Hamad


MANILA: Philippines marks Labor Day and sixth anniversary of
failed uprising by supporters of deposed leader Joseph Estrada


PARIS AND OTHER EUROPEAN CITIES: Traditional May Day rallies


YANGON: Military-ruled Myanmar observes May Day


Wednesday, May 2


----------------


BERLIN: Second national conference on Islam, with the government
and representatives from the German Muslim community
participating


CAIRO: Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe arrives in Cairo for
talks with President Hosni Mubarak followed by news conference.
Returns to Tokyo May 3


- Verdict expected in trial of Houaida Taha, Al-Jazeera
journalist accused of hurting Egyptian national interest


JERUSALEM: Israel's President Moshe Katsav presents his defence
on charges including rape and sexual harassment to the attorney
general who will then make a definitive decision on an indictment


LONDON: Tenth anniversary of Tony Blair taking office


LONDON: Extradition hearing on former Algerian businessman Rafik
Khalifa, accused of corruption


TUNIS: Annual Jewish pilgrimage to El Ghriba, the oldest African
synagogue on the Tunisian island of Djerba (to 5)


Thursday, May 3


---------------


EDINBURGH: Scottish parliamentary elections


LONDON: British municipal elections


CARDIFF: Welsh parliamentary elections


SHARM EL-SHEIKH, Egypt: Two-day high-level international
conference on Iraq (and 4)


MOSCOW: Visit of Slovakian Prime Minister Robert Fico (and 4)


- Auction of large subsidiary of former top Russian petroleum
company Yukos for 5.4 billion dollars (4.2 billion euros)


Friday, May 4


---------------


ASHKHABAD: UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Louise Arbour
visits (to 5)


CAIRO: President Hosni Mubarak turns 79


Saturday, May 5


---------------


LISBON/PORTO: Demonstration for the legalisation of marijuana


MACAU: Macau Arts Festival (until June 2)


Sunday, May 6


-------------


DRESDEN, Germany: Meeting of G8 labour ministers


OUAGADOUGOU: Burkina Faso legislative elections


PARIS: Second round of French presidential election


LISBON: Madeira regional election


Monday, May 7


---------------


ALGIERS: Third International Finance Forum (to May 9)


BRUSSELS: Meeting of eurozone finance ministers


BRUSSELS: European Union agriculture ministers meeting (and 8)


THE HAGUE: International Criminal Tribunal for the former
Yugoslavia starts trial of Ante Gotovina and two other Croat
generals accused of committing crimes against humanity during the
1991-1995 Serbo-Croat war


KUALA LUMPUR: Malaysia hosts the second World Halal Forum (until
May 8)


Tuesday, May 8


---------------


BELFAST: Rival Protestant and Catholic leaders in Belfast
expected to resume power sharing after a landmark accord


BRUSSELS: Meeting of European finance ministers (ECOFIN)


THE HAGUE: Preliminary hearings ahead of a trial at the Special
Tribunal for Sierra Leone of former Liberian leader Charles
Taylor, who faces charges of committing war crimes and crimes
against humanity


MADRID: 25th International Drug Enforcement Conference (IDEC)(to
11)


SANAA: Verdict expected in the case of Yemeni tribesmen accused
of kidnapping four French tourists


BANGKOK: Thailand and the United States open their annual war
games, the biggest US military exercises in Asia (to May 18)


LUCKNOW, India: Final round of a month-long seven-phase assembly
poll in Uttar Pradesh, India's largest state


Wednesday, May 9


---------------


BRUSSELS: European Parliament mini session (and 10)


COPENHAGEN: Swedish King Carl XVI Gustaf, Queen Silvia and Crown
Princess Victoria make a state visit to Denmark. To May 11


GENEVA: World Trade Organisation council meeting


HONG KONG: Appeal begins against sentence of Chan Nai-ming, the
first person to be jailed for sharing Hollywood films on Bit
Torrent file sharing technology


LISBON: Fatima pilgrimage with the celebration of the 90th
anniversary of apparitions


MUMBAI: Sentencing due to start for 100 people convicted for
roles in deadly bomb blasts in Mumbai in 1993 that left 257
people dead


SEOUL: North and South Korea hold another round of face to face
reunions for separated families


Thursday, May 10


---------------


BANGKOK: Family of deceased Urairat Soimee, a victim of human
trafficking, sues her alleged abductors in the first such civil
case in Thailand


DAMASCUS: Verdict in the trial of Kamal Labouani, accused of
contacts with the United States to incite "aggression against
Syria."


GOTHENBURG, Sweden: Some 40 naval vessels and 7,000 personnel
attend opening ceremonies at Gothenburg naval dockyard of major
two-week NATO exercise "Noble Mariner", to be carried out in
Polish and Swedish waters. To May 13


LISBON: World tourism conference (up to 12)


LONDON: Miles Cooper, accused of sending letter bombs in February
that injured eight, to appear at Oxford Crown Court


MOSCOW: Auction of assets of former leading Russian petroleum
company Yukos in the south of Russia for about six billion
dollars (4.6 billion euros)


TUNIS: 13th edition of the Mediterranean Tourism Market (to 12)


VICTORIA: Legislative elections in The Seychelles (to 12)


Friday, May 11


---------------


LUCKNOW, India: Votes to be counted after the month-long assembly
elections in India's most populous Uttar Pradesh state


Saturday, May 12


---------------


HELSINKI: 52nd annual Eurovision song contest


REYKJAVIK: Icelandic legislative election


ROME: Demonstrations organised by Catholic associations against
Italian plan for civil unions


YEREVAN: Armenian legislative election


Sunday, May 13


---------------


BAMAKO: Second round of Mali's presidential election


LONDON: Classical Brit Awards with Sir Paul McCartney and Sting
among the nominees


Monday, May 14


---------------


BANGKOK: The wife of ousted prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra is
arraigned on tax evasion charges


BRUSSELS: Meeting for foreign affairs ministers (and 15)


WARSAW: Visit of Slovenian Prime Minister Janez Jansa


MANILA: Philippines holds mid-term election for half of the 24
member Senate, all 250 seats of the House of Representatives and
thousands of local posts from mayors to governors


MARIEHAMN, Finland: Hans Blix, the former UN chief weapons
inspector, now head of the independent Swedish Weapons of Mass
Destruction Commission, visits the Aaland Peace Institute. To May
15


ROME: Trial continues for US soldier Mario Lozano, accused in the
killing of Italian secret agent Nicola Calipari in Iraq


Tuesday, May 15


---------------


OSLO: Iran's former reformist president Mohammad Khatami visits
the Oslo Centre for Peace and Human Rights to take part in a
seminar on dialogue between the western and Muslim worlds. To May
17


PETRA, Jordan: 40 Nobel laureates and other public figures
convene for "Petra III: Building a Better World" a conference
hosted by King Abdullah II


SINGAPORE: Start of IMDEX Asia, a regional maritime defence
conference and trade show (until May 18)


Wednesday, May 16


---------------


CANNES, France: Opening of the 60th Cannes Film Festival (to May
27)


LONDON: Hearing for US extradition request for Abu Hamza, accused
of terrorist acts


PARIS: Official end of President Jacques Chirac's term in office


TANGIER, Morocco: Jazz festival


Thursday, May 17


---------------


SEOUL: FIFA holds final draw for Under-17 World Cup


ALGIERS: Legislative election for the 389 seats in the National
Assembly


Friday, May 18:


---------------


SAMARA, Russia: EU-Russia summit


DEAD SEA, Jordan: World Economic Forum meets on the banks of the
Dead Sea


Saturday, May 19:


-----------------


VIENNA: Placido Domingo at the Vienna Opera


Sunday, May 20


---------------


BRUSSELS: Information meeting of agriculture ministers (and 21)


SOFIA: Election of European parliament members, following
Bulgaria's EU membership on Jan. 1


HANOI: National Assembly election in Communist Vietnam

