

The jury hearing a gruesome Canadian mass murder trial took its
first break Thursday, after 12 weeks of gruesome testimony in
this Pacific coast city.


Since the trial's explosive opening in January, the jury has
heard an avalanche of evidence of how police found severed body
parts, bones, DNA and personal belongings of women found on pig
farm owned by Robert William Pickton.


Pickton has pleaded not guilty to killing 26 women who were drug
addicts selling sex on the squalid streets of Vancouver's
Downtown Eastside.


His current trial in British Columbia Supreme Court is for the
deaths of Sereena Abotsway, Mona Wilson, Andrea Joesbury, Brenda
Ann Wolfe, Georgina Faith Papin and Marnie Frey. The remaining 20
charges are expected to be tried later.


In recent weeks, prosecution witnesses testified in painstaking
detail about evidence found on Pickton's property, including
three severed women's heads.


The jury heard that DNA from some of the women, Pickton and
several other people was found on items, teeth and bones, while
the defense questioned witnesses about DNA from unidentified
sources on some of the evidence.


Public interest in the case has dwindled and an overflow
courtroom has been closed, said a court official. Only about
seven of 350 journalists accredited for the trial's opening still
remain in the press row, seated directly behind Pickton in a
bullet-resistant plastic prisoner's box.


Pickton, the jury and teams of prosecutors and defense lawyers
will return April 30.

