

General Motors posted record global sales in the first quarter of
2007, according to data released Thursday, but saw its worldwide
market share slip slightly.


GM said its global sales rose three percent to 2.26 million cars
and trucks but the automaker estimated its global market share
slipped to 13.0 percent from 13.1 percent a year ago.


The sales figures were released amid forecasts by many analysts
that GM would lose its spot as the world's biggest automaker to
Japanese rival Toyota.


"GM posted record sales in the first quarter driven by
exceptionally strong demand in emerging markets," said John
Middlebrook, GM vice president of global sales, service and
marketing operations.


Sales outside the United States accounted for approximately 60
percent of GM's total sales world wide in the first quarter and
are growing a rate of 10 percent which is twice the industry
average, Middlebrook added.


Overall, GM sold an estimated 1.36 million vehicles outside the
United States in the first three months of 2007.


GM estimated global car and truck sales overall grew by roughly 3
percent to 17.41 million vehicles in the first quarter of 2007
and should reach 70 million vehicles for the full year.


Sales in the Asia/Pacific region rose 20 percent to 388,000
vehicles thanks to a 25 percent increase in sales in China.


GM remains the top-selling automaker in China and estimates its
sales there could top one million units this year.


GM Daewoo sales of 35,000 vehicles were up 31 percent, outpacing
South Korea's strong market growth on the back of its Winstorm
SUV and Tosca medium car, Middlebrook said.


In the Latin America, Africa and Middle East region, GM sales
increased 17 percent, reaching a record 269,000 vehicles.


Strong growth in Russia, where GM's sales increased by 128
percent, also helped boost GM's total European sales by 6 percent
to 554,000 vehicles, Middlebrook said.

