

Guantanamo Bay detainee David Hicks has finished the paperwork
needed for his transfer to Australia, where he will complete a
nine-month sentence issued by a US military tribunal, his
attorney said Thursday.


Military lawyer Michael Mori said Hicks, 31, who was the first
Guantanamo detainee to be tried by a military tribunal, was ready
to be transferred from the US naval base in eastern Cuba to his
home country on May 29.


"For David, knowing he will be transferred back to Australia by
29 May, 2007 has provided him with a sense of certainty and
relief he has not known for over five years," he said, referring
to the length of Hicks' incarceration at the "war on terror"
prison.


"David is focused on his upcoming return to Australia and seeing
his family," Mori said.


"He looks forward to participating in any educational
opportunities available within the Australian prison system," the
lawyer said in a statement.


Hicks pleaded guilty on March 26 to assisting a terrorist group
and four days later was sentenced to a nine-month prison term.


The agreement allowed Hicks to complete his term in Australia. It
also included an unusual provision in which Hicks endorsed a
statement that he had never been "illegally treated" by US
authorities.


He also accepted a ban on speaking to the media for a year, which
Australia has already said it could not enforce.


Under the plea bargain, Hicks will serve his term in an Adelaide
prison.


"David is aware there have been comments and speculation in the
media regarding the enforceability, under Australian law, of
David's requirement not to speak to the media," Mori said.


"However, David will abide by the pre-trial agreement, which
requires him not speak to the media for 12 months," he said.

