

Japanese share prices rose 0.51 percent in morning trade on
Friday after Wall Street edged up to a second consecutive record
finish overnight, dealers said.


They said investors were relieved that the US market had shrugged
off signs of overheating in China's economy while Shanghai
rallied in early deals after sliding Thursday on fears of further
rises in Chinese interest rates.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
gained 87.92 points to 17,459.89 by the lunch break, having lost
1.67 percent on Thursday.


The broader TOPIX index of all first-section shares advanced 0.22
points to 1,707.15.


Decliners led gainers 894 to 652, with 180 stocks flat.


Volume was 859 million shares, down from 995 million on Thursday
morning.


Hideo Mizutani, chief strategist at Sieg Securities, said
investors had been relieved that the Shanghai market had opened
higher Friday after its heavy losses Thursday ahead of the
Chinese data.


"The market rebounded following a sharp decline (on Thursday). It
helped that Wall Street overnight showed a calm tone ... with the
Dow hitting another record high, although its gain was small," he
said.


"Another support for the market was the softer yen," he added,
after the dollar recovered the 118 yen level.


But the rebound was limited because investors held back for the
release next week of the earnings reports of leading companies,
dealers said.


Tokyo Broadcasting System (TBS) jumped 490 yen or 12.8 percent to
4,330 after Internet firm Rakuten said it was aiming to increase
its stake in TBS to over 20 percent from 19.86 percent at
present.


Rakuten Inc was down 700 yen or 1.47 percent at 46,800 yen.


Canon gained 70 yen or 1.1 percent at 6,580 after the Nikkei
business daily reported that the high-tech giant is expected to
report a record net profit of 520 billion yen (4.4 billion
dollars) in 2007, up 14 percent from 2006.


Toyota Motor rose 60 yen or 0.8 percent to 7,350 after the Nikkei
reported that the automaker will report a record operating profit
of 2.25 trillion yen (19 billion dollars) for the year which
ended in March, up 20 percent.


TDK was 220 yen or 2.2 percent higher at 10,360 after the company
said it had agreed to sell its recording media business and brand
rights to Imation Corp of the United States for 300 million
dollars.

