

Ramnaresh Sarwan made the perfect case to be the next West Indies
captain on Thursday when he smashed a majestic 91 to lead his
team to a convincing World Cup win over Bangladesh.


Sarwan, widely-tipped to become Brian Lara's successor, was named
man of the match for his innings which came when his side were
struggling at 55-3 in the Super Eights match at the Kensington
Oval.


His unbeaten knock, which featured six fours and two sixes,
helped West Indies make 230-5 before Bangladesh were bowled out
for 131 to give the hosts their first victory in the second round
stage.


"It was a difficult pitch to bat on at first but it got more
comfortable. The main thing was to play well for my team and the
most important thing was to win the match," said vice-captain
Sarwan who knows that a good run of form will help his leadership
bid.


"I just want to continue to keep playing the way I have been
playing."


Lara, who will retire from one-day internationals after
Saturday's final Super Eights match against England here, wants
to win that game to boost his side's chances of finishing fifth
in the table.


A win will also give the West Indies an important psychological
boost ahead of their tour to England which gets underway in May.


"With that tour coming up, a win would give us a huge advantage,"
said Lara who was also fulsome in his praise of Sarwan.


"His innings was magnificent and he was very positive. We have a
lot of pride to play for. The guys showed a lot of character and
they dug in to get us a good total.


"It's also good to see the crowds coming out to support us."

