

A Russian mariner was arrested near disputed waters after he
sailed an inflatable boat to Japan's coast to buy beer, police
said Monday.


Sergei Mikhailovich Vashkevich, the off-duty chief mate of a
merchant ship, landed on the eastern tip of Japan's northern
island of Hokkaido Saturday and bought a case of beer for 10,000
yen (80 dollars) at a highway rest stop.


But he was arrested as he headed back with the 24-bottle case on
a cape in the city of Nemuro, a local police official said.


"He was arrested after a local fisherman reported to police that
he sighted a suspicious boat," the police official told AFP by
telephone. "He was not under the influence of alcohol or
incoherent at that time."


Vashkevich, 29, who lives on the far eastern Russian island of
Sakhalin, north of Hokkaido, was turned over to public
prosecutors Monday on charges of entry without necessary
documents, the police official said.


Vashkevich was fishing for highly prized sea urchins with three
Russian divers off Suisho-tou in the Russian administered
southern Kuril chain when he ventured off a few kilometres to the
cape, the official said.


The two nations' coast guards have often arrested fishermen for
allegedly straying too far, but police said the beer-guzzling
fisherman's case was unique.


"We have never heard about such a case, although there were times
when Russians drifted ashore in sea incidents," the official
said.


Soviet troops seized the four southern Kuril islands off
Hokkaido's coast days after Japan's surrender in World War II and
expelled their Japanese residents.


The island issue has prevented Tokyo and Moscow from concluding a
post-war peace treaty and inhibited economic and other bilateral
exchanges.

