

One of only 25 bamboo lemurs in captivity, who was rejected by
his mother at birth six weeks ago, has passed his first tricky
stages of being reared by humans in Stockholm zoo.


Handlers were not sure if Bilbo would accept the mixture of cat
and baby milk they offered him, but zoo manager Jonas Wahlstrom
says he is doing well.


"The first days were very delicate, we didn't know if he would
accept the food. We had to see if it was enough for him," he
said.


"Today, Bilbo is doing well. He is growing well," he said,
adding: "He has a 99 percent chance of survival."


It remains to be seen whether Bilbo can command the same kind of
affection as another baby animal, who was also rejected by his
mother, in Berlin zoo.


Hundreds of thousands of visitors from all over the world have
flocked to see polar bear cub Knut, and his face has sprung up on
t-shirts, posters and even bank cards across Germany.


Bilbo is one of only three bamboo lemurs in captivity in Sweden
-- the other two being his parents -- and only about 200 live in
the wild in Madagascar, according to Wahlstrom.


"This is a very rare animal, that's why we are working hard for
him," he said.


Bilbo weighs just 130 grams (4.6 ounces) but has grown from 30
grams three days after he was born.


Adult bamboo lemurs, who exist mainly on a diet of bamboo, grow
to between 700 grams and one kilo (1.5 to 2.2 pounds), and live
for about 22 years.


Now that his survival is assured, Stockholm zoo is trying to
reintegrate Bilbo with his parents.


"We try slowly to put him together with his parents because it is
quite important that he knows he is an animal and not a human
being," Wahlstrom said.


"We are slowly trying. He has to be in touch with his parents and
grow up with them."

