

Britain said Iran's announcement Monday that it was producing
enriched uranium on an industrial scale showed that it was still
defying the will of the international community.


London reiterated its position that Iran had to stop enrichment
and reprocessing activities and needed to convince the world that
its nuclear ambitions were entirely peaceful.


Britain is one of the five permanent members of the United
Nations Security Council, which has already slapped two sanctions
packages on Iran over its failure to heed ultimatums to suspend
uranium enrichment.


"We've made our position clear all along," a Foreign Office
spokesman told AFP.


"Iran's suggestion of more enrichment activity is a further
breach of International Atomic Energy Agency and UN resolutions.


"Iran knows what it must do which is comply with UN resolutions
which make it clear it must suspend all enrichment-related and
reprocessing activities before discussions about a civil nuclear
power programme can begin.


"That's always been our position as reflected in the various UN
resolutions, one obviously a couple of weeks ago where we made it
clear again.


"We've always made it clear we're happy to work with them to
develop a modern, civil nuclear power programme but they need to
satisfy the international community that that is what they are
seeking to develop."


Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad announced the country was
now producing enriched uranium on an industrial scale and warned
that the Islamic republic would defend its so-called nuclear
rights "to the end."


In a fiery speech at Natanz, Iran's most sensitive nuclear
facility, on its first atomic technology day, Ahmadinejad
promised that no amount of international pressure would prevent
Iran from taking its nuclear programme to new "summits."

