

Some 13,000 National Guard troops have been ordered to prepare to
be sent to Iraq, for a deployment to start in December, the
Pentagon announced Monday.


"These units, consisting of four National Guard brigade combat
teams, will deploy consistent with the secretary of defense's new
policy of mobilizing reserve components units for a maximum of
one year at any one time," the Department of Defense announced in
a statement.


The fresh troops, if deployed, would replace units currently in
Iraq, the Pentagon statement said. The deployment would be
separate from President George W. Bush's controversial "surge" of
21,000 troops, meant to quell the sectarian violence in Iraq, US
officials said.


"This alert is not associated with the current troop surge," the
statement said.


"These reserve units are not scheduled to begin deployment until
December 2007. They are receiving alert orders in order to
provide them the maximum time to complete their preparations.


"The final determination of whether these units will deploy will
be made based on conditions on the ground in Iraq."


The National Guard is made up of volunteer militias in each US
state, and are under the command of each state's governor, except
in wartime, when the US president may take command.


US troops are being rotated in and out of Iraq, sometimes with
less than the usual amount of training or 12 months' rest at US
bases.


Democrats, who control both houses of Congress, have been trying
to hem in Bush, by linking continued war funding on a timeline
for drawing down troop levels in Iraq.


Some 3,250 US troops have died in Iraq since the March 2003
invasion, according to an AFP count based on Pentagon figures.


A US Defense Department spokesman said last week that some 30,000
US troops sent as reinforcements to Iraq were likely to remain in
the war-torn country at least until the end of August.

