

Skating comedy "Blades of Glory" iced the competition for a
second straight week at the North American box-office, with 22.5
million dollars in ticket sales, industry figures showed Monday.


The movie features actor-comedians Will Ferrell and Jon Heder as
a pair of male skaters who find a way to perform in a couples'
competition, and includes cameos from figure skaters Brian
Boitano, Scott Hamilton and Nancy Kerrigan.


"Meet the Robinsons," a Disney computer-animated feature about a
child orphan inventor and his saga to save the future, took
second place with 16.7 million dollars in North American
theaters, according to final figures from box-office tracker
Exhibitor Relations.


Three new films rounded out the top five. "Are We Done Yet?," a
family comedy featuring rapper Ice Cube, took third with 14.3
million dollars.


The much-hyped Quentin Tarantino blood-and-gore double feature
"Grindhouse" took fourth with 11.6 million, while the Biblical
plague horror film "The Reaping" starring Hilary Swank snatched
10 million in its debut.


The Greek-Persian battle epic "300" fell to sixth place with 8.4
million dollars.


The comedy "Wild Hogs," which portrays the bumbling motorcycle
road trip of a handful of middle-aged suburbanites, took seventh
place with 6.7 million, while the sniper thriller "Shooter" took
eighth with 5.8 million.


"TMNT," the cartoon comeback of 1980s heroes the Teenage Mutant
Ninja Turtles, slid to ninth place with 4.8 million dollars.


"Firehouse Dog," about a lost pup adopted by a rundown fire
station, debuted in 10th with 3.8 million.


Rounding out the top 12 were the Sandra Bullock thriller
"Premonition" with three million and the September 11 recovery
story starring Adam Sandler "Reign Over Me" with 2.4 million.


The top 12 films pulled in 110 million over the weekend, an
increase of 7.18 percent compared to a year earlier.

