

North Korea has agreed to turn over the remains of six US
soldiers killed during the Korean War, according the office of US
presidential candidate Bill Richardson, who is on a visit to
Pyongyang.


General Ri Chan Bok, North Korea's commanding general at the
demilitarized zone dividing the two Koreas, pledged to Richardson
that the remains would be handed over to the UN Command and
Military Armistice Commission on Wednesday, a statement from the
office said.


Richardson, who is governor of the southwestern US state of New
Mexico, is a leading a bipartisan mission to North Korea at the
invitation of Stalinist country to oversee the recovery of the
remains.


He had said that the return of any remains would be a sign of
progress in the relationship between nuclear archrivals the
United States and North Korea.


More than 33,000 US troops died in the 1950-1953 war and about
8,100 are listed as missing.


The United States and North Korea are still technically at war
and have no diplomatic relations. The US military suspended joint
operations with North Korea to recover the remains of American
soldiers about two years ago due to concerns about safety in an
uncertain political climate.


The Korean People's Army (KPA) is also turning over the
identities of three perished US soldiers based on dog tags found
with the remains in the Unsan region of North Korea, the
statement said.


A formal ceremony marking the transfer of remains will be held
Thursday in Seoul. An arrival honor guard ceremony is scheduled
for later Thursday in Honolulu, Hawaii where the remains will be
DNA tested.

