

Iran said on Monday it has yet to decide on whether to attend a
high-level conference on Iraq's security to be held next month in
an Egyptian resort city, expressing dissatisfaction with the
venue.


"Iran has not yet decided and Tehran's decision regarding this
conference will be announced in due course," Deputy Foreign
Minister Mohammad Reza Baqeri was quoted by the Fars news agency
as saying.


Iraq has said the ministerial level meeting of its neighbouring
countries and world powers will be held in the Red Sea resort of
Sharm el-Sheikh between May 3-4.


"The Islamic Republic of Iran wants the conference to be held in
Baghdad or one of the cities in that country but if the
conference is to be held outside Iraq then they should get the
agreement of all relevant parties," Baqeri added.


The official also dismissed the prospect of a meeting between
Iranian Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki and US Secretary of
State Condoleezza Rice should Iran decide to attend the meeting.


"There is no plan for a meeting between Manouchehr Mottaki and
Condoleezza Rice on the sidelines of Iraq's neighbours meeting in
Sharm el-Sheikh," said Baqeri.


Iran's apparent reluctance to attend the conference in Egypt
could be linked to a quarter-century of bumpy relations with
Cairo.


The Islamic republic cut diplomatic ties with Cairo in 1979 over
former Egyptian president Anwar Sadat's decision to make peace
with its arch-enemy Israel. Iran then also named a street after
Sadat's assassin.


Ties have warmed a little since but the two sides still do not
have full diplomatic ties, maintaining only interests sections in
each other's capitals.

