

The leader of Bangladesh's main opposition party Sheikh Hasina
Wajed may face arrest after a Malaysian company Monday filed a
case against her accusing her of extortion, police said.


Tajul Islam Faruq, the chief executive officer of Westmont
Bangladesh Limited, a Malaysian-owned company, brought the
charges against Hasina and her private secretary, police officer
Jane Alam told AFP.


"In the case, he accused her of taking 30 million taka (434,000
dollars) as a favour for approving a power plant in northern
Bangladesh," he said.


"Faruq said he handed over the money in cash to her at her
official residence in 1998," he said.


"We will now investigate the charges and will issue an arrest
warrant against her if the charges are proved," he added.


The accusation came just days after Hasina, now vacationing in
the United States, blasted the country's military-backed
government for delaying national elections.


Hasina, president of the main opposition Awami League party and
also the leader of a 19-party opposition alliance, would be
barred from contesting the general elections if a court found her
guilty of such charges.


Police said the charges would be non-bailable under the country's
emergency power rules.


Bangladesh has been ruled by a military-backed government since
January, after the country's president declared a state of
emergency and cancelled polls scheduled for January 22.


The new government led by a former central bank governor vowed to
clean up politics and carry out sweeping electoral reforms before
announcing a new date for elections.


Nearly 50 top-ranking politicians and prominent people, including
the son of outgoing Prime Minister Khaleda Zia, have been
arrested since the government launched a anti-graft crackdown in
February.


The country's election commission last week said it needed at
least 18 months to prepare the ground for credible elections.

