

Organisers of the Monte Carlo Masters tennis tournament announced
Monday that they are suing the ATP Tour over plans to downgrade
the event's status.


The anti-trust lawsuit filed in the US State of Delaware where
the  headquarters of men's tennis is based, follows a similar
move by the Hamburg Masters last week.


Monte Carlo Masters Series tournament director Zeljko Franulovic
said they would do everthing in their power to protect their
tournament.


"Today marks a sad day for tennis when we are forced to take
legal action against our own representative body in a bid to
prevent them from destroying more than 100 years of tennis
history for their own financial profit and at the expense of
amateurs of tennis, players, tournament organisers and sponsors,"
said Franulovic.


The German tennis federation (DTB) announced last week they were
taking action against the ATP to defend the interests of the
Hamburg Masters.


The German federation said they are objecting to the ATP's bid to
reduce the number of Masters Series events played before the
French Open to one instead of the current three - Hamburg, Monte
Carlo and Rome.


DTB president Georg von Waldenfels said: "Changes planned in the
ATP calendar are going to be made at the cost of the Hamburg
tournament.


"That would have a serious financial impact on us. We tried to
reach agreement with the ATP but to no avail. The aim of this
action is to guarantee the tournament's place and status in the
ATP calendar."

