

Austrian Chancellor Alfred Gusenbauer said Monday that recent
revelations of irregularities in the purchase of 18 Eurofighter
jets were "to be taken very seriously."


He added that Austria now had greater chances of pulling out of
or amending the contract, signed in 2003 by the government of
former conservative Chancellor Wolfgang Schuessel.


Revelations emerged this week that a lobbyist for European
aerospace giant EADS, which manufactures the Eurofighters, had
paid 87,600 euros (117,000 dollars) to a company run by the wife
of Austria's former air force chief Erich Wolf, when the contract
for the military aircraft was being negotiated.


Gusenbauer said the payment stood in direct contradiction to
"very clear" contract stipulations which stated that no benefits
were to be granted to anyone linked to the awarding of the
contract.


Wolf's wife said the payment was a loan to her advertising
company, which was having financial difficulties, but she has yet
to start paying it back.


Wolf himself is to appear before a defence ministry disciplinary
commission on Tuesday.


Gusenbauer said Defence Minister Norbert Darabos would broach the
subject during ongoing talks with the European Aeronautics
Defence and Space Company (EADS) to find a way to back out of the
deal.


A parliamentary commission, launched in late October by the
Social Democrats, the environmental Green party and part of the
far-right, is currently examining the contract signed with EADS.


Gusenbauer, a Social Democrat, made a campaign pledge to scrap
the Eurofighter contract worth some 2.0 billion euros (2.58
billion dollars) before his election on October 1.

