

US stocks were slightly higher in late morning trading Monday
following an extended weekend break, as investors gained
confidence from a stronger-than- expected jobs report late last
week.


The US government said Friday that 180,000 new jobs were created
in March, much more than Wall Street had anticipated, but
investors could not trade on the news, as the stock market was
closed for Good Friday.


Analysts said investors were also bracing for the first quarter
earnings season which kicks off in earnest this week with some
market-watchers anticipating a solid performance from corporate
America.


At 1549 GMT, the Dow Jones Industrial Average was up a scant
10.64 points (0.08 percent) at 12,570.84 while the Nasdaq
composite had added a small 1.37 points (0.06 percent) to
2,472.71.


The Standard and Poor's 500 broad-market index was up 1.92 points
(0.13 percent) at 1,445.68.


The March non-farm payrolls report helped support optimism about
the resilience of the US economy, which has cooled in the past
year. The job snapshot also revealed a slight downtick in the US
unemployment rate to 4.4 percent.


"The data indicated that weakness in the housing and
manufacturing sector have not had a broad impact on hiring," said
Dick Green, president at Briefing.com.


"All this reduces the odds on a rate cut anytime soon but points
out a solid economy. The stock market is saying good is good,"
said Al Goldman, a chief market strategist at A.G. Edwards.


Apple's stock was down 38 cents at 94.30 dollars after it said it
had now sold 100 million iPods, describing the iconic device as
the fastest-selling music player ever.


Since the first iPod was sold in November 2001, the US company
has introduced over 10 models including the matchbook-size iPod
shuffle which hit stores in November. Current models sell for
between 79 and 249 dollars.


The pocket-sized music players, some of which can hold thousands
of songs and photos as well as playing movies, have helped turn
around Apple's financial fortunes.


US banking behemoth Citigroup was also in focus after its
Citibank unit was confirmed as a bidder for Taiwan's Bank of
Overseas Chinese (BOOC) in a potential 426 million dollar deal.


Citibank will acquire all 1.194 billion outstanding shares in
BOOC at over 11 dollars per share through its subsidiary Citibank
Overseas Investment Corp, BOOC said in a regulatory filing.


Citigroup's shares were up six cents at 51.63 dollars. Elsewhere
in the financial sector, Bank of America's stock was down 28
cents at 50.57 dollars while JPMorganChase was four cents higher
at 48.81 dollars.


Traders said lower oil prices were also helping to underpin
stocks.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, was down 76 cents at 63.52 dollars a barrel in
late morning deals despite lingering geopolitical tensions over
Iran's nuclear program.


Bond prices were also lower. The yield on the 10-year US Treasury
bonds rose to 4.747 percent from 4.674 percent late Thursday,
while that on the 30-year bond increased to 4.919 percent from
4.868 percent. Bond yields and prices move in opposite
directions.

