

The US military has had a disappointing and frustrating time in
Iraq since the fall of Saddam Hussein's regime four years ago, a
top admiral said on Monday.


"We acknowledge that while there have been substantial
accomplishments in Iraq since 2003, the past four years have also
been disappointing, frustrating and increasingly dangerous in
many parts of Iraq," Rear Admiral Mark Fox told reporters on the
fourth anniversary of the ouster of the former regime.


On April 9, 2003, US tanks rolled into Baghdad and pulled down a
giant bronze statue of Saddam, dramatically symbolising the end
of his regime.


But since then the troops have been caught between a fiery
insurgency and raging sectarian Sunni-Shiite bloodshed which has
killed tens of thousands of people.


The US military itself has lost at least 3,275 troops since the
March 2003 invasion, according to an AFP count based on Pentagon
figures.


On Monday, hundreds of thousands of Shiites protested against the
presence of US-led foreign forces in the central Iraqi city of
Najaf.


The protesters burned US flags and trampled on them, calling for
an end to the "occupation" of Iraq by American forces.


Fox said the massive rally was a sign of growing democracy in
Iraq.


"It's been a peaceful assembly which is... a mark of a democratic
society," he said.


Fox said the military was also "not bothered necessarily" by the
burning of US flags by the crowd, who staged the protest
following a call by firebrand anti- American Shiite cleric
Moqtada al-Sadr.


But the admiral did say that the military continued to track
Sadr, believing him to be in Iran.


"We do keep an eye and understanding of where his whereabouts
are, and we just kind of keep an eye on that," Fox said.


Sadr himself did not show up at the Najaf rally on Monday.

