

Herschelle Gibbs is almost certain to miss Tuesday's crucial
World Cup clash with West Indies here because of a calf strain as
South Africa look to recover from their embarrassing defeat to
Bangladesh.


"Herschelle is not more than 50-50," said coach Mickey Arthur on
Monday.


"But we'll give him every opportunity right until the start of
play to prove his fitness."


Arthur said that in order for Gibbs to play, South Africa would
need to be sure he could last 50 overs in the field and be able
to run between wickets when he bats.


If Gibbs does not play, Loots Bosman is likely to open the
batting, with AB de Villiers taking Gibbs's place at number four.


Arthur said the South Africans had put Saturday's 67-run loss to
Bangladesh behind them.


"After the game the boys hurt a lot, which is a good thing. We
had a good chat about it and we've closed the door on Bangladesh.
We realise that we still hold the key to our destiny in this
competition."


Both Arthur and West Indies skipper Brian Lara said the new pitch
at the rebuilt Queen's Park stadium was damp Monday morning and
could help the faster bowlers early in the match, the first to be
played at the ground in the tournament.


"When pitches are used for the first time in each island the fast
bowlers enjoy the conditions," said Lara, whose team have lost
all three of their Super Eights games so far.


"As matches go on the pitches become drier."


Arthur said South Africa expected the West Indies to be hungry,
knowing that another defeat will end any realistic chances of
them reaching the semi-finals.


"The pressure is going to be more on the West Indies than us," he
said.

