

Two Air India planes made emergency landings Monday at New
Delhi's bustling international airport, throwing scheduled
flights out of gear, airport officials said.


No one was hurt during the two landings at the Indira Gandhi
International airport, officials said.


"The runway was blocked earlier Monday when the nosewheel of an
Air India Airbus A310 collapsed on touchdown after flying in from
Shanghai via Bangkok carrying 169 passengers," spokesman Arun
Arora said.


The passengers were brought down from the tilted aircraft while
engineers rushed in heavy machinery to move the wide-bodied jet
off the runway, witnesses said.


The airport has an auxiliary runway but with the main runway
blocked numerous flights were delayed, because of longer taxiing
time, until officials managed to cordon off the craft and shorten
the runway to resume flights.


"We changed the threshold length by reducing it by 1,000 metres
(3,300 feet)," Arora said. The entire runway measured 3,810
metres.


"By 1:19 pm (0749 GMT) normal operations resumed," he said.


Another Air India plane, a New Delhi-bound Boeing-767 from Dubai,
made the second emergency landing at the airport at 3:15 pm (0945
GMT), Arora said.


"The pilot claimed technical problems, with suspected
undercarriage problems, and sought permission to make an
emergency landing," Arora said, adding none of the plane's 65
passengers were hurt.


"We went into emergency mode by sending out fire trucks and
ambulances during both the landings and now the situation is
normal," the official said.

