

United Nations and African Union officials began talks with
Sudanese government representatives here on Monday over plans to
deploy a joint UN-AU peacekeeping force in Darfur, the AU said.


"The meeting aims to examine the transfer of AU peacekeepers to
the hybrid UN-AU force following the agreement reached on
November 19," a spokesman told AFP on condition of anonymity,
adding that talks could continue on Tuesday.


November's agreement proposes UN forces join the current AU
peacekeeping deployment in Darfur (Amis) to create a hybrid
force, but Khartoum has objected to the plan. It insists the AU
must keep control of this joint force.


The AU has about 7,000 peacekeepers in Darfur but, underfunded
and badly equipped, its force has been subject to repeated
attacks in the past few weeks.


On April 1, Amis suffered its deadliest attack since its
deployment in 2004 when five of its soldiers, all Senegalese,
were killed by gunmen.


In July, the UN Security Council adopted a resolution authorising
the deployment of a 20,000-strong UN-AU force.


Darfur has been ravaged by four years of civil war between rebels
from the local black population and Arab militias supported by
the Sudanese army.


The UN estimates 200,000 people have been killed and two million
displaced in the conflict, although Khartoum contests the
figures.


South African President Thabo Mbeki is due to visit Khartoum on
Tuesday to try to persuade the government to accept the UN
reinforcement of the AU force.


US Deputy Secretary of State John Negroponte will also kick off a
week-long mission to Sudan and its neighbours on Wednesday in a
bid to clinch Khartoum's support for a more robust peacekeeping
force in Darfur.


Earlier on Monday, China urged Sudan -- its main African ally --
to be more flexible on the UN-AU plan.

