

The tragic deaths of six Canadian NATO soldiers in Afghanistan
are the price the country must pay for liberty, Foreign Minister
Peter MacKay said Monday.


The deaths are "a very serious reminder of the cost of freedom
and the cost of these conflicts," MacKay told CTV television,
comparing the conflict to a World War I battle Canadians won in
France.


The sacrifice "highlights exactly what it means to be at war and
what it means to be protecting people in Afghanistan as we did in
France and parts of Europe over 90 years ago," MacKay told the
private Canadian network.


Six Canadian NATO soldiers were killed Sunday by a roadside bomb
in southern Afghanistan in the deadliest single attack on NATO in
the country this year.


The six were killed and two other Canadian troops injured after a
roadside bomb exploded near their vehicle west of the southern
city of Kandahar.


On Sunday, Canada's Prime Minister Stephen Harper announced the
news while in France commemorating Canada's role in the 1917
battle of Vimy.


The latest casualties brought to 34 the number of foreign troops
to have died in Afghanistan since January. The figure includes
those from the US-led coalition which has more than 10,000
troops.


Canada has some 2,500 soldiers in the south of the country.


The number of Canadians to have died in the country since 2002
now stands at 51.


Officials did not say who might have set the bomb, but similar
attacks in the past have been blamed on the Taliban militants who
have been waging an insurgency against the government and foreign
troops.


The insurgency, launched months after the ouster of the Taliban
by a US-led invasion in late 2001, intensified last year.


As part of their campaign the Taliban have widely used roadside
bombs, said to be a tactic copied from insurgents fighting the
US-led coalition force in Iraq.

