

Malaysia's Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi said Monday
bloggers will not be forced to register themselves, but existing
laws will be used to exert more control on irresponsible
blogging.


"Even if we asked them to register there will be those who will
go by other names and will use other channels, including using
servers outside the country," Abdullah told reporters.


"This is not something we are considering at the moment and it
has to be properly studied as there are existing laws and
regulations to be considered," he said.


Abdullah said the government would instead study existing laws to
see how they could be properly used to clamp down on bloggers if
necessary.


"There are laws in the country and they will be enforced when
they need to be enforced," Abdullah said.


"I know there are many who have now regretted their activities of
posting their folk tales on the Internet," he said.


Abdullah's comments come as Malaysian ministers issued fresh
warnings to bloggers, including suggesting that bloggers identify
themselves.


Information Minister Zainuddin Maidin said last week that
bloggers should not be exempt from the same controls as
mainstream media, and accused them of using lies to overthrow the
government.


Abdullah has also launched attacks on bloggers and Internet
users, accusing them of spreading lies about the government.


He supported a controversial defamation lawsuit by the
government-linked New Straits Times Press newspaper group against
prominent bloggers Jeff Ooi and Ahirudin Attan, for posts
criticising the daily and the government.


Rights groups have condemned the government's attacks, arguing
that blogs offer a crucial alternative to the tightly-controlled
mainstream media.

