

"Hello, how are you?" inquired the Virginia Tech gunman before
opening fire in one classroom, according to a South Korean
survivor quoted Wednesday.


Park Chang-Min was describing the terror which came to the US
university Monday when his compatriot Cho Seung-Hui staged the
deadliest school shooting in US history.


Park was speaking to South Korean journalists in the US from his
hospital bed, where he is recovering from wounds to his chest and
arm.


The 27-year-old engineering student was sitting at the back of a
class in applied hydrology when the gunman walked in.


"He hid his face behind a mask and had his brown-coloured cap
lowered to his eyes. He wore glasses and something like a black
ammo jacket," Park said, according to the website of JoongAng
Ilbo newspaper.


"We were only minutes into the class. There were about 15
students in the room. I was sitting in the back. The man came in
with two handguns and a lot of ammo," Park said.


"He shot the professor first and spread bullets toward us. In a
moment, the room turned into a bloody hell.


"I got down intuitively. I even did not notice a bullet brush my
chest and right arm."


The shooter then stepped out and entered the next room where a
German class was being held.


"I think I heard the gunman saying 'Hello, how are you?' before
he opened fire there," Park said.


"It took a long while after everything became quiet before police
entered the room. They said, 'Anyone who is okay, raise their
hands'. Me and two others got up. All the others were either
lying face down on their desks or sprawled on the floor.


"It's just horrible to think they were either dead or severely
wounded," Park said.


Cho, 23, killed 32 students or staff before committing suicide.
The reason for his deadly rampage is still unknown.

