

An Indonesian student, who had almost completed his doctorate
studies, was among those gunned down in the US university
massacre this week, a foreign ministry spokesman said Wednesday.


Partahi Mamora Halomoan Lumbantoruan had just one more month of
study at the Virginia Tech University, where 32 students were
killed by a gunman on Monday, the deadliest school shooting in US
history.


Lumbantoruan, 34, was due to finish his doctorate in geocivil
engineering in May, local media reports said.


Lumbantoruan, who had earlier graduated from Parahygan University
in Bandung on Indonesia's Java island, had been paying for his
own tuition and board at the US campus for the last two years,
the reports said.


The Indonesian government was working to have Lumbantoruan's body
repatriated as soon as possible, foreign ministry spokesman
Kristiarto Legowo told AFP.


"The embassy (in Washington) has already asked the hospital
coroner to speed up the autopsy process and hand over the body to
the embassy so that his repatriation can be arranged," Legowo
said.


He said Indonesia's ambassador had gone to Virginia to work with
local officials to collect the body.


"The embassy will make all the necessary arrangements, take the
body to the airport and arrange his repatriation on board a
flight that has yet to be determined," the spokesman said.


Lumbantoruan's father, a retired army officer, lives in Medan on
Sumatra island while his mother, also an army officer, works in
Semarang in central Java.


Lumbantoruan was the youngest of their two children, reports
said.

