

Ethanol-fueled vehicles could contribute to more illnesses and
deaths from respiratory disease than gasoline-powered cars and
trucks, US research has found.


If all cars and trucks were replaced by vehicles fueled by
ethanol, deaths related to air pollution would rise by about four
percent in the United States, according to the study in the
journal Environmental Science & Technology.


"Our results show that a high blend of ethanol poses an equal or
greater risk to public health than gasoline, which already causes
significant health damage," said Mark Jacobson, an atmospheric
scientist at Stanford University and lead author of the study.


The study raises questions about ethanol, a fuel produced from
corn or other crops, which many hope will reduce oil dependency
and air pollution.


Jacobson ran computer tests simulating atmospheric conditions in
the United States in 2020, when ethanol-fueled cars are expected
to be widely available. His simulation focused on Los Angeles
because of its poor air quality and dense population, he said.


He programmed the computer to run air-quality simulations
comparing two scenarios -- one where all cars, trucks,
motorcycles and other vehicles are powered by gasoline and
another where the same fleet is powered by E85, a blend of 85
percent ethanol and 15 percent gasoline.


"In some parts of the country, E85 significantly increased ozone,
a prime ingredient of smog," Jacobson said.


Asthma, weakened immune systems and other health conditions have
been linked to even small increases in ozone in the atmosphere.


The World Health Organization estimates that 800,000 people die
each year from ozone and other chemicals in smog.


E85 could boost US asthma-related emergency room visits by 770 a
year and the number of respiratory-related hospitalizations by
990.


In Los Angeles, there would be 650 more hospitalizations and
1,200 more asthma- related emergency visits in 2020 under the E85
model, the study found.

