

The family of the gunman in the Virginia Tech massacre were
living a tough life in South Korea before they emigrated to the
United States in search of the American dream, news reports said
Wednesday.


Cho Seung-Hui was a "very quiet and well-behaved" boy when he
lived with his family in a modest rented apartment in northern
Seoul before the family left for the United States in 1992, their
former landlord said.


"I was just shocked when I was visited and told by (South Korean)
police yesterday that the gunman was a boy who used to live in my
apartment," Lim Bong- Ae, 67, was quoted as saying by Yonhap news
agency.


"I remember him as a quiet and well-behaved boy. I just can't
believe he did it," she said.


Cho and his parents and sister lived in the cheapest basement
unit of Lim's three-storey apartment block in Changdong district
for about a year and were "not so well-off," she said.


"One day, the parents told me they were moving out even before
the contract for rent expired," she said.


"I asked where they were going and they answered they found their
life here too hard and were emigrating to the United States, even
though they had no acquaintances there," she said.


Cho's parents, who run a dry cleaning business, were reportedly
hospitalised for shock after their 23-year-old student son killed
32 students and staff before committing suicide Monday.


President Roh Moo-Hyun Wednesday offered the American people
condolences "from the bottom of my heart" following the deadliest
school shooting in US history.


Other South Koreans expressed shock and fears of a racially
motivated backlash against their compatriots living in the US.

