

Chinese share prices inched up to yet another record finish
Wednesday on sustained fund inflows as investors waited for a key
set of first quarter economic figures due Thursday, dealers said.


They said most expect the data to show the runaway economy
picking up speed once again, with overall growth likely running
at 11 percent or more after 10.4 percent in the last three months
of 2006.


The view is that another strong set of figures will prompt the
authorities to tighten monetary policy again, after having raised
interest rates only last month, and take other measures to cool
some of the hottest sectors.


Dealers said Thursday that stocks recovered from early profit-
taking and closed higher on the back of continued capital inflows
which pushed volumes further into record territory.


About 60 companies rose by their daily limit of 10 percent as the
market chalked up a seventh record performance in eight days.


Shanghai A-shares were little changed overall but in Shenzhen,
which often follows its own lead, they were up sharply.


The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index, which covers both A- and
B-shares, closed up 0.53 points at a record 3,612.40 on turnover
of 167.42 billion yuan (21.66 billion US dollars).


The Shanghai A-share Index was up 0.32 points at 3,796.69 on
turnover of 166.47 billion yuan but the Shenzhen A-share Index
jumped 21.19 points or 2.04 percent at a record 1,058.17, on
turnover of 98.24 billion yuan.


"The Shanghai Composite index managed to close slightly up on the
back of continued fund inflows as fresh money kept rushing in on
hopes for quick gains," Wang Sai, an analyst at Wanguo
Consulting, said.


Dealers noted concerns about the economic data to be announced
tomorrow.


"There are jitters about the upcoming first-quarter macro-
economic data to be released (Thursday) because many analysts
expect further central bank credit- tightening moves as
(inflation) and (overall) growth are likely to be relatively
high," said Wang Mingzhi, an analyst at GF Securities.


Steelmakers were in demand after several major companies
announced robust earnings results, dealers said. Shanxi Taigang
Stainless Steel at 24.78 yuan and Fushun Special Steel at 8.14
yuan were both up by their 10 percent limit.


Power generators were also in favor. Huadian Power International
Corp was up 10 percent at 8.35 yuan along with several other
companies in the sector.


Financial stocks were under pressure from profit-taking with
Shanghai Pudong Development Bank down 1.03 yuan or 3.45 percent
at 28.81.


China Life Insurance, the country's largest insurer, was down
1.32 yuan or 3.48 percent at 36.58 on profit-taking after strong
2006 results.


The Shanghai B-share Index was up 1.89 points or 0.95 percent to
201.13 on turnover of 948.24 million US dollars and the Shenzhen
B-share Index rose 3.05 points or 0.54 percent at 562.95, a fresh
closing high, on turnover of 983.17 million Hong Kong dollars
(127.19 million US dollars).

