

President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad on Wednesday vowed that Iran's
armed forces would "cut off the hand" of any enemy that launched
an attack on the Islamic republic.


"Our army has a defensive mission and not an offensive one. But
it is completely ready to confront any aggressor and cut off
their hand," Ahmadinejad said in a speech broadcast on state
television to mark Iran's army day.


"The army and armed forces must be more ready with each passing
day," he said in the speech to a military parade outside the
shrine of Iran's revolutionary founder Ayatollah Ruhollah
Khomeini.


The United States has refused to rule out the option of military
action to bring Iran to heel over its controversial atomic drive
which Washington says is aimed at making weapons. Iran insists
that its nuclear programme is peaceful.


Iran's repeated refusal to suspend sensitive uranium enrichment
operations has already earned it two sets of UN sanctions
targeting its ballistics and nuclear industries.


"They think that with sanctions on our weapons we would be
paralysed but we have succeeded in producing all we need in
arms," said Ahmadinejad in his brief address to the armed forces.


Following Ahmadinejad's speech, the army started a large-scale
parade in front of the stand of the president and Iran's military
top brass, which was expected later to include a display of
military equipment.


Ahmadinejad said that despite the standoff over its nuclear
programme, Iran wanted to have friendly relations with all
countries, with the exception of Israel which it refuses to
recognise.


"Our people hold out the hand of friendship to all the peoples.
We want friendly and just relations with all the peoples except
the Zionist regime," he said.

