

Hong Kong share prices closed flat Wednesday as the market went
into consolidation mode after gaining nearly 450 points in the
last two sessions, dealers said.


They said select China financials and blue chips saw continued
buying interest but it was offset by profit-taking in the
property sector.


The Hang Seng Index closed down 11.52 points at 20,777.09, off a
low of 20,718.72 and a high of 20,868.07. Turnover was 59.81
billion Hong Kong dollars (7.7 billion US).


"The market rose (at the open) but then saw profit-taking when
the benchmark index reached the 20,800 level," said Jackson Wong,
investment manager at Tanrich Securities.


Select China financials saw continued interest following strong
results from many firms, but local property firms turned weaker
on profit-taking, he said.


"I don't see much positive leads to further boost the market
strongly," he said, adding that the index may be facing a
downside of 200-300 points this week.


Large-caps supported the main index, with HSBC up 0.60 at 144.0,
extending Tuesday's gains, and China Mobile up 0.10 at 75.6.


Among blue chips hit by profit-taking, Swire Pacific was down
0.95 at 91.55 and Sun Hung Kai Properties fell 0.20 to 92.80.


Other property stocks traded mixed, with Cheung Kong gaining 0.30
at 103.30 and New World Development up 0.06 at 18.5, while Sino
Land was down 0.48 at 17.0 and Hang Lung Properties down 0.55 at
23.1.


The property sub-index finished down 120.49 points or 0.49
percent at 24,644.21.


Among mainland financials, China Construction Bank was up 0.12 at
4.96, Bank of Communications was down 0.07 at 8.65, Bank of China
up 0.04 at 4.08, and China Merchants Bank up 0.16 at 19.84.


China Life Insurance finished flat at 25.15 after posting early
gains following news that its 2006 net profit more than doubled
to 19.96 billion yuan.


Hang Seng Bank was down 0.40 at 112.70, Bank of East Asia up 0.15
at 47.90 and BOC Hong Kong down 0.06 at 19.40.

