

South Korea is ready to open talks next month with the European
Union on a free trade agreement, President Roh Moo-Hyun said
Wednesday.


Roh, speaking after a meeting with visiting Italian Prime
Minister Romano Prodi, said they "shared a common understanding
of the enormous economic effects" such an agreement would have.


"South Korea concluded the FTA with the US despite fierce
opposition by many South Koreans," he told a joint press
conference.


"But South Korea's FTA talks with the EU may not run into any
significant resistance. We're ready to open talks with the EU in
May."


After 10 months of tough bargaining, Seoul early this month
sealed a free trade pact with Washington which scraps tariffs on
thousands of items and will boost commerce by billions of dollars
a year.


The negotiations sparked emotional protests during which a taxi
driver set himself ablaze. Huh Se-Wook died Sunday after two
weeks in hospital.


About 2,000 people rallied Wednesday to mark his death, Yonhap
news agency reported. About half of them marched to a US military
base in central Seoul, where Huh's ashes were strewn outside the
gate. No clashes were reported.


Opinion polls earlier this month showed two out of every three
South Koreans support the free trade deal with the United States,
along with more than 80 percent of big companies.


But farmers and other workers who fear for their jobs, along with
activists, staged a series of occasionally violent protests
during the negotiations.


Roh said he and Prodi agreed to cooperate more closely in the
fields of marine logistics, industrial technology, information
technology and science.


Prodi, who arrived Tuesday for a three-day visit, told the news
conference that Italy will positively consider offering
humanitarian aid to North Korea.


South Korea, which is Asia's third-largest economy, has been
holding preliminary talks with the EU for about a year. Two-way
annual trade is worth 71 billion dollars compared to 78 billion
dollars between Seoul and Washington.


The state-funded Korea Institute for International Economic
Policy has forecast that an agreement with the EU would help
South Korea expand gross domestic product by more than two
percent in the short-term.

