

Beijing taxi drivers face a lifestyle makeover before the
Olympics that will mean the end of spitting, smoking, weird
hairstyles and dangly earrings -- and the beginning of regular
baths.


Under the new regulations, which came into effect on Wednesday,
drivers whose cabs are smelly will be suspended for two days
while they undergo "rectification and reform" guidance, the
Beijing News said.


Cabbies who spit or smoke, and female taxi drivers who sport big
earrings or radical hairstyles, will also be banned under rules
aimed at improving the city's image ahead of next year's
Olympics.


Beijing's taxi drivers, who typically earn around 1,500 yuan (200
dollars) a month, often sleep, eat and smoke in their vehicles.


"Many drivers pay no attention to appearances," Yao Kuo, the head
of the transportation management office, was quoted as saying.


"Their mouths stink of garlic and their bodies smell, making the
whole cab foul. It creates a bad impression for the taxi
industry."


Yao said that outrageous dress styles were also now off limits
for drivers of the 70,000 cabs on the streets of the Chinese
capital.


"As a service industry, taxis have to think about appearances,"
Yao said.


"So from now on dying hair a bright red or yellow and making
weird hairdos is banned."


Shi Xiangpeng, a top political advisor visiting from Hong Kong
last month, complained bitterly about the odour of Beijing's
taxis.


"Sometimes I could smell an unbearable stink once I got into the
cab, but was afraid of being too rude to get out immediately," he
was quoted by Xinhua news agency as saying.


"A smelly cab, though a trivial thing, may impair the country's
international image when Beijing hosts the Olympic Games next
year, as it's not polite to the guests," he said.

