

A string of bombs planted by suspected Islamic rebels cut power
in Thailand's restive south on Wednesday and seriously injured a
senior police commander.


Three Buddhist men were also shot dead, with one later beheaded
in the Muslim- majority southern region where a bloody separatist
insurgency has killed more than 2,000 people since January 2004.


Five bomb blasts early Wednesday in Narathiwat province caused a
power blackout in 80 percent of the provincial capital, local
police said, with telephone and Internet lines also down. Power
was restored Wednesday morning.


Deputy provincial police commander Colonel Noppadon Phueaksomon
lost a leg and arm in one of the blasts, police said.


Three of the bombs exploded in Narathiwat town, while two hit the
district of Tak Bai near the Malaysian border.


"The militants wanted to black-out the whole town," said Colonel
Viroj Panichphol, a deputy police commander.


"Police have instructed security forces to intensify security
measures for fear that militants may be planning a large scale
attack."


In Narathiwat province late Tuesday, militants shot dead two
Buddhist men aged 51 and 50. They then beheaded the 50-year-old,
police said.


In nearby Pattani province, a 23-year-old police officer was shot
dead by suspected militants, also late Tuesday.


Violence has escalated in the region bordering Malaysia the past
six months, despite moves by the military-backed government to
bring peace to the troubled provinces of Yala, Narathiwat and
Pattani.


Junta spokesman Colonel Sunsern Kaewkumnerd told AFP that army
chief and junta leader General Sonthi Boonyaratglin was in the
south Wednesday, but was unable to give further details of his
visit.

