

British Prime Minister Tony Blair's campaign strategy was the
basis for French Socialist presidential candidate Segolene
Royal's run for the Elysee Palace, her domestic partner Francois
Hollande said in an interview published on Wednesday.


Speaking to The Times from the eastern French city of Lyon,
Hollande, who is also the head of Royal's Socialist Party (PS),
added that at times he purposely distanced himself from her
campaign, which he said was for her benefit.


"Blair showed how you do it," Hollande told the daily, referring
to Blair's 'Third Way' model.


"First you impose your issues and then you take over the issues
of the other side. It's simple."


Hollande and Royal have carried on a longterm relationship that
dates back to their studies at an elite political campus in
Paris. They have four children together but never married.


But Hollande has at times seemed distant from Royal as she hit
the campaign trail -- after she officially put her name forward
for the Socialist candidacy in September, for example, though
Hollande bowed out, he refused to explicitly endorse her in the
immediate aftermath.


"I didn't want to give the impression that she was under the
control of the chief," Hollande said.


"It was best to let her run her campaign some distance from the
party."


Hollande backed Royal to beat right-wing rival Nicolas Sarkozy,
saying that if Royal "reaches the second round, everyone will
look at her differently."


The first round of presidential voting in France is set for April
22, with the second round due next month.


"She will have survived trial by fire and be seen as a winner.
That is what charisma is about ... She will show that she is
peaceful and in harmony with the nation while Sarkozy generates
worry and anguish."

