

Seattle SuperSonics owner Clay Bennett said the National
Basketball Association club might try to move before its arena
lease expires in 2010 after state lawmakers nixed a new arena
plan.


The Sonics, who are finishing their 40th season in the US Pacific
Northwest, might be in line to move to Oklahoma City, which
earned praise from league officials as a temporary home for the
New Orleans Hornets the past two seasons.


"Clearly at this time the Sonics... have little hope of remaining
in the Puget Sound region," said Bennett, who is based in
Oklahoma City and has made no secret about his desire to see his
home city have an NBA team all its own.


The Hornets, forced to relocate for most of the past two seasons
after the damage of Hurricane Katrina in their home city, will
return to New Orleans next season on a full-time basis.


Washington state lawmakers voted Monday not to consider a bill
that would finance a new 500 million-dollar arena, seen as a
vital step to keep the Sonics from seeking a new home elsewhere.


The Sonics would have to remain in Seattle next season, having
missed last month's NBA deadline to notify for a possible
relocation, but would be able to start the 2008-2009 season in a
new home city.


"This a staggering and quite likely a debilitating blow to our
efforts to develop a world-class arena facility," Bennett said.


"By its inaction the legislature has delivered the message that
they are indifferent to the notion of the Sonics leaving the
market."


Bennett's 350 million-dollar purchase of the Sonics was not
finalized by the NBA until last November and the deal reportedly
includes an out clause that allows Bennett to relocate unless a
new arena deal is in place by the end of next October. State
lawmakers would not typically reconvene before January.


The Sonics are 31-50 and 10 games out of a playoff berth this
season.

