

A former Rwandan military commander faces trial in Brussels on
Thursday for the 1994 murders of former Rwandan prime minister
Agathe Uwilingiyimana and 10 Belgian UN soldiers who were
protecting her.


Bernard Ntuyahaga is accused of overseeing the killings on April
7, 1994, just hours after Rwandan Hutu President Juvenal
Habyarimana was killed when his plane was downed the previous
evening.


That assassination sparked the genocide in which some 800,000
people -- mainly minority Tutsis and moderate Hutus -- were
massacred by Hutu extremists in the tiny central African country.


The UN troops, who had arrived to protect Uwilingiyimana, were
taken off to the "Camp Kigali" barracks where they were brutally
killed by Rwandan troops.


The killing of the peacekeepers shocked Belgium and the country
withdrew its personnel from the country immediately afterwards.


The perpetrators of the attack on the plane carrying president
Habyarimana have never been identified.


It is the third "Rwandan" trial to be held in Brussels.


In a landmark trial in June 2001, a Belgian court sentenced four
Rwandans, including two nuns, to between 12 and 20 years in
prison for their roles in the massacres.


In June 2005 a court sentenced two businessmen from northern
Rwanda to 10 and 12 years in prison after finding them guilty of
war crimes and murder linked to the 1994 genocide.


In the latest case, Belgium's federal prosecutor believes that
Ntuyahaga played a crucial role in the dawn killing of
Uwilingiyimana, who was preparing to deliver a radio appeal for
national unity.


The 10 UN blue helmet troops were then brutally massacred by
soldiers who accused them of bringing down Habyarimana's plane.


Ntuyahaga also faces charges of killing five of his neighbours
and an "unknown number" of other people in Kigali and Butare.


Facing a possible life sentence, the accused denies all the
charges.


Over the eight weeks which the case is expected to take, some 150
witnesses -- including investigators, experts and UN military
officers and troops -- will be called to give evidence.


Romeo Dallaire, the Canadian commander of the UN mission is
expected to appear in court on May 10. He has faced criticism for
failing to prevent the deaths of the Belgian troops.


No member of the Belgian government of the day is expected to
appear in court.


"We still don't know who gave Major Ntuyahaga the orders to take
the paras to Camp Kigali", said one of their widows, Beatrice
Bassinne, ahead of the trial.


For her it is clear that the killings were aimed at provoking the
withdrawal of UN troops from the country.


One key figure who definitely won't be in the court is Rwandan
Colonel Theoneste Bagosora, suspected of being the "brains"
behind the genocide.


Bagosora, the cabinet director of Rwanda's defense ministry when
the genocide began, and three other senior army officers are
charged with genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes and
conspiracy to commit genocide.


They have all pleaded not guilty to the charges, which include
the killings of the 10 Belgian troops, at the International
Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (ICTR) in Arusha, Tanzania.


The tribunal has often been accused of sluggishness in its
investigations and since it began trials in 1997, the UN tribunal
has convicted only 21 people and acquitted three others.

