

Britain ignored a warning from a senior health official about the
risk of contaminated blood being provided by the state health
service to thousands of haemophiliacs, the BBC reported Tuesday.


Citing documents it had obtained from haemophilia campaigners and
sufferers, the broadcaster said that even though experts were
aware of the threat of contaminated blood being given to patients
in the early 1980s, transfusions were not stopped.


Haemophilia is the name used to describe various hereditary
genetic illnesses that limit the body's ability to control
bleeding.


The report comes just a day before an independent inquiry into
the supply of contaminated blood by the government-run National
Health Service begins.


According to the BBC, in May 1983, the head of Britain's public
health surveillance centre, who was not named on the BBC website,
wrote a letter to the Department of Health warning of the risk of
AIDS from Factor 8, calling for all imports from the United
States to be banned.


Haemophiliacs taking Factor 8 at the time were unaware that much
of the clotting agent's plasma came from donors like prison
inmates in the United States.


Despite questions over their health, those donors were still
allowed to sell their blood, and Factor 8 imports continued to be
used.


The BBC said that in the 1970s and 1980s, about 4,500 British
haemophilia patients were exposed to potentially lethal diseases
in their blood products, and around 2,000 have since died of
either Hepatitis C or HIV.


The Department of Health told the BBC that it had been open and
transparent on the issue in the past, and was reviewing all its
documents on Hepatitis C from between 1970 and 1985.


"Reference to HIV is made in some of the documents, and we plan
to release as many of these documents as possible," the
department said in a statement to the broadcaster.

