

The World Health Organisation on Wednesday called for Vietnam to
minimise the country's huge human loss in traffic accidents,
which has become a national epidemic.


Vietnam reports one of the world's highest road death tolls, with
33 fatalities a day, resulting in more than 12,300 victims last
year, according to the National Traffic Safety Committee.


"Traffic accidents in Vietnam have reached epidemic proportions,"
said Hans Troedsson,  WHO director in Vietnam, at a Hanoi
conference to launch the inaugural United Nations Global Road
Safety Week.


"Road safety is not just a public health issue, but an economic
and social issue," he said, citing an Asian Development Bank
estimate that 885 million dollars is lost from Vietnam's economy
every year because of traffic accidents.


There is widespread disregard for regulations and speed limits
throughout the communist country.


Few of the 85 million population wear helmets although there are
about 18 million registered motorbikes on the streets.
Authorities have repeatedly tried to encourage the helmet wearing
habit but encountered public refusal.


"Vietnam needs to make helmet use mandatory on all roads and
effectively enforce it," Troedsson said, considering it one of
the most significant measures to reduce human loss and head
injuries.


About 40 percent of the country's total severe road traffic
crashes have been caused by youths aged between 15 and 24, who
account for 20 percent of the population, he added.


Transport minister Ho Nghia Dung quoted a survey by Ho Chi Minh
City's Cho Ray hospital, saying about 85 percent of traffic
accidents have involved motorcyclists.


The UN Global Road Safety Week targets young road users.

