

The assassinated Nagasaki mayor's son-in-law, a journalist with
no experience in public office, said Wednesday he plans to run
for the slain man's job in elections just four days away.


Mayor Iccho Ito, 61, was gunned down by a gangster Tuesday in a
rare shooting in Japan.


Makoto Yokoo, 40, told an emotionally charged press conference he
would try to take over his father-in-law's mantle.


Yokoo, who is not from Nagasaki, is a Tokyo-based journalist
covering the prime minister's office for the Nishinippon Shimbun,
a Kyushu island newspaper.


"As a journalist, I have always distanced myself from ... Iccho
Ito. I was trying to keep the balance between politics and
journalism," said Yokoo, adding he had not yet told his own
parents of his decision to run.


Yokoo, who met Ito's eldest daughter, also a journalist, while
working, said he had changed his mind after rushing to Nagasaki
late Tuesday and seeing his father-in-law in hospital.


"When I saw his face stained with blood and hooked up to tubes, I
knew this wasn't right," Yokoo said. "Why did this happen to a
man who loved the city of Nagasaki so much and work so hard?


"Since I'm close to him, I thought I cannot ignore this," he
said. "This is someting I never thought about before, but someone
has to carry on the job that Iccho Ito wanted to do."


Yokoo, who with his thick intellectual glasses blended in with
the journalists he was addressing, acknowledged he had not
decided on many issues or even whether to affiliate himself with
a party ahead of Sunday's vote.


"I have to study the issues," he said. In the campaign, "I will
talk about just one point and that is carrying on what Iccho Ito
wanted to do".


Ito, an independent, was backed by Japan's major parties,
although two independents and a communist were running against
him.

