

Oil prices gained in Asian trade Wednesday in a market supported
by worries over tight gasoline (petrol) supplies in the United
States, dealers said.


At 2:13 pm (0613 GMT), New York's main oil futures contract,
light sweet crude for delivery in May, was 16 cents higher at
63.26 dollars a barrel, from 63.10 dollars in late US trades when
it fell 51 cents.


Brent North Sea crude for June delivery was up 25 cents, at 66.18
dollars, after a fall of 1.32 dollars in London.


"I think the market has come up quite a bit and people took
profit," said Tony Nunan, of Mitsubishi Corp's international
petroleum business in Tokyo.


But he said prices are still receiving support from concerns over
the outlook for US gasoline supplies ahead of the US summer
holiday driving season which gets underway next month.


"The situation in America with gasoline is still very strong,"
Nunan said.


John Kilduff, at Fimat USA, said earlier that the US Department
of Energy's weekly inventory report due later Wednesday was
likely to show "a familiar pattern with builds of crude oil and
draws of refined products stocks."


This has highlighted the fact that despite ample crude oil
supplies, the US market may see a tight gasoline situation
because of refinery problems.


Dealers also expressed concern surrounding political violence in
Nigeria, Africa's largest crude producer.


Kilduff said this Saturday's presidential elections there could
lead to "renewed violence that could again disrupt oil supplies."


At least 21 people died last weekend during state polls in the
country, where foreigners working in the oil-rich south have
frequently been kidnapped.


But Nunan said the unrest has become a chronic problem.


"I think all of this was already priced in," he said.

