

Sony Corp.'s game division said Wednesday that it may cut up to
160 jobs in Europe to streamline its operations as the
PlayStation 3 battles fierce competition from rival video game
consoles.


Sony Computer Entertainment decided to revamp its European
operations in response to a shift in video game entertainment
towards more interactive gaming and increasingly sophisticated
content, said company spokeswoman Nanako Kato.


"We decided to streamline the company and also streamline some of
the positions ... to reshuffle the company a little more to have
more competitiveness," she added.


She said that some of the positions could be eliminated through a
hiring freeze and that the number of layoffs had not yet been
decided but it would be no more than 160 out of the European
unit's workforce of about 1,900.


Sony has much riding on the success of the PS3, which it finally
launched in Europe on March 22 after a long delay due to a glitch
with the high-definition DVD player.


Sony set an ambitious target of selling six million consoles
globally in the year to March 2007 but expects to make an
operating loss in the game division after spending heavily on new
technologies such as the "Cell" microprocessor.


The console faces intense competition from Nintendo's Wii and
Microsoft's Xbox 360 which both have a much lower price tag.


Sony chief executive Howard Stringer said in a newspaper
interview this week that the game unit was close to selling
800,000 units of the new console in Europe since its launch.


The electronics giant first released the PS3 last year in key
North American and Asian markets where it struggled to meet
shipment targets after the production problems with the DVD
player.

