

Nepal's anti-corruption commission has summoned 10 royalist
former ministers to answer allegations they misused power and
state funds during King Gyanendra's rule, officials said
Wednesday.


The demand comes amid mounting pressure on the Himalayan nation's
monarchy, which faces dissolution after mainstream political
parties split from royal policy and struck a peace deal with
fiercely-republican Maoist rebels last year.


"We have issued letters to ten former royal ministers and one
regional administrator to appear before the commission in the
next seven days for interrogation," anti-graft chief Lalit
Bahadur Limbu told AFP.


Those called in by the Commission for the Investigation of Abuse
of Authority include former foreign minister Ramesh Nath Pandey
and Tulsi Giri, a former vice chairman of the council of
ministers.


Gyanendra, who sacked the government in February 2005 and assumed
direct control of the impoverished nation as head of the council
of ministers, was forced to relinquish power and restore
parliament after mass protests in April last year.


With the Maoists then agreeing to end their 10-year-old
insurgency and sign up for peace, authorities have since been
chipping away at the king's power base.


He has been stripped of most of his powers, and a government
panel has also recommended legal action against royal ministers
and high-ranking government officials for their role in
suppressing the pro-democracy movement.


The former rebels joined the government early this month. They
took five portfolios in a cabinet tasked with steering the
impoverished nation into new elections, which will lead to a
decision on whether the country keeps its monarchy.

