

Japanese share prices rose 0.69 percent in morning trade
Wednesday after the Dow Jones flirted with an all-time record
high overnight following upbeat earnings news, dealers said.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
gained 121.21 points to 17,648.66 by the lunch break.


The broader Nikkei-225 index of all first-section shares added
12.24 points or 0.71 percent to 1,728.35.


Gainers beat decliners 1,170 to 446, with 105 stocks flat.


Volume rose to 900 million shares from 893 million on Tuesday
morning.


"There was bargain-hunting interest after (Tuesday's) falls,
which occurred despite rises in US shares on the previous day,"
said Tatsuo Kurokawa, chief technical analyst at Japan Asia
Research Institute.


"Investors reacted more briskly to lower share prices than to a
firmer yen," added Kurokawa.


Dealers said despite encouraging data on the US housing market,
investors still expect the Nikkei 225 to continue rangebound
near-term ahead of the start of the full-year earnings reporting
season in Japan next week.


Carmakers were mostly higher, with Toyota Motor up 90 yen or 1.24
percent at 7,340 and Honda Motor added 50 or 1.23 percent at
4,100.


Tech stocks were mixed to higher, with Sony flat at 6,540 and
Matsushita Electric Industrial up 15 yen or 0.62 percent at
2,430.


Fujitsu shed 13 yen or 1.61 percent to 796 after the electronics
giant cut its operating profit forecast while raising its net
earnings projection.


Cosmo Oil inched up three yen or 0.61 percent to 497 on muted
investor reaction to the company's announcement that it had
raised its net profit forecast for the year ended last month by
47 percent.

