

An Australian scientist emerged unscathed Wednesday after
spending 12 days in an underwater capsule where he had to create
his own oxygen with algae and generate electricity on an exercise
bike.


Self-confessed "nutcase" Lloyd Godson lived at the bottom of a
flooded quarry in a yellow steel capsule measuring just nine
square metres to demonstrate how a closed ecological system can
work.


Godson admitted suffering mild cabin fever during his time in the
underwater tank, which used a revolutionary Israeli-developed
"Biocoil" system to generate oxygen from algae soaked with the 27
-year-old's urine.


"It's nice to feel the sunshine on the face and the breeze here,"
Godson said after surfacing from the quarry near Albury, on the
New South Wales-Victoria state border.


"It starts to play on your mind a bit after 12 days obviously.
You start to get a bit of cabin fever, but you know I handled it
surprisingly well.


"I thought it was going to drive me a bit more nuts than it did."


Godson won funding from Australian Geographic magazine for his
project, which was designed to provide data on the practicalities
and psychological pressures of living in an alien environment.


The marine scientist, who was remotely monitored by a
psychologist during his underwater experience, said the
information could help future planning for extended missions by
submarines or space vessels.


"It's the first time this has been done so it's paving the way
for future experiments in this area... like plant-based life-
support systems for underwater or space applications, or whatever
it may be," he said.


"We got some good data down there so it will be interesting now
when we analyse all that and the right people will see it and
we'll work on making improvements for the next one."

