

A senior Hong Kong civil servant is hoping to use the courts to
challenge his government bosses after they blamed him for a
bodged music festival, the judiciary said Wednesday.


Mike Rowse has applied to the southern Chinese territory's courts
for leave to apply for a judicial review of disciplinary
proceedings against him.


Rowse, who heads the city's investment promotion agency InvestHK,
was singled out for blame by an official inquiry into the dismal
failure of the 2003 Harbour Fest concerts, which cost taxpayers
100 million Hong Kong dollars (12.8 million US dollars).


The month-long festival featured shows by rockers the Rolling
Stones and Neil Young, as well as gigs by local pop stars
including Twins.


It was designed to boost the city's international profile after a
Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) outbreak brought Hong
Kong close to economic collapse.


But poor ticket sales, a lack of promotion and scandals linked to
the handing out of free tickets made the event a laughing stock.


Rowse was eventually fined more than 156,000 dollars after a
disciplinary hearing found him guilty of failing to control the
event's budget.


An appeal was rejected by deputy leader and head of the civil
service Rafael Hui late last year.


In his suit lodged with the courts Monday, Rowse claims that the
hearing was flawed and that Hui was not eligible to deal with the
case.


Rowse, one of the last British civil servants to retain a senior
government post since the city reverted from British colonial
rule in 1997, also claims members of a panel that heard his case
had ulterior motives in blaming him for the mess- up.

