

Emabattled 2006 Tour de France winner Floyd Landis made a
fundraising appearance at a suburban bicycle store here Tuesday
even as retests of his doping samples were being done in France.


The 31-year-old American is combating the positive doping test he
received after stage 17 of last year's French cycling classic,
showing he had a ratio of testosterone to epitestosterone that
was higher than allowed.


Landis claims errors by the French lab processing the tests,
including improper labels and contamination of samples, caused
the positive outcome and makes the result unreliable.


Next month, Landis will make his case to the US Anti-Doping
Agency (USADA) at an arbitration hearing with a goal of clearing
his name and reputation and preserving his triumph.


"We can't undo the damage that's been done. We can't fix it,"
Landis said. "But we don't want the next person to have to go
through this."


The same French lab Landis has complained about started analyzing
the "B" sample of Landis' urine tests on Monday at the request of
USADA and process is expected to take about 10 days, although
Landis argued against having the samples tested by the same labs
he says botched his earlier tests.


Landis, who argeed not to race in this year's Tour de France to
delay a French probe into the matter, would become the first
rider in more than a century of Tour de France history to be
stripped of the title and could face a four-year competition ban
that would effectively end his career.


"I didn't do anything to cause this," Landis said. "I was clearly
convicted in the court of public opinion."


At his appearance, supporters paid at least 25 dollars for an
autograph and the chance to pose with Landis for photographs.


It was the latest stop on what has become a nationwide tour to
raise money to defray legal costs of his fight - more than one
million dollars so far.

