

Bangladesh's last prime minister Khaleda Zia has agreed to
demands from the country's military-backed authorities that she
leave by April 22, an aide said Wednesday.


Zia is one of the highest-profile figures to be targeted by
emergency-ruled Bangladesh's interim government, in the midst of
a major crackdown on corruption and clean-up of the country's
political system.


"She has been asked to leave the country by April 22," a close
aide told AFP on condition he not be named. He added she would
leave the country for Saudi Arabia before the deadline on Sunday.


Officials and close aides to Zia said earlier she had agreed to
leave quietly in return for leniency for her two sons, both of
whom faced graft and extortion charges.


The Amar Desh Bengali-language daily, which is owned by Zia's
political secretary, reported Wednesday that she would leave with
the family of her younger son Arafat Rahman.


The Ittefaq newspaper also said Zia, 61, and six members of her
family had received visas from the Saudia Arabian embassy.


Zia was prime minister until her five-year term ended in October
and together with her arch rival Sheikh Hasina Wajed has been
blamed for steering the country into political chaos.


The two women have ruled the country alternately since democracy
was reintroduced in 1991.


A military-backed interim government took power in January after
President Iajuddin Ahmed declared a state of emergency and
cancelled planned elections following months of political
violence between loyalists of the two women.


An ensuing crackdown has seen dozens of top officials from Zia's
Bangladesh Nationalist Party (BNP) and Sheikh Hasina's Awami
League arrested. Zia herself has been under virtual house arrest
since last week.

