

Australian share prices closed up 0.81 percent at fresh record
highs Wednesday on a positive lead from Wall Street and strength
in the banking and resource sectors, dealers said.


The benchmark SP/ASX 200 closed up 50.4 points at a record
6,236.9, and the broader All Ordinaries also closed at an all-
time high, rising 46.1 points to 6,215.0. Both indices exceeded
previous records set Monday.


A total of 1.68 billion shares worth 6.36 billion dollars (5.3
billion US), with 692 stocks up, 582 down and 346 unchanged.


Dealers said explosives and paint manufacturer Orica soared after
rejecting a buyout proposal from a private equity consortium
pitched at 32.00 dollars a share, valuing the group at about 9.9
billion dollars.


Orica shares surged 5.61 dollars or 20.11 percent to finish at
33.50, while rival Dyno Nobel jumped 0.17 or 7.36 percent to
2.48.


Aequs Securities head of institutional trading Ric Klusman said
merger and acquisition activity coupled with support for miners
following rises in metal drove the market to fresh record highs.


"Attention was really on Orica following it rejecting a private
equity offer," Klusman said.


"Overall, there was a lot of green on the screen today with the
only insurance stocks showing a bit of weakness," Klusman said.


He said cashed-up pension funds were supporting prices due to
takeover activity and share buybacks outstripping new issues.


AMP Capital Investors head of investment strategy, Shane Oliver,
said liquidity conditions were providing a favorable backdrop for
investment markets.


Oliver said a combination of takeovers and strong fund inflows
has the potential to keep demand for local shares strong over the
next six months.


In resources, BHP Billiton shares rose 0.34 to close at 30.40 and
Rio Tinto climbed 1.09 to 84.50.


Telecoms giant Telstra slipped 0.03 to 4.74, while Optus-owner
SingTel fell 0.06 to 2.77.


Among the major banks, National Australia Bank jumped 0.84 to a
record 44.02, Commonwealth Bank advanced 0.65 to a record 53.30,
ANZ gained 0.24 to an all- time high of 31.27 and Westpac was up
0.46 to a record 27.49.


Qantas slipped 0.01 to 5.37 and discount rival Virgin Blue lost
0.09 to 2.62.

