

Australian explosives, paint and chemicals group Orica Ltd
Wednesday rejected a 10 billion dollar (8.4 billion US) takeover
bid, saying the offer undervalued the business.


A consortium of local and overseas private equity firms had
pitched a 32.00 dollars per share buy-out, valuing the group at
some 9.9 billion dollars.


But Orica, whose shares jumped 6.11 dollars to 34.00 dollars in
early trading Wednesday, said the bid was too low.


"The board of Orica has carefully considered the consortium's
proposal and believes that it significantly undervalues Orica and
its growth prospects," chairman Don Mercer said.


In rejecting the bid from Bain Capital Partners, Blackstone
Capital Partners, Pacific Equity Partners and Morgan Stanley
Principal Investments, Mercer said the company's total
shareholder returns over the last five years had been more than
500 percent.


"Orica has been through a substantial portfolio transition over
that time, including the recent Dyno Nobel and Minova
acquisitions, and the divestment of various non-core businesses
such as interests in Incitec Pivot, Qenos and Adhesives Resins,"
he said.


"Integration of recent acquisitions is progressing well, with
synergies flowing through in line with or ahead of plan."


Orica said it expected to find opportunities to grow the business
and improve productivity as it focuses on portfolio and balance
sheet management.


The company also said it was confident that net profit before
significant items for fiscal 2007 would exceed the 380.3 million
dollars of the previous financial year.

