

China CITIC Bank, the nation's seventh largest bank, jumped 55
percent on its trading debut in Shanghai Friday after the year's
largest initial public offering so far, dealers said.


The stock on the Shanghai bourse hit 9.00 yuan (1.16 dollars) in
early trade, well above expectations for a range of 6.50 to 8.0
yuan, they said.


CITIC Bank said it raised net proceeds of 13.06 billion yuan from
its IPO in Shanghai and about 27.62 billion Hong Kong dollars
(3.54 billion US) from a Hong Kong sale.


The lender, which also listed in Hong Kong Friday, sold 2.302
billion A-shares in Shanghai at 5.8 yuan per share and 4.885
billion H-shares in Hong Kong at 5.86 Hong Kong dollars each.


"CITIC Bank's opening price was too high," said Qiu Zhicheng, a
banking analyst at Haitong Securities.


"I expect CITIC Bank to fall back to a reasonable valuation of
around seven yuan after the overly optimistic sentiment
subsides," Qiu added.


Despite the heady rise, it is common in China for the shares of
newly listed companies to see a huge run-up on the opening day of
trade and then fall back as smaller investors look to pocket
quick profits.


CITIC Bank's listing comes as China encourages its large firms to
list at home in to help soak up abundant liquidity and steady a
market which has soared since the beginning of 2006.


The Beijing-based bank is the sixth Chinese lender to list in
Hong Kong since Bank of Communications's pioneering sale in 2005,
as regulators have pushed banks to become joint-stock companies
to shore up their books and clear debt- weakened balance sheets.


Bank of China, one of China's top state held banks in terms of
assets, was the first to engineer a dual listing in Hong Kong and
Shanghai.


The broader market was weaker, with the benchmark Shanghai
Composite Index, down 15.38 points or 0.41 percent to 3,767.38.
The Shanghai A-share index fell 0.42 percent to 3,959.17 while
the Shenzhen A-share index was down 0.47 percent to 1,102.84

