

AFP news calendar


Monday, April 30 to Sunday, May 27:


-----------------------------------


Monday, April 30


----------------


ANKARA: Presidents Pervez Musharraf of Pakistan and Hamid Karzai
of Afghanistan meet to try to resolve tensions between their
countries.


ASTANA/ALMATY: UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Louise
Arbour visits (to May 2).


BANGKOK: The UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change meets
(to May 4).


BELFAST: Smoking ban goes into effect in all public places and
workplaces in Northern Ireland.


HANOI: Vietnam's Liberation Day. British pop star Gary Glitter,
jailed in Vietnam for child molestation, is expected to ask for a
reduced sentence in the annual amnesty declared in the lead-up to
Vietnam's Liberation Day.


KUWAIT: Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, on a Gulf tour,
arrives in Kuwait, meets Kuwaiti emir, prime minister.


PHNOM PENH: Foreign and Cambodian Khmer Rouge tribunal judges
meet in last ditch bid to approve internal rules needed for
genocide trials to go forward.


SANAA: Trial continues against suspect accused of attacking the
US embassy in Sanaa.


THE HAGUE: Queensday celebrations.


VANCOUVER: Trial resumes of Canada's suspected worst serial
killer, pig-farmer Robert Pickton.


VIENNA: The international community begins its five-yearly review
of the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty with a meeting of the NPT
Preparatory Committee in Vienna (to May 11).


Tuesday, May 1


----------------


BAGHDAD/WASHINGTON: Four years since US President George W. Bush
declared the end of "major combat" in Iraq from the deck of a US
aircraft carrier emblazoned with the banner "Mission
Accomplished".


COLOMBO: Sri Lanka's President Mahinda Rajapakse to unveil his
ruling party's proposals to end 35 years of ethnic bloodshed.


KUWAIT: Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe visits Japanese forces
at military base before leaving for Doha.


DOHA: Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe arrives in Doha, meets
Prime Minister Hamad.


MANILA: Philippines marks Labor Day and sixth anniversary of
failed uprising by supporters of deposed leader Joseph Estrada.


NEW YORK: The Webbies, the Internet equivalent of the Oscars, are
awarded.


CITIES IN EUROPE AND ASIA: Traditional May Day rallies.


Wednesday, May 2


----------------


BERLIN: Second national conference on Islam, with the government
and representatives from the German Muslim community
participating.


CAIRO: Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe arrives in Cairo for
talks with President Hosni Mubarak followed by news conference.
Returns to Tokyo May 3.


- Verdict expected in trial of Houaida Taha, Al-Jazeera
journalist accused of hurting Egyptian national interest.


ISLAMABAD: Pakistan's Supreme Judicial Council hears charges
lodged by President Pervez Musharraf against the country's top
judge.


JAMESTOWN, Virginia: Queen Elizabeth II attends ceremony marking
establishment of first English colony in America 400 years ago.


JERUSALEM: Israel's President Moshe Katsav presents his defence
on charges including rape and sexual harassment to the attorney
general who will then make a definitive decision on an
indictment.


LONDON: Tenth anniversary of Prime Minister Tony Blair taking
office.


LONDON: Extradition hearing on former Algerian businessman Rafik
Khalifa, accused of corruption.


TUNIS: Annual Jewish pilgrimage to El Ghriba, the oldest African
synagogue on the Tunisian island of Djerba (to 5).


Thursday, May 3


---------------


EDINBURGH: Scottish parliamentary elections.


LONDON: British municipal elections.


CARDIFF: Welsh parliamentary elections.


SHARM EL-SHEIKH, Egypt: Two-day high-level international
conference on Iraq (and 4).


MOSCOW: Visit of Slovakian Prime Minister Robert Fico (and 4).


- Auction of large subsidiary of former top Russian petroleum
company Yukos for 5.4 billion dollars (4.2 billion euros).


SIMI CITY, California: Republican presidential candidates hold
first debate.


Friday, May 4


---------------


ASHKHABAD: UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Louise Arbour
visits (to 5).


CAIRO: President Hosni Mubarak turns 79.


BANJUL: Trial resumes of US-based Gambian journalist Fatou Jaw
Manneh accused of sedition.


Saturday, May 5


---------------


LISBON/OPORTO: Demonstration for the legalisation of marijuana.


MACAU: Macau Arts Festival (until June 2).


Sunday, May 6


-------------


DILI: Campaigning ends for second and final round of East
Timorese presidential elections to be held on May 9.


DRESDEN, Germany: Meeting of G8 labour ministers.


OUAGADOUGOU: Burkina Faso legislative elections.


PARIS: Second round of French presidential elections.


LISBON: Madeira regional election.


Monday, May 7


---------------


ALGIERS: Third International Finance Forum (to May 9).


BONN: Experts for parties to UN climate convention hold
conference (to May 18).


BRUSSELS: Meeting of eurozone finance ministers.


BRUSSELS: EU agriculture ministers meet (and 8).


KUALA LUMPUR: Malaysia hosts the second World Halal Forum (until
May 8).


SEOUL: South Korea and the European Union open talks on
establishing a free- trade agreement (to May 11).


Tuesday, May 8


---------------


BANGKOK: Thailand and the United States open their annual war
games, the biggest US military exercises in Asia (to May 18).


BELFAST: Rival Protestant and Catholic leaders in Belfast
expected to resume power-sharing after a landmark accord.


BRUSSELS: Meeting of European finance ministers (ECOFIN).


THE HAGUE: Preliminary hearings ahead of a trial at the Special
Tribunal for Sierra Leone of former Liberian leader Charles
Taylor, who faces charges of committing war crimes and crimes
against humanity.


LUCKNOW, India: Final round of a month-long seven-phase assembly
poll in Uttar Pradesh, India's largest state.


MADRID: 25th International Drug Enforcement Conference (IDEC)(to
11).


NEW YORK: Time magazine publishes its list of the 200 most
influential people on the planet.


SANAA: Verdict expected in the case of Yemeni tribesmen accused
of kidnapping four French tourists.


Wednesday, May 9


---------------


COPENHAGEN: Swedish King Carl XVI Gustaf, Queen Silvia and Crown
Princess Victoria make a state visit to Denmark (to May 11).


GENEVA: World Trade Organisation council meeting.


HONG KONG: Appeal begins against sentence of Chan Nai-ming, the
first person to be jailed for sharing Hollywood films on Bit
Torrent file sharing technology.


LISBON: Fatima pilgrimage with the celebration of the 90th
anniversary of apparitions.


LONDON: "Lord of the Rings" musical unveiled ahead of official
premiere on June 19.


MUMBAI: Sentencing due to start for 100 people convicted for
roles in deadly bomb blasts in Mumbai in 1993 that left 257
people dead.


SEOUL: North and South Korea hold another round of face to face
reunions for separated families.


Thursday, May 10


---------------


BANGKOK: Family of Urairat Soimee, a deceased victim of human
trafficking, sues her alleged abductors in the first such civil
case in Thailand.


BEIRUT: Trial resumes of six Lebanese accused of participating in
foiled plot against trains in Germany last year.


DAMASCUS: Verdict in the trial of Kamal Labouani, a Syrian
opposition figure accused of contacts with the United States
meant to incite "aggression against Syria".


GOTHENBURG, Sweden: Some 40 naval vessels and 7,000 personnel
attend opening ceremonies at Gothenburg naval dockyard of major
two-week NATO exercise "Noble Mariner", to be carried out in
Polish and Swedish waters (to May 13).


LISBON: World tourism conference (to May 12).


LONDON: Miles Cooper, accused of sending letter bombs in February
that injured eight, to appear at Oxford Crown Court.


MOSCOW: Auction of assets of former leading Russian petroleum
company Yukos in the south of Russia for about six billion
dollars (4.6 billion euros).


TUNIS: 13th edition of the Mediterranean Tourism Market (to 12).


VICTORIA: Legislative elections in The Seychelles (to 12).


Friday, May 11


---------------


HANOI: Vietnamese dissidents Nguyen Van Dai and Le Thi Cong Nhan
scheduled to face one-day trial for spreading propaganda against
the communist state.


LUCKNOW, India: Votes to be counted after the month-long assembly
elections in India's most populous Uttar Pradesh state.


RABAT: Trial of two Belgians of Moroccan descent accused of
terrorism.


Saturday, May 12


---------------


HELSINKI: 52nd annual Eurovision song contest.


REYKJAVIK: Icelandic legislative election.


ROME: Demonstrations organised by Catholic associations against
Italian plan for civil unions.


YEREVAN: Armenian legislative election.


Sunday, May 13


---------------


BAMAKO: Second round of Mali's presidential election


LONDON: Classical Brit Awards with Paul McCartney and Sting among
the nominees.


Monday, May 14


---------------


BANGKOK: The wife of ousted prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra is
arraigned on tax evasion charges.


BERLIN: EU defence, foreign and cooperation ministers meet.


BRUSSELS: Meeting of foreign affairs ministers (and 15).


GENEVA: World Health Organization assembly starts (to May 23).


MANILA: Philippines holds mid-term election for half of the 24
member Senate, all 250 seats of the House of Representatives and
thousands of local posts from mayors to governors.


MARIEHAMN, Finland: Hans Blix, the former UN chief weapons
inspector, now head of the independent Swedish Weapons of Mass
Destruction Commission, visits the Aaland Peace Institute (to May
15).


NEW YORK: Mayors of world capitals and businessmen gather for
conference on climate change (to May 17).


ROME: Trial continues against absent US soldier Mario Lozano,
accused in the killing of Italian secret agent Nicola Calipari in
Iraq.


WARSAW: Visit of Slovenian Prime Minister Janez Jansa.


Tuesday, May 15


---------------


BAD PYRMONT, Germany: EU family ministers meet.


BAKU: Former Azerbaijani economic development minister Farhad
Aliyev and his brother Rafiq Aliyev, the former head of the
country's oil company, go on trial on charges of plotting to
overthrow the government.


OSLO: Iran's former reformist president Mohammad Khatami visits
the Oslo Centre for Peace and Human Rights to take part in a
seminar on dialogue between the western and Muslim worlds (to May
17).


PETRA, Jordan: 40 Nobel laureates and other public figures
convene for "Petra III: Building a Better World" a conference
hosted by King Abdullah II (to May 16).


SINGAPORE: Start of IMDEX Asia, a regional maritime defence
conference and trade show (until May 18).


WASHINGTON: Federal Appeals Court examines suit lodged by
Guantanamo detainees against a procedure giving them the status
of "illegal combatants".


- US President George W. Bush meets Swedish Prime Minister
Frederik Reinfeldt.


Wednesday, May 16


---------------


ANKARA: End of Turkish President Ahmet Necdet's term in office.


CANNES, France: Opening of the 60th Cannes Film Festival (to May
27).


KATHMANDU: Appeal for Charles Sobhraj, dubbed the "Bikini
Killer", against his murder conviction.


LONDON: Hearing for US extradition request for Abu Hamza, accused
of terrorist acts.


- Christie's auction of a life-vest from the Titanic.


PARIS: Official end of President Jacques Chirac's term in office.


TANGIER, Morocco: Jazz festival.


Thursday, May 17


---------------


ALGIERS: Algerian legislative election.


SEOUL: North and South Korea hold test run on reconnected train
lines over their heavily fortified border.


Friday, May 18


---------------


SAMARA, Russia: EU-Russia summit.


DEAD SEA, Jordan: World Economic Forum meets on the banks of the
Dead Sea.


Saturday, May 19


-----------------


BUCHAREST: Romania holds referendum on whether to impeach
President Traian Basescu for allegedly violating the constitution
19 times.


VIENNA: Placido Domingo at the Vienna Opera.


Sunday, May 20


---------------


BRUSSELS: Informal meeting of agriculture ministers (and 21).


HANOI: National Assembly election in Communist Vietnam.


SOFIA: Election of European parliament members, following
Bulgaria's EU membership on Jan 1.


Monday, May 21


---------------


BRATISLAVA: Dutch Queen Beatrix visits (to May 23).


BRUSSELS: EU competition ministers meet.


STRASBOURG: European parliament holds plenary session (to May
24).


VIENNA: The OSCE holds conference on the fight against human
trafficking.


Tuesday, May 22


---------------


LONDON: Chelsea Flower Show (to May 26).


NICE, France: The young wife of an elderly British aristocrat,
Lord Shaftesbury, and her brother go on trial for his murder.


OSLO: Former US president Bill Clinton attends a series of
conferences (to May 23).


PARIS: Verdict in appeals trial of 14 people accused of
participating in Islamic extremist plots against France between
2001 and 2002.


TALLINN: Baltic defence ministers meet in the Estonian capital.


Wednesday, May 23


---------------


MUNICH, Germany: G8 interior and justice ministers meet (to May
25).


UPPSALA, Sweden: Japan's Emperor Akihito and Empress Michiko
attend ceremonies marking the 300th anniversary of the birth of
Swedish botanist and zoologist Carl Linne.


VIENNA: Russian President Vladimir Putin visits (to May 24).


- New IAEA report on Iran expected to be published.


Thursday, May 24


---------------


BRUSSELS: EU education ministers meet (and May 25).


Friday, May 25


---------------


BRUSSELS: Foreign ministers from the EU and the ACP (Africa,
Caribbean, Pacific regions) meet.


LOS ANGELES: 30th anniversary of the first film in the "Star
Wars" saga.


RABAT: Terrorism trial of the group Ansar El Mahdi.


YEREVAN: New Armenian parliament sits.


Saturday, May 26


---------------


TUNIS: Trial of Salafist Islamic militants.


VIENNA: Life Ball 2007.


VILNIUS: Japanese Emperor Akihito visits.


Sunday, May 27


---------------


MADRID: Regional and municipal elections in much of Spain.


ROME: Partial local elections.


SAINT PETERSBURG: Former world chess champion Garry Kasparov
leads an opposition political rally in the name of the party The
Other Russia.

