

Cataclysmic volcanic eruptions in Greenland and the British Isles
brought on a destructive bout of global warming 55 million years
ago, an international study revealed Thursday.


The eruptions also separated Greenland from Europe by giving
birth to the North Atlantic Ocean, said the study in the April 26
issue of Science.


The findings are important 55 million years after the fact,
because the volcanic activity released large amounts of methane
and carbon dioxide and warmer temperatures followed -- just as
scientists warn is happening today.


And the release of these so-called greenhouse gases had the
effect scientists today fear, of raising surface water
temperatures five degrees C (nine degrees F) in the tropics and
more than six degrees (11 degrees F) in the Arctic, said the
study of marine fossils and geology of the period.


"There has been evidence in the marine record of this period of
global warming and evidence in the geological record of the
eruptions at roughly the same time but until now there has been
no direct link between the two," said Robert Duncan, professor at
Oregon State University and an author of the study.


Deep-water ocean life was snuffed out by large amounts of
plankton near the surface, blocking light and oxygen filtering
down to the level of fish, which became extinct, they said.


Since the Industrial Revolution, scientists say, humans have been
releasing ever greater amounts of carbon and methane into the
atmosphere, exaggerating the greenhouse effect, which allows
light to enter Earth's atmosphere but does not allow the heat to
escape, much as the glass in a greenhouse.


Scientists look at rising Earth temperatures, melting polar ice
and changing weather patterns as evidence of global climate
change.

