

American Notah Begay defied the weather and an unfamiliar course
to lead the Spanish Open after a four under-par 68 in Thursday's
first round.


Begay, a former college friend of Tiger Woods, leads Paul
McGinley and Spaniards Carlos Rodiles and Miguel Angel Jimenez by
two shots - although a few other big names could catch the 34
-year-old American on Friday.


Half of the field failed to even get out on the course as the
rain, then the emerging darkness, played havoc meaning only five
hours of play was possible.


Also on four under par but still with holes to play in the
morning are Sweden's Steven Jeppesen and Frenchman Gregory
Bourdy.


Begay was feeling buoyant with his performance after beating the
fading light, a sore back and the late arrival of his clubs to
get his career in Europe back on track.


"When I played the US Tour it was rumoured the weather was bad in
Europe and I can testify they were not exaggerating," said Begay.


"Thankfully the food and the service was great because we did a
lot of sitting around.


"I also had to play the course blind because my clubs did not
arrive until Tuesday night and I was not in the pro-am."


A four-time winner on the US Tour before suffering chronic back
problems and losing his card, Begay entered the European Tour
qualifying school last November and came through it in joint
sixth place.


He added: "My sciatic nerve was really bothering me too, but I've
just dealt with it the last couple of years and my wife and I are
thoroughly enjoying our time over here."


McGinley has just slipped outside the world's top 100, but the
Irishman's two- under-par 70 will prove a big confidence booster,
especially in such trying conditions.


His Ryder Cup teammate, Ulsterman Darren Clarke, is also looking
for a return to form but he finished on 75.


Clarke is playing his first tournament since his early exit from
Augusta - and since suffering a hamstring injury while playing
football with his young son Conor.

