

Australian Robert Allenby blasted the PGA Tour Thursday for
permitting Phil Mickelson to play in the Byron Nelson
Championship after he missed Wednesday's mandatory pro-am event.


Allenby and others are upset not so much with Mickelson, but with
the event organizers. The three-time major winner missed the pro-
am after being stranded by bad weather in Arkansas on Tuesday.


"A lot of players are not happy," world No. 19 Allenby said after
the first round on Thursday.


Such an absence usually leads to an automatic disqualification
from the tournament, except in "extenuating circumstances."


Tour officials decided Mickelson's circumstances were extenuating
and granted the world No. 4 a reprieve.


Allenby, however, wasn't buying the tour line, pointing out that
Retief Goosen was disqualified from the 2005 Nissan Open in Los
Angeles after missing his pro- am tee time, due to oversleeping.


"I like Phil, but when the Tour sets a precedent, they've got to
stick with it," Allenby said. "He (Mickelson) checked into the
hotel here when I checked in on Monday.


"He came here, was on site, and he elected to go somewhere else,
knowing the weather was going to be crappy. He took the risk.
Take the risk and you pay the penalty."


Allenby believes Goosen has every reason to be bitter about the
tour's perceived double standard.


"At least he made an effort. He got there five or 10 minutes late
and he's disqualified."


Players have also questioned whether American Mickelson could
have made an early departure in his private jet Wednesday morning
to arrive at the course in time for his early morning start.


But Mickelson was vague, when asked about that.


"We ended up sitting on the runway (in Little Rock on Tuesday
night) for a couple of hours and then decided to stay over," he
said.


Mickelson shot a one-under 69 in Thursday's first round, leaving
him four shots behind leader Sean O'Hair.

