

French state-controlled electricity group EDF is in talks with
British Energy, a part-government owned nuclear group, about
constructing Britain's first nuclear power station in 30 years,
EDF's head said in an interview published Friday.


Speaking to the Financial Times, Vincent de Rivaz also said that
the British government would have to pass legislation this year
making a decision on nuclear power so that energy companies would
be able to make investment decisions, otherwise it risked a
"power crunch."


"It is quite natural that British Energy want to be part of new-
build nuclear, and because we have also a clear ambition, I am
confident that these two ambitions can match each other," he told
the business daily.


Electricite de France, the biggest producer of nuclear power in
the world, said it intended to benefit from renewed interest in
nuclear energy, when it released its 2006 results in February.


"We are well advanced to be in the pole position to build new
nuclear," De Rivaz told the FT.


He said that having a British partner would help the company in
its plans, saying that a "nuclear power plant has to be fully
embedded into the country in which it is built and operated."


He noted that British Energy had the best sites in Britain to
build nuclear power stations, telling the paper: "The top sites
are well known, they are close to existing (nuclear) plants."


De Rivaz warned, however, that were the government to not pass
new legislation to decide on nuclear power this year, there could
be a "power crunch."


"2007 is critical. Some element of new legislation will have to
be prepared and ready for the new parliament session of 2007-08,"
he said.


"I have said that we will be able to connect new build to the
networks by Christmas 2017. It is still possible. But if not, we
do have a problem of a power crunch."

