

Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe on Thursday renewed his deep
sympathy for so- called "comfort women" driven into brothels by
Japan's military.


"As a person and as prime minister, I feel sympathy from the
bottom of my heart to former comfort women, who experienced
hardships," Abe told members of the US Congress shortly after he
arrived here for talks with President George W. Bush.


"I feel deeply sorry that they were forced to be placed in such
extremely painful situations," Abe told a small group of
Republicans and Democrats on Capitol Hill, according to a
Japanese government official.


Abe sparked controversy last month by saying there was no
evidence the imperial army directly coerced thousands of "comfort
women" into brothels across Asia during World War II.


The prime minister has since stressed he stands by Japan's
landmark 1993 apology to the women. Bush praised Abe's "candor"
on the issue in a telephone conversation early this month,
according to the White House.


The White House on Wednesday said Japan "needs to find a way" to
lay to rest difficult disputes over World War II issues that
upset relations with neighbors like China and South Korea.


Japan has been lobbying hard against a bill being considered by
the US Congress that would demand Tokyo issue a fresh,
unambiguous apology to comfort women and make amends.


The bill quietly died in the legislature in recent years but is
seen as more likely to be passed since the Democrats took control
from Bush's Republicans in January.


Historians say up to 200,000 young women, mostly from Korea but
also from China, Indonesia, the Philippines and Taiwan, were
forced to serve as sex slaves in Japanese army brothels.

