

Call it a second serving of cheeseburger diplomacy: The
sandwiches, made with US beef, will be on the menu when US
President George W. Bush hosts Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
on Friday.


Beef imports have become a major bone of contention between the
close political allies in recent years, and US lawmakers from
cattle-ranching states have urged Bush to serve US beef when he
welcomes Abe for their first summit on US soil.


The White House ducked the issue for their first meal together, a
social dinner at the presidential mansion on Thursday, featuring
crab and duck but no red meat, according to the official White
House menu made public.


But their lunch at the Camp David presidential retreat in nearby
Maryland on Friday will feature cheeseburgers, onion rings,
fruited slaw, apple pie and Blue Bell Ice Cream from Bush's
adoptive home state of Texas, the White House said.


On Wednesday, a top White House adviser on East Asia had
encouraged Abe to sit down for a steak dinner during his stay. A
Japanese official said that Abe "would enjoy it" if it were
served at one of his meals with Bush.


The first "cheeseburger diplomacy" came in 2004, when French
President Jacques Chirac, unable to breach differences with Bush
over Iraq at a summit in the US state of Georgia, complimented
him on the sandwiches served there.


Japan this week agreed to ease its strict inspection regime on
imports of US beef, which it had imposed over concerns about mad-
cow disease.

