

Australian buildings materials producer Rinker on Friday reported
a 5.7 percent rise in net profit for the year to March but warned
that a soft US housing market could hurt next year's profits.


Rinker Group Ltd. posted a net profit of 782.4 million US dollars
for the year to March, up from 740.2 million the previous year.


But the company, the object of a 14.2 billion US dollar takeover
offer from Mexican cement group Cemex SA, warned that earnings
for the year to March 2008 could drop by about 10 percent if the
US housing market downturn continues.


Rinker earns more than 80 percent of its income in the US.


"In summary, this is a good result delivered in difficult
circumstances but the outlook is mixed and the shape of the
recovery is difficult to predict," chief executive officer David
Clarke said.


Chairman John Morschel said that it was difficult to predict the
timing and scale of a recovery in the US housing market.


"But, assuming the improvement in Arizona continues and we see a
recovery in Florida housing to around last year's level, Rinker's
profits this year could be similar to last year," Morschel said.


Morschel said if the depressed housing market in Florida and
Arizona over the past three months continued for the year, the
company's underlying profit could drop by 10 percent.


Earlier this month Cemex revised its offer from 13.00 US dollars
a share to 15.85 US dollars after the initial bid was rejected by
Rinker's board as opportunistic.


Morschel said shareholders now had sufficient information to
decide whether to accept the new offer, which has been
recommended by the Rinker board despite being at the lower end of
a 15.85-17.71 US dollar valuation range.


"We have basically put the Cemex offer before them -- it is now
up to shareholders to make up their minds," he said.


Shareholders have until May 18 to accept the bid which must
achieve a minimum 90 percent minimum acceptance to proceed.

