

Japan's Supreme Court said Friday that individual Chinese do not
have the right to seek war reparations, amid tension between the
Asian powers over history.


In its first ruling on the issue, Japan's top court struck down a
lower court's decision that awarded compensation to former
Chinese forced labourers.


The top court's decision is in line with the Japanese
government's position that war reparations are a matter between
nations -- not between governments and individuals.


The Supreme Court struck down a 2004 decision by the Hiroshima
High Court which found that a company, Nishimatsu Construction,
forced Chinese workers to toil in poor conditions in Japan during
World War II.


The court ordered the company to pay a total of 27.5 million yen
(230,000 dollars) to the five labourers or their families.


But Supreme Court Justice Ryoji Nakagawa rejected the ruling,
saying that China gave up the right to such compensation when it
restored relations with Japan.


The 1972 Joint Communique that restored ties said China "declares
that in the interest of friendship between the Chinese and the
Japanese peoples, it renounces its demand for war reparation from
Japan."


The plaintiffs had argued that the joint communique does not say
that Chinese individuals had given up the right to damage claims.


Chinese individuals began to file reparation cases against the
Japanese government or companies in the 1990s, and some 80 cases
have been filed so far, according to Jiji Press.


Although some cases ended in out-of-court settlements or initial
lower court victories, no plaintiffs have completely succeeded in
securing compensation through courts.


History disputes remain a point of friction between the two
countries, although Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao struck a
conciliatory tone on a visit to Japan this month.

