

A leader of an Algerian Islamist group affiliated with Al-Qaeda
was killed Thursday in clashes with the army, a media report
said.


Samir Saioud, alias Samir Moussaab, was believed to be the
second-ranking leader in the Salafist Group for Preaching and
Combat, recently renamed as Al-Qaeda's branch in northern Africa.


He was killed in fighting in the Si Mustapha region east of
Algiers, the APS agency reported, citing an unnamed security
source. Saioud's body was identified by former members of his
group, it said.


The group claimed responsibility for a series of car bomb attacks
earlier this month at the government's headquarters and another
location that killed 30 people and injured more than 200.


It is also blamed for various other attacks, including those in
the mountainous area of Kabylie and against workers from US and
Russian companies in Algeria.


Between the beginning of March and early April, attacks against
police resulted in at least 34 deaths, including a Russian
national.


Authorities describe the organisation as the last armed Islamist
group operating in Algeria. Dozens of young militants have
reportedly joined the group since the beginning of the year.


The Algerian army often conducts operations in the Kabylie area,
where militants have holed up, using heavy artillery and
helicopters.


The group's former leader was killed by the army in 2004. The
current leader is believed to be Abdelmalek Droudkel, alias Abu
Mossaab Abdelouadoud.


Since this month's car bomb attacks, authorities have stepped up
security in Algiers and other cities.

