

Did pitcher Curt Schilling paint his bloody sock red? That's what
Baltimore Orioles broadcaster Gary Thorne claims he heard.


Thorne, who does play-by-play for Orioles' games, brought up the
2004 saga of Schilling's famous bloody sock during Wednesday's
game between the Orioles and Boston Red Sox.


While the Orioles were batting in the fifth inning, Thorne
claimed that he had been told by Red Sox catcher Doug Mirabelli
that Schilling had red paint and not blood on his sock during
Game Six of the 2004 American League Championship Series against
the New York Yankees.


"It (the sock) was painted," Thorne said to analyst Jim Palmer
during the broadcast.  "It was painted. Doug Mirabelli confessed
up to it after.  It was all for PR (public relations)."


Later in the broadcast, Thorne confirmed Mirabelli told him of
the "painted sock" in a conversation "a couple of years ago."


Mirabelli was shocked when told of Thorne's comments after
Boston's 6-1 victory here on Wednesday.


"What?  Are you kidding me?  He's (bleeping) lying," Mirabelli
said. "I never said that (to Thorne). I know it was blood.
Everybody knows it was blood."


Red Sox manager Terry Francona also was stunned when informed of
Thorne's comments.


"I am just floored," Francona said. "Schill takes his share of
shots, and this one is so far below the belt that I'm
embarrassed."


Schilling had a tendon in his right ankle stitched in place so it
wouldn't flop over the ankle bone in order to make a start
against the Yankees in Game Six of the 2004 ALCS.


With blood seeping through his sock, Schilling allowed one run
over seven innings in a 4-2 victory. Boston won Game Seven as
well, becoming the first team to come back from a three-games-to-
none deficit to win a playoff series.

