

Canada's opposition on Thursday lashed out at the Conservative
government over allegations that prisoners captured in
Afghanistan by Canadian soldiers are being tortured by their
Afghan jailers.


"We're watching policy being made on the fly having to do with
international law and Canada's responsibilities in that regard,"
New Democratic Party chief Jack Layton told the House of Commons.


An investigative report by The Globe and Mail daily newspaper
uncovered "a litany of gruesome stories and a clear pattern of
abuse by the Afghan authorities who work closely with Canadian
troops."


Monday's Globe and Mail report, which was based on interviews
with 30 former prisoners of Kandahar jails, said that the
detainees suffer whippings with electrical cables, electric
shocks, exposure to cold temperatures and beatings.


However it contained no mention of any abuse by the 2,500
Canadian troops in Afghanistan engaged in the fight against the
Taliban and Al-Qaeda-linked fighters.


In the face of opposition calls for his resignation, Defense
Minister Gordon O'Connor said Wednesday there was an agreement
with local authorities in Kandahar on visiting prisoners turned
over by Canadian troops aimed at ensuring that they were not
subject to abuse. O'Connor also said that Ottawa was pursuing the
issue under an agreement with Kabul.


Thursday Prime Minister Stephen Harper backtracked and said the
agreement had never been formalized.


"Yesterday, the minister of defence said there was an agreement;
there was no agreement. He misled Canadians. Crystal clear,"
Layton said.


"More confused than ever," added Liberal leader Stephane Dion.

