

China CITIC Bank, the mainland's seventh largest bank, opened
above its listing price on its debut here Friday but lagged
considerably on the stock's Shanghai performance, dealers said.


They said the listing was taking place in a sharply falling
market after reports of unease at recent unprecedented gains in
the Chinese stockmarkets from the China's National Social
Security Fund, a major institutional investor.


CITIC Bank opened at 7.08 Hong Kong dollars (90 US cents), up
20.82 percent from its offer price of 5.86 Hong Kong dollars.


The main Hang Seng Index was down some 0.73 percent in early
trade.


CITIC Bank listed simultaneously in Hong Kong and Shanghai after
raising about 5.4 billion dollars in what is the world's largest
Initial Public Offering (IPO) so far this year.


The company said the retail tranche of its Hong Kong offering was
229 times oversubscribed while the international tranche was
"very significantly oversubscribed".


In Shanghai, CITIC Bank jumped 55 percent, hitting 9.00 yuan
(1.16 dollars) in early trade, well above expectations for a
range of 6.50 to 8.0 yuan.


The lender sold 2.302 billion A-shares in Shanghai at 5.8 yuan
per share and 4.885 billion H-shares in Hong Kong at 5.86 Hong
Kong dollars each.


CITIC Bank said it raised net proceeds of 13.06 billion yuan from
its IPO in Shanghai and about 27.62 billion Hong Kong dollars
(3.54 billion US) from the Hong Kong sale.


The dual listing comes as Beijing encourage China's major firms
to list for preference at home so as to help soak up abundant
liquidity and steady a market which has soared since the
beginning of 2006.


The bank plans to use the proceeds to expand its capital base.

