

Environment Minister John Baird unveiled plans Thursday to force
big industry to help curb Canada's carbon emissions by 20 percent
from 2006 levels by 2020, but ruled out meeting Ottawa's Kyoto
Protocol targets.


"Canada needs to do a U-turn," Baird said. "We are serving notice
that beginning today, industry will need to make real
reductions."


But he maintained that the Kyoto targets, agreed to by a previous
Liberal government in 1998, are unattainable.


The plan aims to cut greenhouse gas emissions linked to global
warming by 150 megatonnes by 2020. Growth in emissions would
first be halted by 2012, and eventually would be reduced by up to
70 percent by 2050.


Companies that produce electricity by combustion -- Canada's
booming oil and gas sector, base metals smelters, iron and steel
companies, some mining firms, and cement, pulp and paper,
aluminum and chemicals producers -- face mandatory cuts. They
currently account for 52 percent of Canada's carbon emissions.


Heavy industry would be required to cut their carbon emissions
per unit by 18 percent by 2010, or an average of six percent per
year starting immediately. Thereafter, they would be expected to
cut emissions by two percent annually to reach a 26 percent
reduction by 2015.


Under the scheme, companies could contribute to a government
clean technology fund, or trade emissions credits on a domestic
market to be set up by the government with possible future
linkages to emissions credits trading systems with United States
and Mexico.


They may also fetch credits from abroad under the Kyoto
Protocol's Clean Development mechanism to encourage clean
projects in developing countries, to reduce their emissions tally
by up to 10 percent.


Canada had agreed under the international Kyoto Protocol to
reduce carbon emissions to 6.0 percent below 1990 levels by 2012.
But emissions have instead increased by 35 percent.

