

Pen pix of Australia's probable team for the 2007 World Cup final
against Sri Lanka at Kensington Oval here on Saturday:


Ricky Ponting (RHB/RAM/capt)


Age: 32. ODI appearances: 279. First cap: v RSA, Wellington, Feb
15, 1995


The inspirational leader of Australian cricket has led from the
front as his team targets a third successive World Cup. Has
already silenced the critics by masterminding 10 successive wins
in the Caribbean.


Career details


Batting


Runs: 10,358


HS: 164


Ave: 43.33


100s: 23


50s: 62


Catches/Stumpings: 123/0


Bowling


Balls: 150


Runs: 104


Wkts: 3


Best: 1/12


Ave: 34.66


5wkt/inn: 0


Nathan Bracken (RHB/LAFM)


Age: 29. ODI appearances: 66. First cap: v WIS, Melbourne, Jan
11, 2001


Tall and slim, the left-arm seamer moves the ball both ways and
has settled into his role as unsung hero of the attack. Ponting
has been happy to throw the new ball to him.


Career details


Batting


Runs: 144


HS: 21no


Ave: 16.00


100s: 0


50s: 0


Catches/Stumpings: 14/0


Bowling


Balls: 3267


Runs: 2359


Wkts: 111


Best: 5/67


Ave: 21.25


5wkt/inn: 1


Michael Clarke (RHB/SLA)


Age: 26. ODI appearances: 111. First cap: v ENG, Adelaide, Jan
19, 2003


The 'Pup' has now matured into an international batsman of class
in both forms of the game. He is already being regarded as a
future Australian captain and the possible successor to Ponting.


Career details


Batting


Runs: 3321


HS: 105no


Ave: 45.49


100s: 2


50s: 25


Catches/Stumpings: 42/0


Bowling


Balls: 1346


Runs: 1165


Wkts: 30


Best: 5/35


Ave: 36.83


5wkt/inn: 1


Adam Gilchrist (LHB/WK)


Age: 35. ODI appearances: 267. First cap: v RSA, Faridabad, Oct
25, 1996


Easily the most exhilerating cricketer of the modern age, but the
steamrolling batsman and a classy wicket-keeper has yet to find a
big innings at the World Cup.


Career details


Batting


Runs: 8889


HS: 172


Ave: 35.55


100s: 14


50s: 50


Catches/Stumpings: 386/50


Bowling


Balls: 0


Runs: 0


Wkts: 0


Ave: 0


Eco: 0


5wkt/inn: 0


Matthew Hayden (LHB/RAM)


Age: 35. ODI appearances: 144. First cap: v AUS, Manchester, May
19, 1993


His physical and mental strength has made him an opening batsman
to be feared by rival bowlers. Hayden is the tournament's top run
scorer with 621, setting a new record for the quickest one-day
century in a group game against South Africa.


Career details


Batting


Runs: 5461


HS: 181no


Ave: 44.04


100s: 10


50s: 30


Catches/Stumpings: 61/0


Bowling


Balls: 6


Runs: 18


Wkts: 0


Best: --


Ave: --


5wkt/inn: 0


Brad Hogg (LHB/SLA)


Age: 36. ODI appearances: 105. First cap: v ZIM, Colombo, Aug 26,
1996


The lone spinner in the Australian side and has 20 wickets to his
name in the tournament and is playing a vital role, just as he
did in 2003 when Shane Warne missed the World Cup.


Career details


Batting


Runs: 705


HS: 71no


Ave: 21.36


100s: 0


50s: 2


Catches/Stumpings: 33/0


Bowling


Balls: 4796


Runs: 3586


Wkts: 132


Best: 5/32


Ave: 27.16


5wkt/inn: 2


Mike Hussey (LHB/RAM)


Age: 31. ODI appearances: 71. First cap: v IND, Perth, Feb 1,
2004


A late entrant into international cricket, he has made up for
lost time by emerging as a great finisher in one-day cricket in
the mould of the reired Michael Bevan. A key member of the
Australian side if he gets chance to bat.


Career details


Batting


Runs: 1826


HS: 109no


Ave: 58.90


100s: 2


50s: 10


Catches/Stumpings: 43/0


Bowling


Balls: 192


Runs: 167


Wkts: 2


Best: 1/22


Ave: 83.50


5wkt/inn: 0


Glenn McGrath (RHB/RAFM)


Age: 37. ODI appearances: 249. First cap: v RSA, Melbourne, Dec
9, 1993


The champion fast bowler hopes to end a magnificent career by
helping Australia retain the World Cup and he is doing his bit by
leading the wicket-taking chart with 25 victims, already a
tournament record.


Career details


Batting


Runs: 115


HS: 11


Ave: 3.83


100s: 0


50s: 0


Catches/Stumpings: 37/0


Bowling


Balls: 12928


Runs: 8360


Wkts: 380


Best: 7/15


Ave: 22.00


5wkt/inn: 7


Andrew Symonds (RHB/RAOB)


Age: 31. ODI appearances: 169. First cap: v PAK, Lahore, Nov 10,
1998


The aggressive all-rounder has overcome a biceps injury to play a
vital role with some devastating late hitting. Also versatile in
the attack, able to bowl medium-pace or spin depending on the
conditions


Career details


Batting


Runs: 4203


HS: 156


Ave: 39.28


100s: 5


50s: 22


Catches/Stumpings: 72/0


Bowling


Balls: 5576


Runs: 4653


Wkts: 123


Best: 5/18


Ave: 37.82


5wkt/inn: 1


Shaun Tait (RHB/RAF)


Age: 24. ODI appearances: 14. First cap: v ENG, Sydney, Feb 2,
2007


The young pace bowler went to the World Cup with many doubters
believing his erratic displays could cost his country. He has
proved them wrong with 23 wickets demonstrating that genuine
quicks have a role in one-day cricket.


Career details


Batting


Runs: 11


HS: 11


Ave: 11.00


100s: 0


50s: 0


Catches/Stumpings: 1/0


Bowling


Balls: 705


Runs: 643


Wkts: 28


Best: 4/39


Ave: 22.96


5wkt/inn: 0


Shane Watson (RHB/RAFM)


Age: 25. ODI appearances: 64. First cap: v RSA, Centurion, March
24, 2002


The pugnacious all-rounder is no Symonds but is holding his own
despite many questioning his selection after an injury-plagued
career. He is Ponting's crucial extra bowling option


Career details


Batting


Runs: 998


HS: 79


Ave: 35.64


100s: 0


50s: 7


Catches/Stumpings: 15/0


Bowling


Balls: 2551


Runs: 2066


Wkts: 61


Best: 4/39


Ave: 33.86


5wkt/inn: 0

