

Team New Zealand suffered their second Louis Vuitton Cup defeat
when skipper Dean Barker was penalised for an illegal manoeuvre
allowing Luna Rossa through to grab a vital win.


The Kiwis, beaten by another Italian boat, Mascalzone, in their
first round robin opening race last week, had the measure of
former America's Cup finalists Luna Rossa in the closing stages
of Thursday's race.


But after executing their penalty turn the Italian boat,
skippered by 27-year- old Australian James Spithill, slipped
through to score by 48sec and consolidate their position as one
of the leading candidates to make it into the Louis Vuitton semi-
finals.


The New Zealanders' misfortune played into the hands of arch
rivals BMW Oracle, who consolidated their grip on the standings
by extending their unbeaten run to nine.


The Americans' latest victims were Italian duo Mascalzone and +39
Challenge and those latest wins bolstered their campaign to bring
the America's Cup back to the US.


Oracle now lead the Louis Vuitton standings on 19 points from New
Zealand on 16 with Luna Rossa one point off in third tied with
Desafio Espanol, fifth overnight.


The Spanish home team had a good day with wins against United
Internet Team Germany and Sweden's Victory Challenge.


The latter had been involved in one of the closest races of the
day earlier, scraping through in their eighth round match against
France's Areva Challenge by a mere five seconds.


The under-performing French did pick up a win in the ninth round
but it was a hollow one against China Team who had to withdraw
from the day's action with keel problems.


South Africa's Team Shosholoza had a mixed time of it, coming off
second best to Mascalzone before a result over +39 Challenge kept
them in the hunt as outsiders for a last four berth.


The winner of the Louis Vuitton will go on to challenge Swiss
defender Alinghi in the America's Cup starting on June 23.

