

Estonian police used water cannons to disperse a crowd of around
1,000 demonstrators that had gathered in the centre of Tallinn to
protest plans to move a Soviet war memorial, officials said
Thursday.


Police also used rubber batons and powder fire extinguishers to
prevent a dozen youths from breaking through a police line around
the Bronze Soldier statue, which commemorates Soviet Red Army
troops who drove the Nazis out of Estonia at the end of World War
II.


"Police had to use special devices to disperse people who failed
to obey orders from police," police spokeswoman Tuuli Harson said
in a statement.


According to the Baltic News Service (BNS) agency, police used
flash grenades to disperse the crowd, and windows of nearby
houses and parked cars had been smashed in the unrest.


Shouting "Shame!" in Russian, some of the young demonstrators
threw bottles and stones at the police, who had been deployed
around the statue since early Thursday, according to an AFP
correspondent at the scene.


People started gathering at the Bronze Soldier statue after
authorities erected a fence around it and covered it with a large
white tent in the early hours Thursday ahead of excavation work.


The excavation work was being carried out to determine if any
soldiers lie buried beneath the statue, and is a prelude to the
authorities' plan to move the monument to a less prominent
position in Tallinn.


That plan has provoked outrage in Moscow and among Estonia's
ethnic Russian minority, who view the monument as a memorial to
those who defeated fascism in World War II.


Many Estonians however see the statue as a painful reminder of
nearly 50 years of Soviet occupation, which began at the end of
World War II and only ended in 1991 when the Soviet Union
crumbled.

