

Mexico's Lorena Ochoa shot a five-under-par 68 Thursday for a
share of second place at the 1.3 million dollar Corona
Championship.


Newly crowned as the No. 1 player in the world, Ochoa won for the
first time in four tries in her native Mexico with a five-stroke
victory here last season.


"You know going into it that the entire country is behind her,"
first-round leader Stacy Prammanasudh said.


Ochoa moved to the top spot in the rankings Monday with 12.84
points, 0.14 ahead of Annika Sorenstam.


She supplanted Sorenstam as Player of the Year and is seeking her
second win this season. Ochoa currently has five top-10 finishes
in six events, including the Safeway title in March.


During an up and down round, Ochoa signed for two eagles, five
birdies and four bogeys on the par-73 Tres Marias course that
plays 6,600 yards.


"A great round. A little bit up and down because I made some
bogeys out there, but I made two eagles," Ochoa said. "It was a
great feeling.  It is always good to have a good start.  I'm
really excited about that."


Ochoa is tied with South Korean rookie Na On Min, one shot behind
Prammanasudh, who started with eight pars before finishing her
first nine with an eagle.


She posted four birdies after the turn to complete a bogey-free
round.


"I knew I had to make birdies, today," she said. "The greens are
soft, so you can be aggressive with your putting. Luckily I
didn't have many mistakes and made birdies when I had to."


Prammanasudh has two career wins, including a title at the Fields
Open in Hawaii in late February.


"When you're at the top of the money list, people expect a lot
from you," Prammanasudh said.

