

Chinese shares prices fell 0.72 percent in Friday morning trade,
slipping off record highs as institutional investors booked
profits ahead of the Labour day holidays, dealers said.


They said property and steel stocks were lower, while banks also
fell despite very strong gains for CITIC Bank on its debut in
Shanghai, the biggest of the year so far.


"The market was weighed down by profit-taking ahead of the
weekend and May 1 holidays next week, with some institutional
selling seen in late morning trade," said Zeng Bo, an analyst at
Changjiang Securities.


"The speculation in CITIC Bank's A-share debut indicates that
sentiment has evolved to 'irrational' from 'optimistic', and it
might be better to lock in gains for the moment," Zeng added.


CITIC Bank ended the morning session at 11.58 yuan (1.5 US
dollars), up 99.66 percent from its Initial Public Offer price of
5.80 yuan, after opening at 9.21 yuan.


Although it is common in China for the shares of newly listed
companies to see a huge run-up on the opening day of trade, this
was still exceptional but fits in with the a charge that has seen
Chinese stocks rise more than 200 percent since January 2006.


Authorities and some investors have repeatedly warned that
China's stock markets are seriously overheated and a sharp
correction is necessary to realign stocks trading on price to
earnings ratios that are two and three times what is considered
healthy.


The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index, which covers both A- and
B-shares listed on the Shanghai Stock Exchange, ended the morning
down 27.14 points at 3,755.92, after touching a new intraday all-
time high of 3,795.35.


The Shanghai A-share Index was down 28.92 points at 3,946.76 and
the Shenzhen A-share Index fell 7.82 points at 1,100.21.

