

Japan on Friday set a goal of curbing its high suicide rate by 20
percent in the next decade through improving mental health
services and easing social burdens on people.


A special government panel, headed by Chief Cabinet Secretary
Yasuhisa Shiozaki, approved a plan to cut the nation's suicide
rate to 19.4 cases per 100,000 people in 2016 from 24.2 last
year.


The panel said the government should implement measures to ensure
people have access to psychological care and are not pressured
into working Japan's notorious marathon overtime hours.


More than 30,000 people kill themselves every year in Japan,
making the nation's suicide rate among the highest in the world.


Japan looks set to miss an earlier goal set in 2000 to reduce the
number of suicides to 22,000 by 2010.


"We must make nationwide efforts and change Japan into a society
in which people live at ease," the latest panel said in its
proposed strategies to be submitted to the cabinet next month.


The panel acknowledged that Japan's suicide rate was high among
the Group of Eight industrialised countries and blamed depression
and other psychological problems as a major cause.


Economic hardships have been blamed for aggravating the suicide
rate, particularly during Japan's protracted economic slump that
plagued the nation in the 1990s.


Schoolchildren also killed themselves in recent years due to
vicious bullying, a phenomenon experts attribute to the intense
social pressure to blend in.


Japan has seen a growing number of suicide pacts -- many arranged
among strangers on the Internet -- using charcoal burners in
sealed cars, often near peaceful sites such as mountains and
forests.


Sociologists have said Japan's suicide rate is high in part
because there are few cultural taboos against it compared with
Judeo-Christian or Islamic societies.

