

Japanese share prices fell 0.40 percent in morning trade Friday
after soft domestic economic data offset the impact of another
record finish on Wall Street and a weaker yen, dealers said.


The market briefly went into positive territory in the morning
but succumbed to profit-taking after Thursday's sharp gains and
amid continued caution in the midst of the corporate earnings
season, dealers said.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares was
down 69.17 points at 17,360.0 by the lunch break.


The broader Topix index of all first-section shares had more
modest losses, falling 2.01 points or 0.12 percent to 1,701.40 to
hold just above the symbolic 1,700-point level.


Gains narrowly outnumbered decliners 866 to 714, with 146 stocks
flat.


Volume rose to 1.07 billion shares from 814 million Thursday
morning.


Ahead of the bell, Japan said consumer prices fell for the second
straight month and that industrial output unexpectedly dropped.


"The economic indicators were disappointing. Their impact,
however, may not have been so strong as the Nikkei recouped
briefly the losses incurred in opening trade following the
release of the data," said a trader at a European asset
management firm.


"Investors continue to pay attention to corporate earnings
announcements and their impact on share prices," he said.


Carmakers led gains on the back of the weaker yen.


Nissan Motor edged up 9 yen or 0.74 percent to 1,225 despite
reporting sluggish results.


Honda Motor gained 70 yen or 1.72 percent to 4,130 while Toyota
Motor rose 80 yen or 1.10 percent to 7,320.


Among other companies which reported earnings, Toshiba edged up 6
yen or 0.67 percent to 902, Fujitsu was up three yen or 0.39
percent at 766 and Nintendo rose 600 yen or 1.61 percent to
37,800 after the three firms said their profits rose in the past
financial year.

