

German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier warned Thursday
of growing suspicion between the United States and Russia, as
Moscow suspended a key military treaty.


"As Europeans we have the most interest in preventing a spiral of
suspicion between the US and Russia. We must urgently stop it,"
Steinmaier told public German news channel ZDF.


"Any suspension" of the Conventional Forces in Europe (CFE)
treaty "is a step in the wrong direction," he added.


"What we need is more disarmament and control over arms. In this
context we must work in the diametrically opposite direction," he
said.


Steinmeier's comments came as his Russian counterpart, Sergei
Lavrov, confirmed President Vladimir Putin's threat earlier
Thursday to suspend the CFE treaty.


The move was announced by NATO Secretary General Jaap de Hoop
Scheffer in Oslo Thursday evening.


The treaty was signed in 1990 in Paris by the countries of the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and the former Warsaw
Pact to limit military hardware in the region.


It was adapted in Istanbul in 1999 following the collapse of the
Warsaw Pact, in order to limit deployments on a country-by-
country basis.


NATO states have refused to ratify the new pact on the grounds
that Moscow has failed to honour commitments made in Istanbul to
withdraw Russian forces from the former Soviet republics of
Georgia and Moldova.


Putin's insistence that all countries ratify the CFE appeared
particularly aimed at the Baltic states of Estonia, Latvia and
Lithuania, which were once part of the Soviet Union and are not
part of the treaty.


The three are all now members of NATO.

