

Pen pix of Sri Lanka's probable team for Saturday's World Cup
final against Australia at Kensington Oval here:


Mahela Jayawardene (RHB/RAM/capt)


Age: 29. ODI appearances: 246. First cap: v ZIM, Colombo, Jan 24,
1998


A fine technician, he has settled in as captain after Marvan
Atapattu was injured. Sri Lanka have played some of the most
exciting cricket of the tournament. Jayawardene is the
tournament's second highest run-maker with 529.


Career details


Batting


Runs: 6714


HS: 128


Ave: 33.07


100s: 9


50s: 38


Catches/Stumpings: 122/0


Bowling


Balls: 568


Runs: 539


Wkts: 7


Best: 2/56


Ave: 77.00


5wkt/inn: 0


Kumar Sangakkara (LHB/WK)


Age: 29. ODI appearances: 199. First cap: v PAK, Galle, July 5,
2000


He is a classy batsman and a superb wicket-keeper, one of the
most influential figures in the side. Has yet to fire with the
bat but has been on top of his game behind the stumps.


Career details


Batting


Runs: 5772


HS: 138no


Ave: 36.207


100s: 6


50s: 39


Catches/Stumpings: 177/52


Bowling


Balls: 0


Runs: 0


Wkts: 0


Best: --


Ave: 0


5wkt/inn: 0


Russel Arnold (LHB/RAOB)


Age: 33. ODI appearances: 179. First cap: v RSA, Lahore, Nov 6,
1997


A tall, patient accumulator of runs and is also an athletic
fielder in the circle. Arnold will retire after Saturday's final.


Career details


Batting


Runs: 3949


HS: 103


Ave: 35.57


100s: 1


50s: 28


Catches/Stumpings: 48/0


Bowling


Balls: 2157


Runs: 1739


Wkts: 40


Best: 3/47


Ave: 43.47


5wkt/inn: 0


Tillakaratne Dilshan (RHB/RAOB/WK)


Age: 30. ODI appearances: 119. First cap: v ZIM, Bulawayo, Dec
11, 1999


One of the most under-estimated cricketers in the game despite
proving his worth with both bat and ball. A strong middle-order
batsman and a steady off-spinner. Has habit of nabbing wicket
when his team needs it most.


Career details


Batting


Runs: 2295


HS: 117no


Ave: 29.42


100s: 1


50s: 9


Catches/Stumpings: 57/1


Bowling


Balls: 2151


Runs: 1687


Wkts: 41


Best: 4/29


Ave: 41.14


5wkt/inn: 0


Sanath Jayasuriya (LHB/SLA)


Age: 37. ODI appearances: 389. First cap: v AUS, Melbourne, Dec
26, 1989


Age has not diminished either his skills or enthusiasm for the
game. He is in prime form with the bat and ball, just as he was
11 years ago when Sri Lanka won their only World Cup title. Has
404 runs at this World Cup.


Career details


Batting


Runs: 11942


HS: 189


Ave: 33.17


100s: 25


50s: 63


Catches/Stumpings: 114/0


Bowling


Balls: 13646


Runs: 10803


Wkts: 292


Best: 6/29


Ave: 36.99


5wkt/inn: 4


Farveez Maharoof (RHB/RAFM)


Age: 22. ODI appearances: 66. First cap: v ZIM, Harare, April 25,
2004


The typical bits-and-pieces cricketer so useful in one-day
cricket. Looks certain to replace the unfortunate Dilharo
Fernando.


Career details


Batting


Runs: 603


HS: 58no


Ave: 18.84


100s: 0


50s: 1


Catches/Stumpings: 15/0


Bowling


Balls: 2584


Runs: 2055


Wkts: 80


Best: 6/14


Ave: 25.68


5wkt/inn: 1


Lasith Malinga (RHB/RAF)


Age: 23. ODI appearances: 35. First cap: v UAE, Dambulla, July
17, 2004


The bleach-blond speedster with the slinging round-arm action has
become one of the undoubted stars of the 2007 tournament with 16
wickets and his memorable four wickets in four balls against
South Africa.


Career details


Batting


Runs: 46


HS: 15


Ave: 7.66


100s: 0


50s: 0


Catches/Stumpings: 5/0


Bowling


Balls: 1621


Runs: 1287


Wkts: 55


Best: 4/44


Ave: 23.40


5wkt/inn: 0


Muttiah Muralitharan (RHB/RAOB)


Age: 35. ODI appearances: 296. First cap: v IND, Colombo, Aug 12,
1993


The spin wizard appears to be getting better with age and is the
second highest wicket-taker at the World Cup with 23 victims.
Like Vaas and Jayasuriya, is one of three veterans of the 1996
title winning team here.


Career details


Batting


Runs: 491


HS: 27


Ave: 5.77


100s: 0


50s: 0


Catches/Stumpings: 117/0


Bowling


Balls: 16502


Runs: 10277


Wkts: 455


Best: 7/30


Ave: 22.58


5wkt/inn: 8


Chamara Silva (RHB)


Age: 27. ODI appearances: 24. First cap: v AUS, Colombo, Aug 26,
1999


Made his name with an unbeaten century against India in Sri
Lanka's last one- dayer before the World Cup. In the Caribbean,
he has hit four valuable 50s.


Career details


Batting


Runs: 605


HS: 107no


Ave: 35.58


100s: 1


50s: 5


Catches/Stumpings: 8/0


Bowling


Balls: 0


Runs: 0


Wkts: 0


Best: --


Ave: 0


5wkt/inn: 0


Upul Tharanga (LHB)


Age: 22. ODI appearances: 53. First cap: v WIS, Dambulla, Aug 2,
2005


The talented left-handeder has forged successful combination with
Jayasuriya at the top of the order but was on verge of being
dropped for the semi-final but saved himself with 73 against New
Zealand.


Career details


Batting


Runs: 1708


HS: 120


Ave: 30.68


100s: 6


50s: 8


Catches/Stumpings: 9/0


Bowling


Balls: 0


Runs: 0


Wkts: 0


Best: --


Ave: 0


5wkt/inn: 0


Chaminda Vaas (LHB/LAFM)


Age: 33. ODI appearances: 299. First cap: v IND, Rajkot, Feb 15,
1994


Sri Lanka's most successful new ball bowler has been overshadowed
by Malinga and Muralitharan at the World Cup but has still
grabbed 13 wickets at a decent average of 17.84.


Career details


Batting


Runs: 1899


HS: 50no


Ave: 13.96


100s: 0


50s: 1


Catches/Stumpings: 59/0


Bowling


Balls: 14653


Runs: 10206


Wkts: 383


Best: 8/89


Ave: 26.64


5wkt/inn: 4

