

Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing's net profit slumped 76
percent in the first quarter, dragged down by seasonally weak
demand and excess inventory affecting the industry, the Singapore
chip maker said Friday.


For the three months to March, net profit totalled 5.34 million
US dollars, down from 21.98 million dollars a year ago, the
company said in a statement.


Sales fell 8.8 percent to 323.8 million dollars.


"The revenue decline was primarily due to weakness in the
consumer sector and to a lesser extent the computer sector,
partially offset by strength in the communications sector," said
George Thomas, senior vice president and chief financial officer.


In the first quarter, the company shipped 299,200 wafers, down
6.0 percent from a year ago.


The average selling price for the wafers fell to 1,071 dollars
from 1,135 dollars in the three months to December, the company
said.


Chartered utilised 70 percent of its capacity in the first
quarter, down from 82 percent for the same period in 2006.


For the second quarter, the company forecast earnings to range
from a net loss of five million dollars to a profit of five
million dollars while sales are expected at 317 to 329 million
dollars.


"Barring any severe macro-economic issues which are difficult to
predict, we continue to expect growth for the foundry industry in
the second half of the year, driven primarily by seasonal
strength as well as the continuing depletion of execess inventory
across the semiconductor supply chain," said chief executive Chia
Song Hwee.


Chartered, which makes built-to-order chips in competition with
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co, is also listed on the
high-tech NASDAQ market in New York and counts US computer giant
IBM as among its customers.


At 9:20 am (0120 GMT), Chartered's shares were steady at 1.41
dollars (93 US cents) while the main Straits Times Index was
10.09 points lower at 3,396.8.

