

The United States and United Nations have blasted the Somalian
government's treatment of relief agencies working within the
country, The Times reported on Friday.


Citing separate letters from the US ambassador to Kenya and the
UN's acting humanitarian co-ordinator for Somalia, the paper said
that the restrictions faced by aid workers within Somalia have
hampered their ability to help people in need.


Referring to the closure of airstrips used for delivering aid,
demands for bribes and the looting of food deliveries by
government-controlled militias, US ambassador Michael
Rannenberger wrote that "these practices are unacceptable and
undermine the legitimacy of your government."


In his letter, addressed to President Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmed,
Rannenberger continued: "I request that your government
immediately take steps to resolve these issues. The highest
levels of the US government are concerned and urgent action is
required."


Meanwhile, the UN's acting humanitarian co-ordinator for the
country Graham Farmer wrote to Somalia's Prime Minister Ali
Mohamed Gedi with similar protests.


"Continued insecurity, militia checkpoints, and threats and
intimidation of humanitarian personnel have made it impossible to
deliver even minimal assistance to tens of thousands of extremely
vulnerable IDPs (Internally Displaced People)," Farmer wrote.


In response, Gedi, speaking to The Times, criticised the relief
agencies, saying "they want to operate in this country without
any control."


"They know they can't do that any more ... Now there's a prime
minister who knows them too well."

