

Japanese authorities warned Friday a doomsday cult that attacked
the Tokyo subway with nerve gas more than 10 years ago still
reveres its jailed guru and poses a danger.


An annual report on the cult said the Aum Supreme Truth remains
active, with about 1,650 followers in Japan and about 300 in
Russia.


The cult founded by Shoko Asahara, a bearded, half-blind former
acupuncturist who preached of a coming apocalypse, attacked rush-
hour trains with sarin, a nerve gas invented by the Nazis, in
March 1995.


Twelve people were killed and thousands more injured.


Asahara, whose real name is Chizuo Matsumoto, was sentenced to
death in 2004 and lost his last chance of appeal in September.


"The group still teaches members to follow the teaching of
Matsumoto even after his death sentence was confirmed," said the
annual report, drafted by the Public Security Intelligence Agency
and National Police Agency.


"The members hold monthly intensive training programmes and
unconditionally revere Matsumoto and his teachings."


After the subway attack, the Aum cult renamed itself Aleph --
after the first letter in the Hebrew alphabet -- and deposed
Asahara. But authorities say hardcore followers still revere him.


The report said the cult was diversifying financial sources by
having live-in followers take jobs at companies or offer yoga
lessons without disclosing their affiliation with the sect.


It also said the group sends its senior members to Russia, trying
to gain sympathisers in the country.


Fumihiro Joyu, who had been the cult's leader and was seen as a
moderate, recently announced he will defect and form a splinter
group that accepts more conventional Buddhist beliefs.


The sect remains legal but under close surveillance, with
authorities warning in the past of potential unrest when Asahara
is executed.

