

Five Americans have been expelled from China after staging an
illegal demonstration at Mount Everest base camp that was aimed
at "splitting" the country, the Chinese foreign ministry said
Friday.


"Upon discovering this activity, China's public security bureau
stopped the protest and according to... relevant laws expelled
these people outside of China," a ministry spokesman told AFP.


The Americans on Wednesday unfurled banners demanding a "free
Tibet" and protested against plans to take the Olympic torch to
the top of the mountain ahead of the 2008 Beijing Games,
according to Students for a Free Tibet.


Police immediately detained four of the protesters at the scene,
while the fifth American was apparently brought into custody
later, as Chinese authorities had previously said that person had
fled base camp.


The Chinese government had lodged an official complaint with the
United States over the protest and demanded that Washington
prevent similar incidents from occurring, the ministry spokesman
said.


"Tibet is an inseparable part of China and the Chinese government
and people will never tolerate any activity aimed at splitting
China," he said.


"The United States should work to dispel the odious influence of
this and prevent similar incidents from occurring."


The protest came a day before the Beijing Olympic Games
organisers formally announced plans to bring the Olympic torch to
the top of the world's highest peak, while also sending the torch
relay through Lhasa, the capital of Tibet.


The US-based Students for a Free Tibet, which organised the
protest, said it feared that China would seek to whitewash
widespread religious and cultural oppression in the Tibetan
region through its Olympic activities.


China has ruled Tibet since sending troops in to "liberate" the
region in 1951 and has violently suppressed a number of uprisings
since then.

