

US blue-chip shares extended their record-breaking run Thursday,
as bullish investors propelled the leading Dow Jones Industrial
Average share index to another all-time high.


The blue chip share gauge maintained momentum above the
psychologically important 13,000-point mark on the back of a
flurry of fat profit reports, including ExxonMobil's latest
earnings.


The Dow closed up 15.61 points (0.12 percent) at a record
13,105.50 a day after smashing the 13,000 milestone for the first
time.


The Nasdaq composite finished up 6.57 points (0.26 percent) at
2,554.46, but the broad-market Standard and Poor's 500 index
ended down 1.17 points (0.08 percent) at 1,494.25.


"How high is high? We do not know, but the market will keep going
up until the volume of the profit-takers becomes larger than that
of the buyers and the trend reverses," said Bob Dickey, a market
analyst at RBC Dain Rauscher.


Some veteran analysts cautioned excited investors, however, that
the rocketing stock market could be headed for a correction.


Share gauges have surged to record peaks in recent days following
a flurry of better-than-expected profit reports from corporate
America, as investors have largely appeared to brush off worries
about slowing US economic growth.


A government report due for release Friday is expected to show a
slowdown in US gross domestic product (GDP) for the first
quarter.


An orgy of mergers and acquisitions, fueled in part by ambitious
private equity firms, has also added to Wall Street's festive
spirit.


Shares gained Thursday after ExxonMobil, the world's biggest
energy company, said its latest quarterly profits gushed to 9.28
billion dollars as refining and marketing booms offset slower oil
earnings.


The Texas-based behemoth's January-March net profits swelled 10
percent, equating to 1.62 dollars per share, 10 cents better than
most Wall Street forecasts.


ExxonMobil's quarterly profits were comfortably more than those
of Bank of America, Google, Boeing, McDonald's and Apple
combined. The oil firm's shares closed up 63 cents at 80.55
dollars.


Ford Motor Co. meanwhile raced ahead of expectations in the first
quarter as the struggling auto giant posted a narrower loss of
282 million dollars.


That compared with a loss of 1.4 billion dollars in the same
period a year ago, and was well ahead of market expectations as
the company pushes ahead with a painful reorganization.


Ford's shares leapt 32 cents, or just over four percent, to 8.20
dollars.


On the deal-making front, audio equipment group Harman said it
had agreed to be taken over by a group of investment funds
including Kohlberg Kravis Roberts for eight billion dollars.


Harman's shares soared 19.94 dollars, over 19 percent, to 122.50
dollars.


The day's slender economic news also boosted Wall Street's
optimism as the Labor Department said weekly claims for
unemployment benefits dropped 20,000 to a seasonally-adjusted
321,000.


Bond prices, which move in an opposite direction to yields,
declined as investors switched into stocks.


The yield on the 10-year US Treasury bond rose to 4.684 percent
from 4.646 percent Wednesday and that on the 30-year bond climbed
to 4.868 percent against 4.830 percent.

