

Australia's claim that it will meet its Kyoto target for
greenhouse gas emissions despite refusing to sign the protocol
was rejected by independent experts Friday.


The Climate Institute, which works to raise public awareness
about global warming, said new research indicated the government
had underestimated pollution from the burning of coal, oil and
gas.


Prime Minister John Howard dismissed the analysis, saying the
institute's data was incomplete because it did not include off-
sets such as the reduction in land-clearing.


Howard's government refused to ratify the United Nations 1997
Kyoto convention on climate change but has boasted that it will
be one of the few industrialised nations to meet its emissions
target.


Figures produced for the Climate Institute by Energy Strategies,
the same group which compiles emissions data for the government,
found that increases in greenhouse pollution during the past two
years were above official projections.


They show that emissions from the energy sector jumped by 22.5
million tonnes between June 2004 and February 2007 -- enough to
put five million extra cars on the road.


Even using government figures, total emissions in 2010 would
still be more than 110 percent of 1990 emissions -- above the
Kyoto target of 108 percent of 1990 emissions by 2012, the
research said.


"That means Australia is increasingly likely to overshoot its
target under the Kyoto Protocol," the Climate Institute's chief
executive John Connor said.


But Howard rejected the report. "Our advice is we are on track to
either meet, or near as damn it meet, the 108 (percent) target,"
he told commercial radio.


The Australian prime minister, who has previously been sceptical
of climate change and insisted that attempts to cut greenhouse
gases should not hurt the economy, said the government will
report on emissions to 2005 next month.

