

Former Australian Rugby Union (ARU) chief John O'Neill on Friday
ruled out a return to the code, which has been wracked by in-
fighting and political disputes Down Under.


As the ARU board prepares to meet Saturday to select a new
chairman, O'Neill moved to end speculation he could be the code's
"white knight" and end the internal wrangling that has flared
under outgoing chief executive Gary Flowers.


Former Wallabies captains Simon Poidevin, Nick Farr-Jones and
John Eales have publicly urged O'Neill to return to the position
he handed to Flowers in 2004.


O'Neill, who blamed rugby's turbulent politics for his departure,
had previously said "never say never" to the speculation he could
return.


But as the crunch board meeting looms, O'Neill said it was time
to clarify his intentions.


"I must emphasise that I have not been approached by anyone
representing the ARU about any position, nor have I sought one,"
he said.


"After much consideration, I have decided that it is now an
appropriate time to bring the speculation to an end.


"Therefore, I confirm that I am not a candidate for any position
at the ARU."


His statement appears to contradict comments he made in January
saying he had been asked by rugby powerbrokers to take a high-
profile role in reviving the game.


O'Neill took over as head of the ARU in 1995 and oversaw the
code's conversion to a professional sport, the Wallabies' 1999
World Cup win and Australia's staging of the 2003 World Cup.


After moving on to football, he helped lay the groundwork for the
Socceroos' impressive 2006 World Cup campaign and Australia's
switch from the Oceania international football federation to the
stronger Asian confederation.


He is currently working for a marketing firm and has no role in
sports administration.

