

Canadian companies could buy and sell carbon credits on an
international exchange to help them meet new stringent emissions
targets announced Thursday, Environment Minister John Baird said.


Heavy industries that account for 52 percent of Canada's carbon
emissions would be allowed to trade emissions credits on a
domestic market to be set up by the government, with possible
future linkages with trading systems in the United States and
Mexico.


As well, they may fetch credits from abroad under the Kyoto
Protocol's clean development mechanism to encourage clean
projects in developing countries, but only to reduce their
emissions tally by up to 10 percent.


The ruling Conservatives previously refused to participate in
this international mechanism, calling it a "hot air" market that
would suck up Canadian dollars they said would be better spent on
domestic clean air projects.


Under a new scheme, companies could contribute to a government
clean technology fund, or trade emissions credits, and any that
reduced their CO2 emissions linked to global warming prior to
2006 would be rewarded with a one-time credit.


The government's environmental plan, unveiled Thursday, calls for
a 20 percent carbon emissions cut by 2020, based on 2006 levels,
and by up to 70 percent by 2050.


Canadian producers of electricity using combustion, the booming
oil and gas sector, base metal smelters, iron and steel
companies, and some mining firms, as well as cement, pulp and
paper, aluminum and chemicals producers face mandatory emissions
cuts.

