

Human Rights Watch accused Pakistan Thursday of "concerted and
increasing attempts" to silence the media in a letter to
President Pervez Musharraf, calling it "another symbol of the
lack of rule of law in Pakistan."


In a letter to Musharraf, HRW cited arrests, violent attacks and
murder of journalists, a concerted attempt to silence Aaj TV
beginning on April 22, the physical attack in March on Geo TV,
pressure on the respected newspaper Dawn, and other acts against
media and journalists seen critical of the regime.


"Human Rights Watch is concerned about concerted and increasing
attempts by the Pakistani government to muzzle the media," said
the letter from the New York- based group.


"Though your government has consistently claimed that the media
in Pakistan enjoys 'unprecedented' freedom, this remains limited
to publications and television channels that support your
government and you personally."


"Your government's failure to allow freedom of expression as
required by international law has become yet another symbol of
the lack of rule of law in Pakistan, which is fundamental to the
promotion and protection of human rights," said the letter, dated
April 27 and signed by HRW Asia region executive director Brad
Adams.


"We urge you to demonstrate a commitment to genuine media freedom
by bringing to an end the use of coercion, intimidation,
kidnapping and torture, or the threat of it, in government
dealings with the print and electronic media in Pakistan."

