

Carlos Boozer scored 22 points and grabbed 12 rebounds as the
Utah Jazz beat the Houston Rockets 81-67 Thursday holding them to
a playoff franchise-record low in points.


Matt Harpring scored 13 points off the bench and Deron Williams
added 11 and eight assists for Utah, which cut its deficit to 2-1
in this Western Conference first-round series.


The 67 points by the Rockets is three less than the 70 they
scored in game five of a first round National Basketball
Association series vs the Jazz on May 3, 1998.


Utah closed out that series in five games. The points also were
one shy of the club's all-time low.


Houston only had four players score, setting an NBA playoffs all-
time low.


Boozer, who scored a playoff career-high 41 points in a 98-90
loss at Houston on Monday, received minimal support in that game
from frontcourt starters Andrei Kirilenko (zero points) and
Mehmet Okur (four points).


He got little help again from the duo, who combined for nine
points, but it was the Jazz reserves who really stepped up,
outscoring Utah's bench, 33-0.


Rookie Paul Millsap sparked Utah with eight points in the second
quarter. The three-time NCAA rebounding champion entered the game
with just 11 seconds left in the first period and helped Utah go
on a 16-2 run, turning a 17-14 deficit into a 30-17 lead with
10:07 left in the second quarter.


Fellow reserve Gordan Giricek added seven points in the first
half along with Boozer's 10 to help Utah take a 48-42 halftime
lead. Giricek finished with 10 points.


After a cold-shooting third quarter in which both combined for 23
points, the Jazz entered the final period leading, 61-52.


In the fourth quarter Houston ran off six straight points, capped
by two free throws by Yao with 6:09 left that cut its deficit to
64-58.


However the Jazz went on a 15-4 run over the next 2:51 to take a
79-62 lead, tying their largest lead for the entire contest.
Harpring had seven points during the spree.

