

The World Bank's staff association said Thursday that the global
development lender's embattled president, Paul Wolfowitz, had
"destroyed" the trust of employees and should resign.


"He must act honorably and resign," the de-facto union
representing the bank's 10,000 employees said in a letter to
staff, according to contents confirmed to AFP.


"The president must acknowledge that his conduct has compromised
the integrity and effectiveness of the World Bank Group and has
destroyed the staff trust in his leadership," the staff
association said.


An apologetic Wolfowitz earlier Thursday confessed to errors over
a pay scandal surrounding his girlfriend at the bank, and left
his fate up to the 185-member organization's national governors.


Uproar has deepened over an employment package worth nearly
200,000 dollars given by the World Bank to his Libyan-born
partner, Shaha Riza, when she was re- assigned to the US State
Department.


The controversy is a deep embarrassment for Wolfowitz just as he
battles to overcome skepticism about a campaign that he is waging
against corruption in the World Bank's multi-billion-dollar
lending.


He is also under fire from veteran staffers for his management
style, following a series of clashes with the board and hostility
towards his appointment of Republican Party allies to key bank
posts.


The staff association called on the World Bank's executive board
to "take the lead in launching a global merit-based search for a
new president who can restore the bank's integrity and regain the
trust (of donors)."


It "seems impossible for the institution to move forward with any
sense of purpose under the present leadership, especially in our
endeavor to assist governments and their people in improving
their own governance."

