

A French judge has completed his investigation into the scandal-
tainted UN oil- for-food program in Iraq and the role allegedly
played by French executives, a source said Thursday.


Judge Philippe Courroye completed work last week that concerned
around 15 people in France, among them several directors of the
oil group Total, including chief executive officer Christophe de
Margerie.


The company had claimed no wrongdoing in its relations with Iraq
under the UN programme.


An investigation ordered by then-UN secretary general Kofi Annan
found in 2005 however that more than 2,000 companies from 60
countries had bribed Saddam's government for the right to sell
Iraqi oil.


Under the former UN programme, which ran from 1996 until just
after the US-led invasion that ousted Saddam in March 2003, Iraq
was allowed to sell oil and use the revenues to purchase
humanitarian supplies.


The Iraqi government, however, was allowed to decide who
purchased the oil.


The program was set up to help Iraqis who suffered from punitive
sanctions slapped on Saddam's regime after Iraq's 1990 invasion
of Kuwait.


Among the French figures who were investigated by Courroye
starting in 2002 was former interior minister Charles Pasqua.


With the French investigating magistrate leaving his post to
become a prosecutor, his findings are to be turned over to a
colleague within a financial investigations unit.


That magistrate will then decide whether to refer the matter to
the criminal division of the Tribunal de Grande Instance, which
hears cases too serious to handle in lower courts.


The judge Courroye is also to leave his successor an ongoing
investigation into 40 other French companies suspected of paying
bribes to Saddam's regime within the framework of the UN
programme.

