

Sri Lanka's Tamil Tiger rebels on Friday denied killing seven
ethnic Sinhalese civilians, saying it was either the work of the
military or a breakaway rebel faction allied with government
forces.


The Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) said a string of
attacks against civilians had been orchestrated by security
forces and former LTTE rebels now in the so-called Karuna
splinter group to discredit the main Tiger outfit.


"We deny any hand in yesterday's killings in Avarantalawa," LTTE
spokesman Rasiah Ilanthiriyan said by telephone from the rebel-
held town of Kilinochchi. "The military or the paramilitaries
have done it to discredit us."


"Survivors have seen the attackers dressed in Tiger uniforms. Any
fool will know that we can't infiltrate into a government-held
area in our uniforms," he said.


The defence ministry accused Tiger guerrillas of carrying out the
attack in the northern district of Vavuniya, close to the
frontline between government-held areas and the LTTE's northern
enclave.


The attack, which left six women and a man dead, took place on
the eve of the traditional New Year shared by the majority
Sinhalese community and the minority Tamils.


Police said the victims had been driven out of their homes 24
years ago and had returned in 2002 following a truce between
troops and Tamil Tigers.


However, the ceasefire is now observed only on paper with more
than 4,000 people killed in escalating violence since December
2005.


On Saturday, a roadside bomb attack killed eight people and
wounded 25 in the troubled Vavuniya district. The military blamed
the Tigers, who denied the allegation and in turn said the
security forces were responsible.

