

Pop star Madonna wants to adopt another Malawian child, a girl
called Grace, despite a storm of controversy over her efforts to
adopt a Malawian boy last year, a report said Friday.


Citing unnamed sources, the Sun tabloid in London said Madonna
was intent on adopting three-year-old girl Grace after watching a
documentary about a child care home for orphans in the African
country.


"Madonna saw a film of children at a place called The Consol
Home," The Sun quoted an unidentified source said to be close to
the star as saying.


"She spotted a beautiful girl called Grace who lit the room with
her smile, and fell head over heels for her. Madonna kept saying,
'That girl has so much love in her. I want to help her achieve
her potential'," the source said.


"But adoption officials are being very strict after uproar when
Madonna adopted David. They know Grace is her first choice, but
have insisted she looks at other girls first -- and that the
final decision is theirs."


The granting of an 18-month interim custody order, which enabled
Madonna to take young David Banda out of Malawi last year,
sparked heated debate about adoption laws in a country where the
number of orphans is surging as a result of AIDS.


A legal challenge is now underway from rights groups who claim
that existing legislation in Malawi does not allow for
international adoption.


According to The Sun, Madonna will fly to Malawi on Sunday with
her three children, including David, though her husband Guy
Ritchie will not join them.


"It was always Madonna's intention to adopt two orphans from
Malawi -- a boy and a girl. Grace is healthy, stunning, and has
no living relatives. It was the fact David's dad Yohane was alive
and well that caused most of the problems last time," the source
told The Sun.


David's father, Yohane Banda, was initially quoted as saying he
did not realise his son would be taken out of the country for
good, but later said he supported the adoption.

