

China's farmland shrank 0.3 percent in the year to 2006, putting
it just above the warning level set by the government, state
press reported Friday.


After losing 307,000 hectares (760,000 acres), the country had
121.9 million hectares of arable land, the China Daily reported,
citing results of a survey conducted by the Ministry of Land and
Resources.


Premier Wen Jiabao has stressed in the annual parliament session
that China must defend the red line that arable land never
shrinks to less than 120.1 million hectares.


"The reality of 121.9 million hectares of arable land tells us
that the situation to protect the arable land is exceptionally
severe," the ministry said in the survey results posted on its
website late Thursday.


The decrease in arable land mainly resulted from reforestation,
but the illegal use of arable land for construction purpose also
remained rampant, it said.


During the period, more than 36,000 hectares of farmland was
illicitly used for construction by local governments before
receiving approval, it said.


The situation is even worse considering that China's farmland is
becoming increasingly polluted, with coal-dependent factories and
polluted waterways causing billions of dollars in damages.


More than 10 million hectares (24.7 million acres), or 10 percent
of China's farming land, has been ruined, state-run press
reported earlier, citing figures from the country's environment
watchdog.


But the land ministry noted that government measures to curb land
grabs and better manage its land were taking effect.


The land ministry issued two catalogues last year detailing
projects that should be restricted or banned, targeting villas,
golf courses and race tracks that take up large amounts of land.


"The key to protecting arable land lies in the management of land
used for construction," the China Daily quoted Xu Jian, a
researcher with the China Land Science Society as saying.

