

Ten-man Sydney FC were beaten 2-1 by unfancied Indonesian side
Persik Kediri to blow a major hole in their AFC Champions League
chances.


Sydney took the lead early in Thursday's match but Persik
levelled in the first half before substitute Budi Sudarsono hit
the winner on 70 minutes, shortly after Ruben Zadkovich saw red
for a second bookable offence.


Sydney coach Branko Culina lamented tough conditions at Solo's
Manahan Stadium, where the match was played a day late due to
waterlogging.


"The bad pitch condition contributed to our defeat but it was
more of the heat that took its toll on us as our players were
walking toward the end of the match," he said.


"It was a hard lesson for us that we have to have 11 players to
win a game. Having one less made it even harder."


The Australians slipped to third in Group E, three points behind
Urawa Red Diamonds with three matches left.


Persik Kediri are just a point behind the J-League champions
after their second successive home win.


In other matches, the United Arab Emirates' Al Wahda maintained
their 100 percent record in Group A and Al Hilal, under returning
coach Marcos Paqueta, replaced Pakhtakor at the top of Group B
with a 2-0 win in Tashkent.


Neftchi remained top of Group C despite a 2-0 reverse to Al Sadd
while Al Shabab and Sepahan are both on six points at the top of
Group D.


Kawasaki Frontale scored an important away win against Chunnam
Dragons to extend their Group F lead and China's Shandong Luneng
are on the verge of qualifying after their third consecutive win
in Group G.


The group matches wind up on May 23, when the competition pauses
for the Asian Cup in Southeast Asia.


Defending champions Jeonbuk Motors have a bye to the quarter-
finals in September.


The winners will take home 600,000 US dollars and earn a place at
December's Club World Cup.

