

Japanese share prices were narrowly mixed in subdued morning
trade on Friday as investors kept a cautious stance ahead of a
meeting of the world's top finance ministers, dealers said,


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
rose 24.75 points or 0.14 percent to 17,565.17 by lunch. But the
broader TOPIX index of all first- section issues dropped 0.84
points to 1,725.34.


Decliners outnumbered gainers 957 to 581, with 184 issues flat


Volume was 927 million shares, down from 1.01 billion on Thursday
morning.


Dealers said that the market had drawn only limited support from
gains seen overnight on Wall Street, with the upcoming corporate
earnings season also keeping a lid on sentiment.


"Investors remain sceptical about whether US stocks will continue
rising after the latest minutes from the Federal Reserve's
meeting showed wariness over inflation," said Hideo Mizutani,
chief strategist at Sieg Securities.


He said investors "found no need to rush into buying shares as
there were no especially positive incentives to chase prices
higher."


Mizutani said investors were also waiting for the results season
in the United States and Japan to get into full swing before they
build up their positions.


Reporting of first-quarter earnings will begin in earnest in the
US next week, while the full-year earnings reporting season in
Japan begins the week after.


Sony Corp rose 310 yen or 4.9 percent to 6,650 following a
newspaper report projecting a sharp improvement in earnings at
the electronics giant for the year to March 2008.


Toshiba Corp gained 15 yen or 1.7 percent to 886 after announcing
a new business plan under which aims to nearly double its
operating profit over the next four years.


All Nippon Airways Co (ANA) was up six yen or 1.3 percent at 477
after a newspaper reported that Morgan Stanley plans to buy 13
domestic hotels owned by ANA for 280 billion yen (2.4 billion
dollars).


On the other hand, Fast Retailing Co Ltd plunged 470 yen or 5.1
percent to 8,760 after the operator of casual clothing shops
issued a profit warning for its financial year ending August.


Among autos, Nissan Motor lost 21 yen or 1.7 percent to 1,231,
Toyota Motor fell 170 or 2.3 percent to 7,200 and Isuzu Motors
dropped nine or 1.4 percent to 640.

