

Ten members of a 14-strong crew have been rescued after a
Norwegian oil rig support vessel capsized off the Shetland Isles,
off the northeast Scottish coast, the coastguard said Thursday.


The Bourbon Dolphin capsized about 75 nautical miles (139
kilometres) west of the north Shetlands near the Transocean
Rather oil platform at about 5:00 pm (1600 GMT), the Maritime and
Coastguard Agency (MCA) said.


"There were 14 people on board. Eight people have been recovered
... There are other vessels in the vicinity assisting. Our
coastguard rescue helicopter is also on scene," MCA spokeswoman
Sophie Turner told AFP.


The MCA later said two more people had since been rescued, but
four were still missing.


Michael Mulford, from the Royal Air Force base at Kinloss,
northeast Scotland, told Sky News television an RAF Nimrod plane
and a specialist North Sea rescue helicopter had been sent to the
scene.


"One moment that vessel would have been alongside a rig and for
some reason ... she has capsized. That creates an immediate
emergency situation 100 miles away from the nearest island," he
said.


"That in itself is serious but ... I'm encouraged that eight have
been rescued so far."


Neither Mulford nor Turner had details about the condition of
those rescued, nor weather conditions in the area at the time.


Mark Clark of the MCA told Channel Four News that the four still
missing were feared to be trapped inside the hull of the ship.


"We cannot see them therefore we can only assume they are under
the hull," he told the broadcaster.


"If they are caught under the hull we need to get them as quickly
as possible ... We are making every effort to get to them."

