

The UN Security Council on Thursday strongly condemned the
suicide car bombings in Algeria and urged all states to help
Algiers bring the perpetrators and sponsors to justice.


Taking their cue from UN chief Ban Ki-moon who earlier also
slammed the attacks, the 15-member council issued a statement
that "condemns in the strongest terms" Wednesday's two suicide
attacks, which caused at least 33 deaths in the Algerian capital.


"The Security Council underlines the need to bring perpetrators,
organizers, financiers and sponsors of these reprehensible acts
of terrorism to justice and urges all states ... to cooperate
actively with the Algerian authorities in this regard," said the
statement read by Britain's UN envoy Emyr Jones Parry, the
council chair for this month.


The council also stressed that "any acts of terrorism are
criminal and unjustifiable, regardless of their motivation,
wherever, whenever and by whomsoever committed."


It reaffirmed the need to "combat by all means ... threats to
international peace and security caused by terrorist acts" but
reminded states that this must be done in accordance with
"international law, in particular international human rights,
refugee and humanitarian law."


The two suicide car bombings, which rocked Algiers, including the
prime minister's office, were claimed by Al-Qaeda's branch in
North Africa, formerly known as the Salafist Group for Preaching
and Combat (GSPC).


The attacks followed closely on the heels of suicide blasts in
neighboring Morocco, fueling regional fears of a resurgence in
militant activity following crackdowns by north African
governments.

