

Indian software giant Infosys posted a higher-than-expected 70
percent jump in its fiscal fourth-quarter net income as it signed
up more clients overseas and tapped new businesses.


The Bangalore-based company's profit rose to 11.4 billion rupees
(266.5 million dollars) in the three months ended March 31, from
6.73 billion rupees a year earlier. Sales increased 43.8 percent
to 37.7 billion rupees.


"The global IT services industry continues to show strong growth
with exciting opportunities and Infosys is well positioned to
take advantage of this," Chief Executive Officer Nandan Nilekani
said in a statement.


Infosys, India's second-biggest maker of computer software and a
pioneer of the outsourcing boom, signed up 34 new clients during
the quarter, including those in the retail industry, aerospace
and oilfield services.


This helped offset a rise in the value of the rupee that dents
overseas earnings as well as salary increases.


For the 12 months ended March 31, the company's net income jumped
56.6 percent to 38.5 billion rupees, on sales growth of 45.9
percent to 138.9 billion rupees.


The results were closely watched, with analysts looking to the
figures as an indicator of how the country's flagship industry is
facing up to the challenges of rising wages, an appreciating
rupee that cuts into export earnings, a looming slowdown in
technology spending by US companies and a higher tax burden.


Infosys shares were up 54.6 rupees or 2.67 percent to 2,098.25 on
Friday, and up 2.75 percent at 2,100 rupees after the earnings
were announced.


The benchmark 30-share BSE Sensex was up 167.9 points or 1.28
percent to 13,281.71 at 0500 GMT.

