

Exiled former vice president Jean-Pierre Bemba's parliamentary
immunity should be lifted so that he can be tried for murder, the
Democratic Republic of Congo's state prosecutor said Thursday.


Tshimanga Mukeba told AFP he had written to the senate two days
ago asking for the scrapping of the former rebel-turned-
politician's immunity to enable "charges to be brought against
him."


These, he said, would include "murder, armed robbery and
malicious destruction," of property.


A murder conviction can attract the death penalty in DRC although
it has not been applied since 2003.


Under current laws, it would take a two-thirds majority vote in
the senate to lift Bemba's immunity.


Bemba -- an arch-foe of President Joseph Kabila -- currently
enjoys parliamentary immunity by virtue of his seat in the
senate, which can only be lifted by parliament.


Government forces defeated Bemba's personal militia in bloody
streetfighting in Kinshasa last month after resisting moves for
their integration into the army.


Bemba took refuge in the South African embassy and the government
issued an arrest warrant against him on charges of treason and
maintaining a militia.


Bemba, also a former rebel leader and failed presidential
candidate, flew into Portugal on Wednesday, ostensibly for
medical treatment.


Prosecutors have also opened an investigation into the clashes,
which diplomats say killed at least 200 people.


Bemba has been authorised to leave DRC for a period of 60 days
and still hold on to his senate seat. Mandates are automatically
terminated if a senator misses more than a quarter of the
sittings in a session without permission.

