

Embattled Tour de France winner Floyd Landis' bid to clear his
name of doping allegations was dealt a setback when an
arbitration panel ruled that officials could re-test seven urine
samples.


The United States Anti-Doping Agency (USADA), which is
prosecuting the case against Landis, would conduct the tests of
Landis' urine which had already been ruled clean, the Los Angeles
Times reported on Thursday.


USADA is also seeking financial records, medical reports and
other documents from Landis in the case against him. Specifically
they are looking for names of donors of more than 250 dollars.


The ruling was made three weeks ago but only released Wednesday,
the Times said.


USADA said the new tests were needed because the procedure would
be more rigorous than before.


Landis called the requests "un-American."


"USADA clearly thinks that they're above the law," Landis said.
"And that's precisely why we've been asking our elected
representatives to look into USADA's unfair and un-American
tactics."


Landis said he is considering appealing the ruling. A hearing
before the arbitration panel is scheduled for May 14 in Los
Angeles.


Landis, 31, could be stripped of his Tour de France victory and
given a two-year ban.


The American, whose positive test from stage 17 of the 2006 race
prompted the collapse of his Phonak team, also faces a French
government probe but that has been delayed until after the
inquiry following his promise not to race in France this year,
ending any chance to defend his title.

