

A senior US official on Friday called for North Korea to shut its
nuclear reactor, saying a drawn-out dispute over the communist
state's funds was over.


North Korea is supposed to start closing a reactor and admit UN
nuclear inspectors by Saturday in the first key deadline of
February's breakthrough six- nation aid-for-disarmament deal.


But Pyongyang had refused to act until it receives 25 million
dollars blacklisted at Macau's Banco Delta Asia (BDA). US
authorities said they have found a way for North Korea to access
the money.


"There is no secret. We all know there was an action that was
taken by Macau," said Victor Cha, US President George W. Bush's
adviser on North Korean affairs.


"So this BDA issue is finished and now we need to implement the
rest of the 60-day action," Cha told reporters after meetings
with Japanese officials in Tokyo.


"What everybody would like to see is for the DPRK (North Korea)
to take steps to implement the 60-day action including getting
the IAEA back in to execute the shutdown as well as resume six-
party talks," Cha said.


The North, officially known as the Democratic People's Republic
of Korea, has refused to let in inspectors from the International
Atomic Energy Agency, the UN nuclear watchdog, until it sees the
money from Macau.


Asked if North Korea would meet Saturday's deadline, Cha said,
"The most important thing, rather than how likely or unlikely
they are, is whether there is a clear understanding of the
situation ... and that's there."


"There is very clear communication about the situation and what
needs to be done," Cha said.


Both Cha and the US envoy to the six-nation talks, Christopher
Hill, were due this weekend in China, which is North Korea's main
ally. Cha said there were no immediate plans to meet North Korean
officials in Beijing.

