

US investment banking giant Morgan Stanley plans to buy 13
Japanese hotels owned by All Nippon Airways Co. in a single
transaction for a record 2.4 billion dollars, a report said
Friday.


The transaction, valued at some 280 billion yen (2.4 billion
dollars), would be the largest real estate deal in Japanese
history, the Nikkei business daily said without citing sources.


ANA could make a formal announcement as early as Friday, the
newspaper said.


Morgan Stanley would acquire such properties as the flagship ANA
Intercontinental Tokyo hotel in the capital Tokyo as well as the
Manza Beach Hotel and Resort in the southern Japanese island of
Okinawa.


The US firm, which has already acquired the Westin Tokyo from
Sapporo Holdings Ltd. as well as other properties, will become
one of Japan's largest hotel owners if the deal is completed, it
said.


If the transaction proceeds as planned, ANA is expected to
generate some 170 billion yen in profit, which will allow ANA to
enjoy record group sales and operating profit for the year to
March 2007, it said.


The move comes as Japan's economic recovery lures foreign
investment, giving another boost to the domestic real estate
market, Nikkei said.


Japan's biggest real estate transaction to date is DaVinci
Advisors KK's 200 -billion-yen purchase of the Pacific Century
Place office building in Tokyo's posh Marunouchi district last
year.

