

Germany's Jens Voigt claimed victory in the fourth stage of the
Tour of the Basque country after a determined day of riding which
he capped by finishing solo and well ahead of his chasers.


After 176km of riding between Vitoria and Lekunberri on Thursday
Spaniard Angel Vicioso retained the race leader's jersey although
the Relax team rider saw his advantage on defending champion Jose
Angel Gomez Marchante diminish.


Voigt, of the CSC team, went out with victory on his mind after
making sure to get into a nine-man lead group that went on to
build a maximum lead of eight minutes on the group.


The peloton eventually upped the pace and began to close in, but
Voigt, who is known for daring raids either solo or in the
company of others, decided to prolong his efforts, attacking on
his own at the 119km mark.


The German was no threat in the general classification and
completed the remaining 57km to finish 1min 39secs ahead of
Marchante, who parted company with his overall rivals in the
latter stages.


In third place was Spanish ace Alejandro Valverde, who finished
1:53 behind Voigt at the front of a group comprised of Italians
Rinaldo Nocentini, Damiano Cunego and Davide Rebellin, Australian
Cadel Evans and Spanish pair Alberto Contador and Samuel Sanchez.


It means the winner of Wednesday's third stage, Vicioso, saw his
lead over Marchante in the general classification drop to 1:46
ahead of Friday's fifth stage.


Friday's stage over 169km between Lekunberri and Oiartzum
features five Cols, two of which are of the most difficult first
category variety.

