

Three members of a 15-strong crew died and five were still
missing after a Norwegian oil rig support vessel capsized off the
Shetland Isles, off the northeast Scottish coast, authorities
said late Thursday.


The Bourbon Dolphin capsized about 75 nautical miles (139
kilometres) west of the north Shetlands near the Transocean
Rather oil platform at about 5:00 pm (1600 GMT), the Maritime and
Coastguard Agency (MCA) said.


All of the ship's crew are Norwegian nationals.


Ten had been rescued, but the Bourbon Dolphin's owners confirmed
three of those rescued had died Thursday night.


"We are looking for five people and we have got the Subsea
Viking, a support vessel designed for diving operations, en route
to the scene and we are trying to muster divers," Mark Clark of
the MCA said earlier.


Clark said that with darkness falling, rescuers were urgently
trying to get the divers to the scene, saying that the MCA "may
have to get them from the mainland and fly them out or there may
be some on rigs."


He added that the five still missing were feared trapped under
the hull of the ship: "We cannot see anyone therefore we can only
assume they are under the hull."


"If people are under the hull then we don't know how much air
they have or whether they have managed to struggle into their
survival suits -- and the water is around five degrees (Celsius)
at the moment."


Michael Mulford, from the Royal Air Force base at Kinloss,
northeast Scotland, told Sky News television an RAF Nimrod plane
and a specialist North Sea rescue helicopter had been sent to the
scene.


"One moment that vessel would have been alongside a rig and for
some reason ... she has capsized. That creates an immediate
emergency situation 100 miles away from the nearest island," he
said.


Mulford did not have details about the condition of those
rescued, nor weather conditions in the area at the time.

