

Diplomacy must be given time to work in the West's stand-off with
Iran over its controversial nuclear programme, the US
undersecretary of state for political affairs said on Thursday,
adding that conflict with Iran was not "desirable" or
"inevitable."


Speaking to the BBC, Nicholas Burns said that the West had to
have a "degree of patience" with diplomacy if it was to work,
adding that there is still time for a diplomatic solution to the
impasse.


"We've got some time to work here, and I think if diplomacy is to
be pursued, and is to be successful, then we have to have a
degree of patience about it," Burns told the broadcaster.


"You can't just react in an emotional way when you're talking
about very serious issues."


He continued: "Our view is that a military conflict is not
desirable, and it is certainly not inevitable, and if we can work
skilfully together ... then we may be successful. We ought to
give that a try."


Iran says its uranium enrichment programme is for peaceful,
civilian purposes, but Western states suspect it may be used to
develop a nuclear bomb, and have slapped sanctions on the Middle
Eastern state in an effort to get it to suspend the programme.


Burns also said that in relation to Iran's alleged role arming
Shiite militants in neighbouring Iraq, which the United States
invaded in March 2003, and has a military presence of about
170,000 troops, America should try to convince Iran to "play a
more productive role."


"The message to Iran is, we're not wishing to provoke a conflict
with them, in fact we wish to have a peaceful relationship with
Iran," Burns said, adding that the United States, would, however,
defend its troops in Iraq if they came under attack.


"I would say that the focus of our efforts should be on the
following: to try to convince the Iranian government to play a
more productive role, a more positive role to enforce civility in
Iraq itself."

