

Former vice president Jean-Pierre Bemba's parliamentary immunity
should be lifted so he can be tried for murder, the Democratic
Republic of Congo's state prosecutor said Thursday.


Tshimanga Mukeba told AFP he had written to the senate two days
ago asking for the scrapping of the former rebel-turned-
politician's immunity to enable "charges to be brought against
him."


These, he said, would include "murder, armed robbery and
malicious destruction," of property.


A murder conviction can attract the death penalty in DRC although
it has not been applied since 2003.


The charges arise out of last month's clashes in Kinshasa between
government forces and Bemba's militia, after Bemba loyalists
resisted a move to integrate them into the army.


Thomas Luhaka, an official with Bemba's party, dismissed the
request as a "political manoeuvre" and suggested it was done to
keep Bemba from returning to DRC.


Bemba, a former rebel leader and failed presidential candidate,
flew into Portugal on Wednesday, ostensibly for medical
treatment.


Bemba -- an arch-foe of President Joseph Kabila -- currently
enjoys parliamentary immunity by virtue of his seat in the
senate.


Under current laws, it would take a two-thirds majority vote in
the senate to lift Bemba's immunity.


After his forces were defeated in Kinshasa, Bemba took refuge in
the South African embassy and the government issued an arrest
warrant against him on charges of treason and maintaining a
militia.


Prosecutors have also opened an investigation into the clashes,
which diplomats say killed at least 200 people.


Bemba has been authorised to leave DRC for a period of 60 days
and still hold on to his senate seat.


Mandates are automatically terminated if a senator misses more
than a quarter of the sittings in a session without permission.

