

The euro hit a fresh two-year high against the dollar in Asian
trade on Friday after the European Central Bank appeared to
signal another interest rate hike as early as June, dealers said.


They said the market was jittery ahead of a meeting of the Group
of Seven (G7) financial chiefs in Washington on Friday, when the
health of the global economy and the weakness of the yen are
expected to be in focus.


The euro set a fresh two-year high of 1.3523 dollars in early
Tokyo trade before easing back to 1.3503, up from 1.3480 late
Thursday in New York.


The single currency dipped to 160.40 yen from 160.64, hovering
close to its record highs against the Japanese currency. The
dollar fell to 118.80 yen from 119.14 yen.


"Looking at economic fundamentals, we have to say it is clear
that the euro is outdistancing other major currencies," said
Commerz Bank treasurer Ryohei Muramatsu.


"And the trend is likely to continue for the time being as the
ECB is expected to raise interest rates in June," Muramatsu said.


In Frankfurt, the ECB left its benchmark "refi" refinancing rate
unchanged Thursday at 3.75 percent, as expected.


But ECB chief Jean-Claude Trichet said Thursday the bank would
continue to monitor eurozone inflation risks "very closely,"
fuelling speculation that it will raise its key interest rate at
a June meeting.


Market players remained cautious ahead of the G7 meeting amid
speculation that the yen could become a topic of discussion, if
only behind closed doors.


The weakening Japanese yen is causing consternation in European
capitals, where finance chiefs are worried that the yen-euro
exchange rate is penalising eurozone exporters.


"But the chances of strong remarks on a weak yen are very slim
this time," said Muramatsu.


"And since foreign exchange rates are stable in an orderly manner
right now, there is no need for the G7 to say anything that may
possibly disturb the market," he said.


The dollar failed to draw support from the latest US economic
data, which showed that first time claims for unemployment
benefits unexpectedly jumped by 19,000 filings to 342,000,
suggesting the strong labour market is losing steam.


The dollar was mostly down against other Asian currencies as
well.


It fell to 1.5168 Singapore dollars from 1.5196 late Thursday,
33.093 Taiwan dollars from 33.132 and to 47.94 Philippine pesos
from 47.99.


It dropped to 32.65 Thai baht from 34.96, to 930.10 South Korean
won from 931.00 but rose to 9,107 Indonesian rupiah from 9,103.

