

US special forces rescued five civilian contractors whose
helicopter made a forced landing in Afghanistan and killed three
Taliban rebels who tried to attack them, the coalition said
Friday.


The Taliban said late Thursday it had "hit" a NATO helicopter in
southeastern Ghazni province, the same area where the coalition
said the civilian chopper came down because of mechanical
problems.


The helicopter made a "precautionary landing" in Ghazni just
before nightfall and issued a distress call, but the passengers
began receiving small arms fire from the Taliban soon afterwards,
a coalition statement said.


US Special Forces soldiers and paratroopers along with members of
the Afghan police special reaction team made their way to the
site, it said.


"The civilian contractors evaded the Taliban fighters until
coalition close air support arrived and engaged the pursuing
enemy fighters. Three extremists were killed in the engagement,"
the statement said.


The troops then secured the helicopter site and the civilian
contractors were taken to a nearby coalition base, where they
were treated for minor injuries and released.


The statement said no Afghan civilian casualties were reported.


"With the recent kidnappings by extremists, these brave soldiers
and policemen, who rescued the civilians, likely prevented
another cowardly hostage taking," coalition spokesman Major
Christopher Belcher said.


Taliban spokesman Yousuf Ahmadi said late Thursday that the
militia had "hit a NATO helicopter in southwest Afghanistan" but
did not give any details to back up the claim.

