

North Korea said Friday it would start scrapping its nuclear
programme once it can confirm that a long-running dispute over
frozen assets has been resolved.


The North's foreign ministry, in a statement carried by official
media, said it would "confirm soon" whether its funds in a Macau
bank have been unfrozen as the United States says.


The statement carried by the Korean Central News Agency said the
ministry had noted the announcement by the US Treasury and Macau
authorities that the funds in Banco Delta Asia have been freed.


"A DPRK (North Korea) financial institution concerned will
confirm soon whether the measure is valid," it said without
elaborating.


"The DPRK remains unchanged in its will to implement the February
13 agreement and will also move when the lifting of the sanction
is proved to be a reality."


The statement was the first official response from Pyongyang to
US announcements that some 25 million dollars in the Macau bank,
frozen since 2005 on suspicion of illegality, was available for
collection.


North Korea had refused to start carrying out the February 13
multinational agreement to shut down its nuclear programme until
it got its money back.


South Korea's Yonhap news agency quoted sources as saying North
Korean officials were already in Macau.


"North Koreans say they have come here to collect the money. They
complained the withdrawal was being delayed," it quoted a source
as saying.


The deadline for the first phase of the pact -- a shutdown of the
Yongbyon reactor -- is Saturday. But US and South Korean
officials acknowledge this will have to be pushed back because of
the cash row.

