

A study released on Thursday indicates that more women than men
go online in the United States, defying the perception of the
Internet as a male-dominated realm.


Approximately 97.2 million women use the Internet in the United
States, compared to 90.9 million men, according to research by
eMarketer.


Women are inclined to use the Internet to accomplish tasks
instead of as a diversion, said eMarketer senior analyst Debra
Aho Williamson, author of the "Women Online" report.


"Females, especially adult women, are more likely to use the
Internet to get things done, rather than to have fun," the
eMarketer report states.


"Many adult women, busy juggling work with their relationships
and child-caring responsibilities, don't have time to surf the
Web for video."


Seventy-eight percent of male US Internet users will watch video
online this year while only 66 percent of the female users will,
according to eMarketer.


Reasons given for the difference in video-viewing proclivities
included men adopting new technologies faster than women and
having greater access to high- capacity broadband Internet
connections needed to handle data-rich video streams.


The gap between the genders is expected to narrow in coming years
as broadband connections become ubiquitous and television shows
popular with women are made available for viewing online,
according to eMarketer senior analyst Debra Aho Williamson.


"Early data indicate that female teens are as enthusiastic as
male teens about online video," Williamson said.


"The networks are well-positioned to drive greater female online
video usage by offering more programming that appeals to females,
particularly adults."

