

Russian authorities on Thursday cleared an air drop of 30 tonnes
of supplies for a unique climate research programme aboard a
French boat embedded in the Arctic ice, the expedition said in a
statement.


The Tara Arctic expedition said Russian customs officials had
approved the air drop of "necessary equipment for the April
mission on the Tara polar base, as well as fuel and fresh
supplies for the three coming months."


Russian authorities had previously blocked a March 29 cargo
flight from parachuting supplies.


They included a small bulldozer that would be used to create a
landing strip of 1,000 metres (3,300 feet) and a supply of tents,
to the ice-locked schooner.


Thursday's breakthrough came with the diplomatic help of the
French presidency, Prince Albert II of Monaco and the French and
Russian foreign ministries, said the expedition.


The drop was now due to take place on Friday if weather
conditions allowed.


The ship has been within the Arctic ice for more than seven
months and is expected to remain there until the end of the
summer of 2008. It has a team of eight: one New Zealander, two
Russians and five French nationals.


The project is part of a European environmental studies
consortium called Damocles.


It is designed to provide a secure ice station reachable by
aircraft and ice breaker, and to communicate information about
global climate change.


"Tara representatives in Russia are busy today reorganizing the
plane and drawing up a new flight plan," the expedition said.


An expedition team in Longyearbyen on the Norwegian arctic island
of Spitzberg some 14,000 kilometres (8,700 milles) from Tara, was
meanwhile "restudying the logistics plan for the month of April
between the Tara base and Spitzberg," it said.


Bleak weather forecasts might force the expedition to postpone a
visit from 15 Damocles scientists along with journalists,
scheduled at the end of the week, Tara Arctic said.

