

Filipino hero Manny Pacquiao will put his political aspirations
aside Saturday when he faces unbeaten Mexican Jorge Solis in a
super featherweight fight at the Alamodome.


After his latest battle, Pacquiao (43-3-2, 34 KOs) will switch
focus to the May 14 polls in which he is standing as a
congressional candidate in his native Philippines.


Last month, the General Santos City native's lawyer, Franklin
Gacal, submitted Pacquiao's certificate of candidacy to run in
South Cotabato.


Pacquiao had long toyed with the idea of running for office,
largely due to his unmatched popularity in his homeland where he
comfortably transcends the sport and attracts television
audiences in the millions to watch his fights.


Leading up to this 12-round bout against the untested Solis
(32-0-2, 23 KOs), heavily-favoured Pacquiao has also had to do
without the services of normal trainer Freddie Roach, who is
readying Oscar de la Hoya for his mammoth clash against Floyd
Mayweather on May 5.


Despite the distractions, Pacquiao insists he will be ready for
Solis.


"I'm very focused on training," Pacquiao said. "I have a lot of
people in the Philippines working my campaign and know how to
campaign for Manny Pacquiao while I'm away training. I'm very
confident that I can manage both.


"I'm still continuing with my boxing career and still fighting
because that's my job. Boxing is my job and that's my sport."


A major advantage for Solis will be the huge contingent of
Mexican fans who are expected to fill the Alamodome.


"I hold the pride of Mexico in my two fists," Solis said. "Be
ready Manny, no excuses."


Solis' trainer, Fernando Beltran, is confident in his fighter.


"I really believe Solis will shock the Philippines and the
world," Beltran said. "Mexico will be very proud of its champion
on Saturday night."


The undercard features Jorge Arce (46-3-1, 35 KOs) against
Cristian Mijares (30-3-2, 11 KOs) in a 12 rounds WBC super
flyweight title fight.

