

Venus Williams took another step in her comeback campaign
Thursday, and avenged the family honor in reaching the quarter-
finals of the 1.34 million-dollar WTA Family Circle Cup.


Williams defeated Chan Yung-Jan of Taiwan 6-2, 6-1 to reach the
final eight.


Chan, 17, had advanced to the third round when Australian Open
champion Serena Williams, the third seed, retired with a groin
injury while trailing in the first set.


A five-time Grand Slam champion, Venus Williams missed most of
2006 with a left wrist injury. But 26-year-old has been solid
this season, capturing a title in Memphis.


Against Chan, Williams converted five break points in a match
that lasted just 64 minutes.


In the quarter-finals, Williams will play Spain's Anabel Medina
Garrigues, who fashioned a 6-4, 7-5 upset of eighth-seeded Li Na
of China.


Second seed Jelena Jankovic of Serbia booked her quarter-final
berth with a 6-3, 6-0 victory over Italian Mara Santangelo.


Jankovic, ranked ninth in the world, needed just 48 minutes to
dispatch Santangelo.


Jankovic's next opponent will be either Katarina Srebotnik of
Slovakia, a 7-5, 7-6 (7/5) winner over Zheng Jie of China.


Fourth seed Dinara Safina of Russia advanced with a 6-2, 6-2
triumph over unseeded Spaniard Lourdes Dominguez Lino.


Safina will play France's Tatiana Golovin, who earned her first
career title at Amelia Island last Sunday.


Golovin defeated China's Peng Shuai 6-2, 4-6, 6-3.


Wild card Michaella Krajicek of the Netherlands pulled off yet
another upset, rallying for a 6-7 (4/7), 6-2, 6-1 triumph of
Austrian Sybille Bammer.


The victory came two days after Krajicek eliminated top seed
Nicole Vaidisova in the second round.


Ninth-seeded Russian Vera Zvonareva ousted seventh-seeded Ana
Ivanovic of Serbia 6-3, 6-3.


It was a repeat of their meeting in the Australian Open, where
Zvonareva also won in straight sets.

