

Prime Minister John Howard on Friday suggested that Australians
should treat the country's senior Muslim cleric as "a joke."


Howard made the comment after Egyptian-born mufti Sheikh Taj
Aldin al-Hilali reportedly said he was "more Australian" than the
prime minister -- whom he likened to former Iraqi dictator Saddam
Hussein.


The clash is the latest in a series of controversies to embroil
Hilali, who provoked widespread outrage last year when he
described scantily-clad women as "uncovered meat."


Howard said in a radio interview that he was not bothered by
Hilali's latest comments, which were reported in The Australian
newspaper.


"I'm tempted to say we should start treating the man as a joke
and in relation to his comments about me -- well, I've been
insulted by experts so I'm rather untroubled by them," Howard
said.


But he repeated an earlier call for Australia's Islamic community
to sack Hilali as mufti "because he is bringing ridicule upon
them."


Hilali reportedly told The Australian that he had spent 50 years
promoting peace and accused the prime minister of running a
dictatorship.


"It's a disgrace for the leader of a democratic country to be
picking on religious people, especially one who is practising a
form of dictatorship that could almost be Saddam Hussein-like,"
he was quoted as saying.


"I respect Australian values more than he does. Australian people
like peace and they like humanitarian welfare and they are
attracted to just causes."


Hilali, who is on a visit to the Middle East, was responding to
Howard's call earlier this week for him to be sacked after he
reportedly expressed support for the hardline Islamic government
in Iran.


The cleric was quoted in Iran as saying Muslims should serve in
Iranian "trenches," amidst tensions over the Islamic government's
nuclear ambitions.

