

Malaysia's ruling coalition has hailed its victory in a key by-
election as a sign of support for Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad
Badawi amid speculation of a possible early general election.


The by-election in the rural seat of Machap in western Malacca
state Thursday was seen as a barometer of support for opposition
parties.


But meeting expectations, the ruling Barisan Nasional (BN) or
National Front coalition won the poll easily with 5,533 votes
against 1,452 for the opposition Democratic Action Party (DAP).


Deputy Prime Minister Najib Razak said the win was proof of
confidence in Abdullah's leadership and his administration, the
state Bernama news agency reported.


"It shows the people's support for the BN in Machap is still very
strong," Najib was quoted as saying late Thursday after the
result.


Analysts had said the DAP was not expected to win the by-
election, but were on the lookout for a reduced majority for the
ruling coalition.


Despite the landslide win, Najib said the coalition would conduct
an investigation into its slightly reduced majority of 4,081
votes in Thursday's election, compared to its 4,562 margin in the
last state poll in 2004.


In a separate report by Bernama, Abdullah brushed aside concerns
over the reduced majority.


"Although the majority has dwindled, to me, this is normal.
Sometimes the majority increases, sometimes it reduces," he said.


Malaysia must hold a general election by early 2009, but
opposition parties say they expect Abdullah to call a poll before
then to head off what they say is growing disenchantment with his
administration.

