

Singapore has rejected an application for several members of the
European Parliament to speak at a forum organised by an
opposition party in the city- state, the party said Friday.


Chee Soon Juan, secretary-general of the Singapore Democratic
Party (SDP), told AFP that the six European MPs, along with a
member of the Cambodian national assembly and a Philippine
congresswoman, would not be able to address the SDP forum
scheduled for Friday night.


"They're not going to speak," said Chee, one of a few in
Singapore to have spoken out against the People's Action Party
(PAP) which has ruled since 1959.


He said the forum would go ahead.


"It is with great dismay that the Singapore Democrats have learnt
that the police and the Immigration and Checkpoints Authority
(ICA) have rejected our applications for Asian and European
Members of Parliament to speak at a public forum this evening,"
said a notice on the party's website.


Singapore's Ministry of Home Affairs said the SDP had applied to
police for a licence to hold the public forum, and had asked the
ICA for professional visit passes "for several foreigners"
invited to speak at the event.


"The police and ICA respectively have rejected the SDP's
applications for a permit to conduct this public forum and for
professional visit passes for the foreign speakers on the ground
of public interest," the ministry said in a statement.


Since independence in 1965, Singapore has grown from a third-
world country to an Asian economic powerhouse.


But critics say this has come at a price, in the form of
restrictions on freedom of speech and political activity.

