

US troops held a solemn ceremony Thursday to repatriate the
remains of six American soldiers killed in the Korean War more
than half a century ago.


"We mourn your loss. We salute your sacrifice. Your heroic fight
freed a nation and its people. It was just and proper," General
Burwell B. Bell, commander of US troops in South Korea, said in a
speech.


About 500 people attended the ceremony including South Korean
military leaders and New Mexico state Governor Bill Richardson,
who led a delegation to North Korea to recover the remains of the
soldiers.


Richardson and his entourage crossed the heavily fortified border
into South Korea with the remains on Wednesday.


It was the first time in two years that the communist nation has
returned the remains of American soldiers it battled from
1950-53.


Richardson, a Democratic contender for the US presidency,
Wednesday thanked the North for returning the remains
"unconditionally and in a very dignified manner," describing it
as a very positive gesture.


"Hopefully this act will help heal wounds from the Korean War"
and bring closure to families, he said.


Through identity tags known as dog tags, officials have started
the process of identifying three of the remains.


After the ceremony, the remains were transported to a US air base
in Osan, south of Seoul, from which they were to be flown to
Hawaii for identification.


More than 33,000 US troops were killed during the Korean War and
some 8,100 are still listed as missing in action.


Between 1996 and 2005, North Korean and US authorities jointly
recovered 229 sets of US remains after Pyongyang accepted former
US president Jimmy Carter's proposal to retrieve the bodies.


The project was suspended when Washington withdrew its recovery
teams from the North amid growing tension over Pyongyang's
nuclear programme.

