

South and North Korea tried Thursday to settle differences over
more than 1,000 southerners whom Seoul says are being detained by
the communist state.


The South's Red Cross officials called for family reunions for
the abductees and prisoners of war (POWs) separately from an
existing reunion programme for families separated since the
1950-53 Korean War.


But the North's Red Cross threatened to walk out of the meeting
if the South continues to use the terms "POWs and abductees,"
according to a pool report quoted by Yonhap news agency.


Seoul says 485 of its citizens have been kidnapped since the end
of the conflict and 548 prisoners of war were never sent home.
Pyongyang denies holding any South Koreans against their will.


Despite its official denial, it has allowed a selected number of
POWs or abductees to meet South Korean relatives in the North.


"We stressed that there should be a different way to resolve the
POW and abductee issue, which would move the inter-Korean
relationship one step further," said South Korean spokesman Hong
Yang-Ho.


Despite its denials that Koreans were abducted, the North has
admitted kidnapping some Japanese during the Cold War era to
train its spies.


The North was also reluctant to accept the South's request to
hold the  regular family reunions every two months and reunions
via video link every month.


Hong said both sides were working on the wording of a joint
statement before closing the three-day meeting at the North's
Mount Kumgang resort.


The family reunion programme was expanded after a 2000 inter-
Korean peace summit. They are a pressing issue because many
relatives are desperate to see loved ones before they die.


More than 14,000 Koreans have been allowed face-to-face reunions
since the summit. About 2,700 others have been reunited via video
link since August 2005.


Even so, more than 90,000 people from the South alone have not
seen loved ones since the war ended. There are no mail or
telephone services across the heavily fortified border.

