

The four lead players in the Doha Round of global trade talks
were set to meet on Thursday in a race against the clock to
salvage the fragile negotiations.


Ministers for the "group of four" trading powers -- India,
Brazil, the United States and the European Union -- held
bilateral talks on Wednesday to prepare for the four-way session,
an Indian government official said.


The round-table session will mark the first time that the four
trading power brokers have assembled for talks since the Doha
discussions collapsed last July when Washington refused to yield
more ground in cutting farm subsidies.


EU Trade Commissioner Peter Mandelson has warned that
negotiations must be accelerated or "Doha's prospects for this
year will be lost." But US officials have been downplaying
expectations for the meeting, calling it a "stock-taking" effort.


Thursday's meeting will cap a series of informal interactions
that have taken place since the breakdown of the World Trade
Organisation (WTO) talks -- called a once-in-a-generation chance
to raise the standard of livings of millions of poor people.


US Trade Representative Susan Schwab, Mandelson, Indian Commerce
Minister Kamal Nath and Brazilian Foreign Minister Celso Amorim
are taking part in the talks.


A deal between the world's two biggest trading powers, the United
States and EU, and the two leading developing nations India and
Brazil, is seen as crucial to hopes of getting an agreement among
the WTO's 150 members this year.


Australian Trade Minister Warren Truss and Japanese Trade
Minister Akira Amari were due to join the ministers later on
Thursday for more talks.


Before his departure, Truss was quoted by an Australian newspaper
The Age as saying he was "reasonably optimistic that there will
be a successful outcome" to the Doha Round even though "it may
not be as ambitious as we would like."


Analysts have been doubtful that the discussions in New Delhi
will yield much.


The most that can be hoped "is for people to come on the same
page and agree that there is a need to move forward," said T.S.
Vishwanath, head of international trade policy at the
Confederation of Indian Industry.


The WTO has been racing against time to come up with agreement in
the Doha Round before the end of June when the fast track trade
negotiating powers of US President George Bush expire.


Developing nations are pushing the United States and other
wealthy nations to slash farm subsidies, while poorer countries
are being squeezed to allow more access to their markets.


If the logjam can be broken by June, a conclusion to the Doha
talks could be reached in about eight months, WTO officials say.
Otherwise the Doha round, launched in the Qatari capital in 2001,
could face years of foot-dragging.


India's Nath has said he would prefer no deal to a "bad deal"
that did not protect the interests of developing nations.


"This is supposed to be the development round after all," an
Indian government official told AFP.

