

US stocks slid Wednesday as investors were rattled by Federal
Reserve minutes suggesting a rate hike remains on the table and a
downgrade in the US economic outlook by the International
Monetary Fund.


A jump in oil prices added to the negative sentiment on Wall
Street as blue chips ended an eight-session winning streak.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average slumped 89.23 points (0.71
percent) to close at 12,484.62.


The Nasdaq composite skidded 18.30 points (0.74 percent) to
2,459.31 and the Standard and Poor's 500 broad-market index
retreated 9.52 points (0.66 percent) to 1,438.87.


The market opened weaker and the selloff gained momentum after
the Federal Reserve released minutes from its March 20-21 meeting
at which members expressed concerns about "uncomfortably" high
inflation even as economic conditions were softening.


Al Goldman at AG Edwards said the stock market decline was a
normal pullback following a series of solid gains.


"After eight straight 'up' days for the Dow, the stock market was
due for a pullback, and it got one today as questions about the
economy came to the forefront," Goldman said.


The comment that "further policy firming might prove necessary to
foster lower inflation" dampened expectations that the Fed might
be shifting toward a cut in rates to stimulate the economy, said
analysts.


"The Fed's minutes tended to show that further rates increases
might be necessary, which has caused a bit of concern on the
stock market," said Michael Malone, analyst at Cowen and Co.


Analysts at Briefing.com said in a note that the market was
"increasingly sensitive to weak data" and moved lower after the
IMF cut its forecast for US economic growth this year to 2.2
percent, the weakest in five years, citing a sluggish housing
market.


Also hurting was a spike in oil prices after US data showed a
sharp drawdown in gasoline inventories last week.


Crude oil prices gained 12 cents to close at 62.01 dollars a
barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.


Among stocks in focus, Citigroup fell 60 cents to 51.80 dollars
after the global banking giant unveiled a restructuring plan that
will mean some 17,000 job cuts.


Alcoa rose 18 cents to 35.08 on the back of the profit report
from the aluminum giant that beat most market forecasts.


General Motors lost 62 cents to 31.46 after French magazine
Capital said the automaker is eyeing cutting several thousand
jobs at its German affiliate Opel.


Shares in the Nasdaq stock market fell 24 cents to 29.39 on a
report that the electronic exchange is in talks to buy the
Philadelphia Stock Exchange and its options market.


Bonds firmed. The yield on the 10-year US Treasury bond eased to
4.739 percent from 4.745 percent late Tuesday and that on the
30-year bond dipped to 4.915 percent against 4.916 percent. Bond
yields and prices move in opposite directions.

