

AC Milan coach Carlo Ancelotti says there is more to come from
his side after their 2-0 win at Bayern Munich on Wednesday night
booked them a Champions League semi-final against Manchester
United.


Two goals in less than five minutes by Clarence Seedorf and
Filippo Inzaghi midway through the first-half were enough to
cancel out Bayern's slim first-leg advantage, after last week's
2-2 draw, to seal the 4-2 aggregate win.


"It was important we struck an early blow," said Ancelotti, "it
was clear from the first-leg that we desperately wanted to stay
in the competition.


"Everyone played their part, both central defenders were rock
solid and we have more than just Seedorf and Inzaghi to thank.


"Our team has plenty of players with big-game experience, who
relish this type of challenge and know how to win tight games.


"To get to this stage of the tournament was difficult, harder
than in previous years, but we can go on and do well now, I am
sure."


Ancelotti revealed goal-scorer Inzaghi was struggling with an
injury prior to kick-off, but the 33-year-old repaid the faith in
his selection.


"He persuaded me with his desire and motivation, I wasn't sure he
should play and he showed the sort of heart you need to win
crucial matches."


Despite his bitter disappointment, Bayern Munich coach Ottmar
Hitzfeld admitted Milan deserved the win and said the Italian
side will test Manchester United in the last four.


"We didn't show the necessary quality to beat a team of the class
of AC Milan," said Hitzfeld.


"The first 15 minutes were good and we had two good chances, but
after we fell behind, Milan showed their class by hitting us with
another quick goal, we tried to break them down in the second-
half, but we just couldn't find a way through.


"Milan was the best team this evening and the Italians deserved
their win. They are a very clever team, which knows how to take
advantage of the slightest error and they will test Manchester
United."

