

The private equity consortium bidding to take over Australian
national airline Qantas for 9.0 billion US dollars Thursday
dropped its 90 percent acceptance condition to 70 percent.


The Macquarie Bank-led Airline Partners Australia (APA)
consortium said the move had been agreed in talks with its debt
providers, adding that it had declared the offer unconditional
and extended it to May 4.


APA director Bob Mansfield said more than half of Qantas
shareholders -- by number -- had accepted the APA offer and
predicted the takeover would now be successful.


"We believe the overwhelming majority of Qantas shareholders
support the APA offer and the Qantas board's recommendation that
the offer represents great value for shareholders," he said.


The consortium was concerned that many shareholders were
discouraged from accepting the offer in the belief that
opposition by a few vocal shareholders might prevent APA reaching
the 90 percent acceptance condition, he said.


Shareholders could now be confident that the offer would be
successful, he said.


"Remaining Qantas shareholders should accept the offer now if
they want the offer to proceed. We believe that our cash offer of
5.45 Australian dollars per share is full, fair and reasonable,"
Mansfield added.


Over recent weeks, institutional investor Balanced Equity
Management, which owns 4.0 percent of Qantas, said it would not
accept the offer while UBS Global Asset Management, with 6.0
percent was also expected to reject the bid.


APA cannot raise its offer as it declared it final on December
14.

