

The United States welcomed as "serious and credible" a plan
unveiled by Morocco Wednesday to grant self-rule to the disputed
territory of Western Sahara.


US Under Secretary of State Nicholas Burns was briefed on the
proposal by a Moroccan delegation here on Tuesday, a day before
the plan was presented to UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon, the
State Department said.


Burns called the plan "a serious and credible proposal to provide
real autonomy for the Western Sahara," according to a statement
released Wednesday.


"The United States hopes Morocco's presentation of its initiative
to the United Nations will spur discussion and create an
opportunity for Morocco and the Polisario (independence movement)
to engage in direct negotiations, without preconditions, to
resolve the Western Sahara dispute," the statement said.


"The United States welcomes all efforts to find a realistic and
workable solution to this longstanding dispute in a manner that
brings peace, stability, and economic prosperity to the Maghreb,"
it said.


Morocco annexed the desolate but phosphate-rich northwest African
territory after the withdrawal of the region's former colonial
power Spain and neighbor Mauritania in the 1970s, settling it
with around 300,000 Moroccans in 1975.


A war ensued with the Algerian-backed armed Polisario Front,
which contested Rabat's sovereignty, ending only in 1991 with a
UN-brokered ceasefire.


Since then, the United Nations has tried several times to
organise a referendum on self-determination for the region.

