

Top Democrats in Congress denounced Wednesday the Pentagon's
decision to extend troop deployments in Iraq as the consequence
of White House policy "failures."


"Today's announcement just underscores the fact that the burden
of the war in Iraq has fallen upon our troops and their
families," House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said.


"The Bush Administration has failed to create a plan to fully
equip and train our troops, bring them home safely and soon, and
provide our veterans with the quality care they deserve," she
said.


"Extending the tours of all active-duty army personnel is an
unacceptable price for our troops and their families to pay,"
Pelosi said.


US Defense Secretary Robert Gates announced Wednesday that the
deployment of US troops in Iraq and Afghanistan were extended to
15 months, up from 12 months, "effective immediately."


"Once again the failures of this administration are being
underwritten by our troops," said Senate Armed Forces Committee
Chairman Carl Levin.


"The cost of this will fall on the backs of the brave men and
women already serving in harm's way, and their families," he
said.


Joseph Biden, who chairs the Senate Foreign Relations Committee,
said, "If the administration insists on keeping this many troops
in Iraq into next year, it will have to send soldiers back on
third, fourth and fifth tours."


The announcement "undercuts the president's claim that Congress
is straining the military and keeping soldiers from their
families -- and exposes it as nothing more than empty political
rhetoric," said House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer.


Republican Charles Hagel, who has joined Democrats in their call
for a withdrawal, said: "Maintaining this tempo of operations
will have drastic and lasting consequences for our nation's
military readiness and unnecessarily endangers our ability to
react to any other crisis in the world.


"We are on a very dangerous course," Hagel said.

