

A Chinese journalist has been officially rebuked for an expose of
profit-hungry hospitals where doctors prescribed him drugs after
he substituted his urine with tea, state press said Thursday.


His investigative techniques breached the journalists' code of
ethics and harmed the reputations of the doctors, the official
Xinhua news agency quoted health ministry spokesman Mao Qun'an as
saying.


"The aim of the reporter was to improve the country's medical
service, but it has had the opposite effect," Mao said.


"If people keep bringing liquids like beers and sauce as urine
specimens for medical tests, hospitals must add a new procedure
to test whether the specimen is actually urine, which complicates
the simple medical procedures."


The reporter, a local television journalist, made national
headlines last month after going to 10 hospitals in Hangzhou, the
capital of east China's  Zhejiang province, replacing his
supposed urine sample with tea.


His scam was aimed at exposing the corrupt practices of China's
health system, where doctors and hospitals are infamous for
putting profits ahead of their patients' care -- and it worked
spectacularly.


Five of the hospitals claimed they discovered problems in his
"urine" that required treatment and prescribed drugs that cost
more than more than 200 yuan (25 dollars), roughly a week's
salary for many of China's working class.


Mao defended the hospitals, saying perhaps the tea may have had
chemical elements in it that resembled infected urine.


Xinhua cited doctors, chemical experts and other journalists as
ridiculing that suggestion.


"Mao's comments divert attention from the deep-rooted problems in
the medical system," wrote Cao Lin, a widely read columnist on
the popular Sina.com.cn website.


"Doctors should never have written out a prescription for a
costly drug for a simple infection without giving the reporter a
thorough physical exam."

