

Freshly-minted Masters champion Zach Johnson isn't resting on his
laurels.


Just four days after winning his first major championship at The
Masters, Zach Johnson headlines the field for the Heritage, which
starts Thursday at Harbor Town Golf Links.


No Masters champions since Vijay Singh in 2000 has even bothered
to show up here which is a reason why no Masters winner has added
the Heritage's tartan coat and a green jacket to their collection
since Bernhard Langer in 1985.


With just one victory before his breakthrough at Augusta, Johnson
was known as a steady player and hard worker.  Now he is the
centre of attention as the season's first major winner.


"I haven't gotten used to it, and no, I haven't hit a golf ball,"
Johnson said. "I was just talking about that walking over here,
I've got to play golf today.


" It's probably good, get me back into some sort of normalcy. For
whatever reason when you're inside the ropes, it kind of feels
normal because I'm so used to it.  That's going to be kind of
nice."


Also enjoying the stop in Hilton Head is Davis Love, who will
turn 43 on Friday.


The youngest winner in event history, Love won the first of his
five titles in 1987 when he was 23 years, six days old.


Love's last win came in 2003. He was second in 2005 but slipped
to a tie for 47th last season.


Jim Furyk is in the field and has been closing in on a victory
here in recent years. In his last two starts at Harbour Town,
Furyk has finished second and in a tie for second.


Australian Aaron Baddeley is the defending champion. He recorded
his first career victory here last year.


Loren Roberts, the 1996 champion, is making his first PGA Tour
start of the season.  Roberts has posted six top-10 finishes in
seven events on the Champions Tour this season.

