

Two Canadian soldiers were killed in southern Afghanistan
Wednesday as the bodies of six of their comrades who died only
days earlier in a roadside blast were returning home for burial,
officials said.


The latest casualties resulted from "a roadside bomb explosion
near their vehicle shortly before 8 pm local time about 38
kilometers (24 miles) west of Kandahar," National Defense
spokesman John Knoll told AFP.


Two other soldiers were injured, "one seriously," in the attack
but "are considered in stable condition," he said.


A third soldier was also injured in an earlier bomb attack in the
same area, he added.


And a suicide bombing of a Canadian convoy west of Kandahar City
injured 10 Afghan civilians and caused minor damage to a vehicle
earlier in the day.


Canada has deployed some 2,500 soldiers in southern Afghanistan
as part of a NATO operation to quell a Taliban insurgency.


The latest casualties bring the Canadian military death toll in
Afghanistan to 53 since the start of the mission in 2002.


On Easter Sunday, Canada suffered its heaviest single-day troop
loss in 50 years with the death of six soldiers, as the nation
marked the 90th anniversary of a key World War I victory in Vimy,
France.


Their light armored vehicle ran over a bomb about 75 kilometers
(47 miles) west of Kandahar City, while traveling a new route
across an ancient canal system, called a kareez, officials said.


The bomb was rigged with a pressure sensor, a battery and a
detonator, and the explosion was so powerful that the six
soldiers inside the troop compartment died instantly.


A seventh soldier was seriously injured when he was blown out of
a hatch. He is now in "stable condition" in a military hospital
in Halifax in eastern Canada, officials said.


Because Canadians had not taken this road before, authorities
called the Sunday attack a "lucky strike" by the Taliban.

