

Japanese share prices fell 1.09 percent in morning trade on
Thursday, following Wall Street lower on worries about US
interest rates and slowing US economic growth, dealers said.


They said that US stocks had fallen overnight after minutes from
the Federal Reserve's most recent meeting indicated that the
central bank was not ruling out an interest rate hike to curb
inflation.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
fell 192.82 points to 17,477.25 by the lunch break.


The broader TOPIX index of all first-section issues shed 19.49
points or 1.12 percent to 1,719.52.


Decliners outnumbered gainers 1,249 to 327, with 146 issues flat.


Volume was 1.01 billion shares, up from 906 million on Wednesday
morning.


Dealers took their cue from Wall Street where investors reacted
nervously to minutes from the Federal Reserve's March meeting
that showed policymakers were concerned about "uncomfortably
high" inflation.


The remarks "put to rest earlier market speculations of a likely
rate cut sometime soon," said Mitsushige Akino, chief fund
manager at Ichiyoshi Management.


The International Monetary Fund's decision to cut its forecast
for US economic growth this year to 2.2 percent, the weakest in
five years, also weighed on sentiment, dealers said.


Akino said investors were also reluctant to buy up shares because
of the upcoming corporate earnings reporting season in Japan and
the US.


Friday's special quotation fixing for the April stock index
option also added to the market's cautious tone, dealers said.


Among electronics shares, Matsushita Electric Industrial fell 55
yen or 2.3 percent to 2,380, Sony dropped 70 or 1.1 percent to
6,350 and Sharp declined 55 or 2.3 percent to 2,355.


Other technology shares were lower. Advantest was down 100 yen or
1.8 percent at 5,500, Tokyo Electron fell 180 or 2.1 percent to
8,560 and NEC Electronics shed 70 or 2.2 percent to 3,060.


Among automakers, Nissan was down 23 yen or 1.8 percent at 1,248,
Toyota Motor slipped 110 or 1.5 percent to 7,360 and Mazda Motor
declined 15 or 2.3 percent to 637.

