

Australian share prices closed up 0.11 percent Thursday at a new
record high, supported by strong local fundamentals in the face
of declines in US markets, dealers said.


The benchmark SP/ASX 200 closed up 6.8 points at 6,158.2, beating
Tuesday's record close of 6,153.0.


The broader All Ordinaries index rose 6.7 points to a record
close of 6,142.8.


A total of 1.78 billion shares worth 5.86 billion dollars (4.84
billion US) were traded, with rises outnumbering falls 658 to 598
and 319 stocks unchanged.


CMC Markets chief equity analyst David Land said the resilience
of the market was surprising considering how strong it had been
of late and the negative lead from Wall Street overnight.


"It's not that I think the market doesn't have a lot of positive
momentum in it, but just not to have a rest period particularly
after such a strong run-up and what was quite a negative lead,"
he said.


Land noted that a number of the index leaders such as BHP
Billiton and Westfield were in negative territory, with gains in
the big banks propping the whole index up.


The nation's leading retailer Woolworths rose on expectations it
could still make a bid for part of Coles Group's assets and trump
both Wesfarmers takeover offer and a possible further tilt from a
private equity consortium led by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts (KKR).


Woolworths shares climbed 0.13 to finish at 27.94 dollars, Coles
Group gained 0.10 to 17.48 while Wesfarmers slipped 0.01 to
39.00.


Flag carrier Qantas advanced toward the end of the trading
session after the Macquarie Bank-led Airline Partners Australia
(APA) consortium lowered its takeover acceptance condition to 70
percent from 90 percent.


Qantas shares ended up 0.08 at 5.39.


But Africa-based uranium miner Paladin Resources dropped on
increasing its scrip takeover offer for uranium explorer Summit
Resources to 1.228 billion dollars from the previous offer of
1.011 billion.


Paladin shares lost 0.38 or 3.66 percent to close at 10.00 but
Summit Resources jumped 0.20 or 3.45 percent to 6.00.


Commonwealth Bank shares rose 0.40 to close at 51.60, National
Australia Bank gained 0.07 to 42.30, ANZ added 0.03 to 30.18
while Westpac eased 0.06 to 26.29.


News Corp retreated 0.06 to 30.30 and its non-voting stock shed
0.09 to 28.35.


Telstra rose 0.07 to 4.88, its T3 receipts also gained 0.07 to
3.42 while SingTel eased 0.01 to 2.74.


BHP Billiton dropped 0.37 to 30.23 but Rio Tinto advanced 0.27 to
83.77.


Westfield dropped 0.22 to 21.28 on US interest rate concerns
while GPT was steady at 5.12.

