

World Bank president Paul Wolfowitz personally ordered the hefty
pay rise given to his girlfriend at the bank, the Financial Times
website reported on Thursday.


It cited two people who had seen a memo from Wolfowitz to the
head of human resources spelling out the terms of the nearly
200,000-dollar package for Shaha Riza, a bank official with whom
he was romantically involved.


Under the deal the Libyan-born Riza was also promoted and
eventually seconded to the US State Department, where US
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice reportedly earns less than
she does.


She was transferred to the State Department in line with World
Bank regulations to avoid conflict of interest after Wolfowitz's
appointment.


But the furore that has erupted after details of Riza's pay
became public now threatens to overshadow this weekend's annual
spring meeting of the World Bank and has raised questions about
Wolfowitz's future at the bank's helm.


It also comes with Wolfowitz, previously one of the major US
strategists for the war in Iraq, waging a public and occasionally
unpopular campaign against corruption in World Bank lending.


The Financial Times said it had not seen the August 11, 2005
Wolfowitz memo but that according to two sources who had, he set
out Riza's salary, the details for her promotion and the basis
for calculating pay rises in future.


In a statement to staff Monday that did not mention Riza by name,
Wolfowitz said he accepted "full responsibility" for the case,
which is now being investigated by the bank's board of governors.

