

The UN has apologized for postponing the opening of an exhibit
marking the anniversary of the 1994 Rwanda genocide over Turkish
objections to a reference to the killing of Armenians in Turkey
during World War I, the Rwandan ambassador said Wednesday.


"We were contacted by UN Under Secretary General (for public
information Kiyotaka Akasaka) who told me they are reviewing the
text (of the exhibit)," Rwanda's permanent UN representative
Joseph Nsengimana told AFP. "He apologizes. The exhibit will
(officially) open very soon."


The exhibit, which was to have been inaugurated by UN chief Ban
Ki-moon, is meant to commemorate the 13th anniversary of the
Rwandan genocide during which Hutu extremists killed some 800,000
people, most of them ethnic minority Tutsis.


Farhan Haq, a UN spokesman, said the controversy arose when a
Turkish diplomat walked by the exhibit as it was being put up
last week and complained about a reference to the killing of
several hundred thousand Armenians in Turkey during World War I.


He said the reference was on a small panel with a quotation from
Raphael Lemkin, the Polish-born Jewish lawyer who coined the word
genocide in 1943, had earlier shown interest in the Armenian
"genocide" and campaigned in the League of Nations to ban what he
called "barbarity" and "vandalism."


Haq said a review panel made up of officials of the UN
departments of public information and political affairs as well
as those with expertise in genocide affairs would now look over
the photographs and the text of the exhibit ahead of the
inauguration.


"This is what they were supposed to have done," he said. "I am
hoping it will be very quick."


The exhibit is partly organized by Aegis Trust, a British-based
international organization lobbying to prevent genocide
worldwide.

