

The dollar was mixed Wednesday as the International Monetary Fund
said the United States was experiencing a "growth pause" keeping
the world's largest economy on a subpar expansion pace.


Despite the slowdown, however, the IMF said the world's largest
economy was unlikely to slump into a recession.


The euro was trading at 1.3428 dollars at 2100 GMT against 1.3438
on Tuesday in New York.


The dollar meanwhile was changing hands at 119.34 yen, up from
119.02 against the Japanese currency on Tuesday.


The euro leapt at one point to 160.45 yen, a new record high
since the creation of the single currency, and then settled back
to 160.27 from 159.97 in New York late on Tuesday.


The IMF said in its semiannual World Economic Outlook report that
the US economy will expand at a tepid 2.2 percent pace in 2007 as
downturns in housing and manufacturing remain drags on growth.


"While uncertainties remain .... a growth pause still seems more
likely at this stage than a recession," the IMF said.


The report lowered by 0.7 percentage points the outlook for 2007
gross domestic product (GDP) compared with the IMF report in
September, and added that the "balance of risks to this less
buoyant outlook remains on the downside."


The forecast is notably lower than the outlook from the US
Federal Reserve of 2007 growth of between 2.5 and 3.0 percent for
2007.


For the first time since 2001, the US outlook is weaker than that
of the eurozone, expected to expanded at a 2.3 percent pace in
2007, according to the IMF.


The euro has climbed steadily against the dollar in the past
year.


The dollar showed a muted reaction to the release of the minutes
from the Federal Reserve's last interest rate meeting in March at
which the central bank opted to keep its key short term rate
anchored at 5.25 percent.


Fed policymakers expressed concerns about "uncomfortably high"
inflation and softening economic conditions but remained
optimistic about improvements, the minutes stated.


The minutes also cited concerns on both the growth and inflation
front, but showed members expected such problems to ease.


"Meeting participants agreed that, while recent economic data had
been mixed, the economy was likely to expand at a moderate pace
in coming quarter," the minutes showed.


Traders said meanwhile that the market was wary ahead of the
upcoming meeting of G7 countries in Washington, where the subject
of yen weakness could be a topic for discussion.


While analysts did not think the yen would be mentioned
explicitly, they did expect a reiterated warning on "one-way
bets" -- a comment made at February's G7 meeting in Germany that
was taken to refer to yen weakness.


In late New York trade, the dollar stood at 1.2207 Swiss francs
after 1.2164 Tuesday.


The British pound was being traded at 1.9752 dollars from 1.9726.

