

China's imports of iron ore jumped 23.4 percent in the first
quarter from a year ago as companies piled up stock before
international price hikes took effect this month, state media
said Thursday.


In the first three months of this year, China imported 100.2
million tonnes of iron ore, up 23.4 percent year on year, the
Xinhua news agency reported, citing figures from the General
Administration of Customs.


Chinese companies paid 7.1 billion yuan (919 million dollars) for
the imports, up 39.7 percent from the same period last year.


"Enterprises were trying to buy iron ore before the 9.5 percent
price hike on the international market on April 1," said Chen
Xianwen, director of the market research department of the China
Iron and Steel Association.


Chen said high steel production in the first two month was
another factor boosting domestic demand.


Steel product exports rocketed 118.4 percent from a year earlier
to 14.1 million tonnes in the first three months, according to
customs figures.


As the world's biggest iron consumer, China imported 326.3
million tonnes of iron ore in 2006, up 18.6 percent on the year.


Official figures also showed that crude steel output reached
418.8 million tonnes last year, surging 313.8 percent in 10
years.


Sustaining high demand from China has stimulated iron ore prices
on the international market to soar in recent years.


In December last year, China's top steel maker Baosteel agreed
with the world's major suppliers a price increase of 9.5 percent
in 2007 for ore, which followed a 19 percent rise in 2006 and a
71.5 percent hike in 2005.


The China Iron and Steel Association forecast earlier that China
was likely to import 355 million tonnes of iron ore in 2007, up
10 percent from a year ago.

