

A Mexican telecoms tycoon has become the second richest man in
the world, pushing US investment guru Warren Buffett into third
place and breathing down the neck of Microsoft founder Bill
Gates, Forbes.com reported Wednesday.


Carlos Slim Helu quietly slipped past Buffett at the end of last
month thanks to his rising stock, and was valued at the close of
trade Wednesday at 53.1 billion dollars, 700 million dollars more
than Buffett, Forbes said.


Now only Gates, valued as the richest man in the world for the
last 13 years, is ahead of Slim.


And while slim may be catching up, Gates, who stepped aside as
Microsoft chief in 2000 to devote his energies to the
philanthropic foundation he runs with his wife Melinda, is still
sitting on a nest egg of 56 billion dollars.


Slim, 67, has added a staggering 23 billion dollars to his
personal fortune over the last 14 months, thanks largely to a
strong Mexican economy and a stock market that jumped nearly 50
percent last year.


He accrued four billion dollars of that just since Forbes
unveiled its annual rich list in early March, giving Slim the
equivalent of roughly seven percent of Mexico's annual economic
output, according to Forbes.


The tycoon has brushed off criticism that his Telmex company is
effectively a monopoly, saying earlier this year: "When you live
for others' opinions, you are dead. I don't want to live thinking
about how I'll be remembered."


He has derided Gates and Buffett for giving away so much of their
wealth, reportedly saying: "Poverty isn't solved with donations,"
according to Forbes.


Building businesses, he reportedly said, did more for society
than "going around like Santa Claus."

