

Pro-government forces in Myanmar have seized four key ethnic
Karen rebel bases, after several days of fierce fighting near the
Thai border, Thai military officials said Thursday.


Myanmar's military and a pro-government militia seized the Karen
National Union bases after nearly a week of fighting that saw
mortar and other artillery being fired near the Thai border, said
Colonel Kasem Tanaporn, a Thai border official.


A few shells landed on the Thai side of the border, but no one
was injured, he said.


Some 300 people had crossed into Thailand during the week to
escape the fighting, but most had returned once the violence
ended Wednesday, said Phumchai Tapankaew, leader of a Thai
district along the border.


Myanmar military analyst Win Min said that one of the bases was
the headquarters of KNU's Brigade 7, one of the most important of
the rebels' seven brigades because it controlled key border
crossing points to allow forces to slip in and out of the
country.


"Compared to other brigades, Brigade 7 is not the strongest, but
it's a big area for ceremonies and border crossings," he said.


The brigade's leader, General Htain Maung, surrendered to Myanmar
in February along with 300 fighters.


"That's the main reason that they lost, because he knew the area
very well," Win Min said of the military's latest conquests.


The KNU is the largest rebel group fighting Myanmar's armed
forces and one of the few remaining ethnic insurgent groups yet
to sign a peace deal with the junta.


Myanmar, under military rule since 1962, has signed ceasefires
with 17 other ethnic armed groups.


Up to 150,000 Karen refugees already live in camps along
Thailand's border with Myanmar. Many of them have been there for
more than 20 years.

