

Mike Barnett, who was Wayne Gretzky's right-hand man for over 25
years, was fired by the Phoenix Coyotes Wednesday along with two
other front office personnel.


The Coyotes fired Barnett, assistant general manager Laurence
Gillman and vice president of hockey operations Cliff Fletcher
just days after the team completed a disappointing 31-46-5
season.


"Our entire organization wishes each of them good luck in their
future endeavors, and we sincerely thank them for their
contributions to this franchise," said Phoenix chief executive
Jeff Shumway.


"The organization will conduct a complete and thorough search for
a general manager.


"In the interim, managing partner and head coach Wayne Gretzky
will oversee all aspects of hockey operations."


The move comes one day after assistant coach Barry Smith
announced he was leaving the National Hockey League club to
become the coach of SKA St. Petersburgh of the Russian Elite
League.


Barnett served as Gretzky's agent  for 21 years before joining
the Coyotes in August 2001, six months after Gretzky - the NHL's
all-time leading scorer - assumed his role as the franchise's
managing partner.


Gretzky signed a multi-year deal to be Phoenix's coach in August
2005 and guided the Coyotes to a 38-39-5 record in the 2005-06
season.


But the Coyotes struggled this past season, recording the worst
record in the Western Conference and the second-worst mark in the
league.

