

Peyton Manning and the defending Super Bowl champion Indianapolis
Colts will host New Orleans in the Thursday opener on September 6
for the first of their five prime time appearances.


The Dallas Cowboys, who lost in the wild card round last January,
will make one more prime time appearance than the Colts as the
National Football League released the 2007 schedule on Wednesday.


With Wade Phillips replacing Bill Parcells as coach, the Cowboys
host the New York Giants in the first Sunday night game on
September 9. Dallas has five more night games after that along
with its traditional Thanksgiving Day contest.


Dallas will play one Monday night game on October 8 at Buffalo
and a Saturday night game at Carolina on December 22.


The Cowboys will host the New York Jets on Thanksgiving Day and
will play again the following Thursday at home against Brett
Favre and the Green Bay Packers.


The NFL's second all-time leader in passing yards and touchdowns,
Favre will perform on Thanksgiving Day at Detroit before facing
the Cowboys the following week.


Favre will be on prime time on two other occasions - at home
against the defending NFC champion Chicago Bears on Sunday,
October 7 and at Denver on Monday, October 29.


Manning, the MVP of Super Bowl XLI, gets to play on Thanksgiving
for the second time in four years as the Colts visit Michael Vick
and the Atlanta Falcons on November 22. Manning and the Colts
will be on Monday night once - at AFC South rival Jacksonville on
October 22.


The Colts have two Sunday night games against San Diego on
November 11 and at Baltimore on December 9.


Manning duels New England's Tom Brady in a rematch of last
season's AFC championship game on November 4 at the RCA Dome.


Chicago opens the season at San Diego, which had the NFL's best
record in 2006.

