

China's foreign exchange reserves, already the world's largest,
surpassed 1.2 trillion dollars at the end of March, the central
bank said Thursday.


At 1.202 trillion dollars, the reserves were up 12.7 percent from
the beginning of the year, and 37.4 percent from 12 months
earlier, the People's Bank of China said in a statement on its
website.


The trade surplus, one main source of the bulging reserves, stood
at 46.6 billion dollars in the first three months, while foreign
direct investment, another main source, reached 15.9 billion
dollars, data released earlier showed.


The two figures added together, 62.5 billion dollars, were well
below the increase of 135.7 billion dollars in reserves in the
first three months of the year. The bank gave no explanation for
the disparity.


The announcement of the reserves came a few days after a senior
legislator said China needed only 650 billion dollars for
security purposes.


Just 450 billion dollars are needed as strategic reserves, said
Cheng Siwei, vice-chairman of the standing committee of the
National People's Congress, China's parliament, according to the
China Securities Journal.


Strategic reserves refer to the portion of a country's forex
reserves sufficient to pay for three months of imports and ensure
economic stability, the paper said earlier this month.


Another 200 billion dollars are needed to fund the overseas
investment strategies of corporations and meet Chinese citizens'
needs, Cheng added.


A large proportion of China's forex reserves are believed to be
tied up in relatively low-yield US Treasury bonds.


As part of its efforts to maximise returns, the government is
preparing to set up a state-controlled investment firm, which
will reportedly manage a fifth of the forex reserves.

