

South Korea's central bank on Thursday left its key interest rate
unchanged for the eighth straight month, amid a cooling property
market and subdued inflationary pressure.


After a monthly policy-setting meeting, the April target for the
call rate remains unchanged at a five-year high of 4.5 percent.


The Bank of Korea has kept the rate, the interest charged on
overnight inter- bank loans, unchanged since last September after
three rises earlier last year.


"The economy has been at the bottom of the growth cycle between
the fourth quarter last year and the first quarter and will begin
to show moderate improvements from now on," said governor Lee
Seong-Tae.


"External factors such as the US housing market problem won't
likely deteriorate to the point they hurt the economy," Yonhap
news agency quoted him as saying.


"We've decided to wait and see how growing lending by financial
institutions will affect the rising liquidity, as deposit rates
are also going up."


Bank lending to corporations reached a 38-month high in March,
mainly because loans to smaller companies rocketed to a new high
of 6.8 trillion won (7.28 billion dollars).


"Consumer price inflation and core inflation both remain stable,"
the central bank said in a statement. "The upward pace of real
estate prices has slowed down."


Exports continue to show steady growth, facility and construction
investment maintain a robust growth rate and private consumption
appears to be recovering, it said.


The bank said overall liquidity conditions are favorable and
financial institutions' lending has shown a steady increase, led
by loans to small and medium enterprises.


The central bank expects Asia's third largest economy to grow 4.4
percent this year compared to five percent last year.

