

Australian miner Paladin Thursday increased its offer for Summit
Resources after the uranium explorer formed a strategic alliance
with French nuclear group Areva to block the takeover.


Paladin Resources Ltd said it would now offer one Paladin share
for every 1.67 Summit shares, up from the previous offer of one
for 2.04 shares, valuing Summit at 6.22 dollars per share or 1.23
billion dollars (1.01 billion US).


Paladin said the revised offer presented a better deal for
shareholders than the alliance with Areva and would be extended
by 14 days to April 27.


Under the arrangement with Areva, the French company would take
an initial nine percent stake in Summit, buying 19.5 million
shares at 6.20 dollars each.


Areva would have the option of buying a further nine percent at
7.20 dollars per share within two to six months of the first
placement.


In conjunction with the second share subscription, Areva was to
be appointed to market two-thirds of Summit's share of potential
uranium production from its Australian projects.


Summit said the arrangement would give the company a greater
ability to take uranium assets to production without ceding
control.


Summit directors earlier this year rejected Paladin's initial one
billion dollar takeover bid, deeming it opportunistic and
inadequate.


Paladin chief executive John Borshoff said Thursday, however,
that Summit shareholders should realize that when the Areva deal
is taken in its entirety, the price it is paying is substantially
below Summit's headline figures.


Australia has the world's largest known deposits of uranium but
only two mines are commercially operational in the country.


New uranium mines are restricted by state bans but the federal
government is pushing for these to be overturned to allow for the
development of the country's nuclear industry.

