

Sri Lanka caught more drug traffickers last year largely due to
tough security measures put in place by the government to counter
attacks by Tamil Tiger rebels, officials said Thursday.


The number of drug-related arrests rose 69 percent to 47,298 last
year over 2005, the anti-drug authority said. Most arrests were
for cannabis or heroin offences.


"We had more manpower to conduct raids last year," the anti-drug
body's executive director Karunadasa Gamage said. "Drug routes
were also disrupted as there were more routine security checks
which slowed down supplies."


Security measures against Tiger rebels helped to slow the
transport of illegal drugs, officials said, adding that the
increased road blocks and random checks had also deterred some
dealers.


Drug traffickers face the death penalty in Sri Lanka, although
capital punishment has not been carried out since 1976. A death
sentence is automatically commuted to life imprisonment.


Authorities arrested nine foreigners for possession and
trafficking heroin, cannabis and opium last year.


In 2006, drug busters seized 18,219 kilogrammes (40,080 pounds)
of cannabis and 65 kilos of heroin during islandwide raids, he
said. Officials also seized small amounts of opium and hashish.


Last year, a kilo of cannabis was sold for between 8,500 and
11,000 rupees (80-100 dollars) to a foreigner, while locals paid
between 6,000 to 7,000 rupees for the same quantity, according to
anti-drug authority figures.


Foreigners paid four million rupees for a kilo of heroin, while
locals paid 2.8 million rupees, officials said.


Around 12,000 Sri Lankans are currently behind bars serving
sentences for drug- related offences. The anti-drug authority
estimates Sri Lanka has around 45,000 heroin users and more than
200,000 cannabis users.


The number of women drug users, however, is less than two percent
and Gamage said that many of these are sex workers.

