

Fiji's coup leader Voreqe Bainimarama suspended the country's
powerful indigenous chiefs' council Thursday after describing it
as a threat to security.


The military chief and self-proclaimed interim prime minister
suspended meetings of the the Great Council of Chiefs
indefinitely after it rejected on Wednesday his government's
nomination for the vice presidency.


"They now constitute a security threat in our efforts to move the
country forward," Bainimarama told a press conference.


"We would also state that we do not recognise the membership of
the GCC and as of now suspend all meetings of the (GCC)," he
said.


The military chief has set himself against one of the country's
most influential bodies, which under the constitution has the
power to appoint the president and vice president.


He was angered on Wednesday when the GCC rejected his nomination
of foreign minister Ratu Epeli Nailatikau for vice-president. The
council reportedly considered Nailatikau to be be a member of an
illegal regime following December's coup.


Bainimarama said the council had "betrayed its trust and its good
standing in our nation".


The conflict has sabotaged Bainimarama's attempts to project an
image of unity in Fiji since the overthrow of prime minister
Laisenia Qarase's nationalist government, which had won elections
in May last year.


The council had backed Qarase in his conflict with the military
in the lead-up to the coup, and refused to endorse Bainimarama's
takeover.


The military chief launched the bloodless coup -- Fiji's fourth
putsch in two decades -- after months of accusing Qarase's
government of corruption and racism against the country's ethnic
Indian minority.

