

Tamil Tiger rebels in Sri Lanka have been illegally using a
satellite of US giant Intelsat to beam their radio and television
broadcasts overseas, the company said Wednesday.


"We have been actively pursuing avenues to terminate the illegal
usage of our satellite," Nick Mitsis, the spokesman for Intelsat,
the world's largest provider of fixed satellite services, told
AFP.


The Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE), fighting for
independence in Sri Lanka's northern and eastern regions, has
been blacklisted as a terrorist organization by the United States
since 1997.


Intelsat officials and technical experts met with Sri Lanka's
Ambassador to the United States Bernard Goonetilleke on Tuesday
to discuss steps Intelsat was taking "to address the unauthorized
use of one of its satellites by the LTTE," an Intelsat statement
said.


During the meeting, Intelsat's executive vice-president and
general counsel Phillip Spector said "Intelsat does not tolerate
terrorists or others operating illegally on its satellites," the
statement said.


"Since we first learned of the LTTE's signal piracy, we have been
actively pursuing a number of technical alternatives to halt the
transmissions," it said.


"We are clear in our resolve to ending this terrorist
organization's unauthorized use of our satellite," it added.


Intelsat pointed out that the illegal transmissions were a
violation of laws of both the United States and Sri Lanka.


Goonetilleke said: "I am satisfied that Intelsat is taking these
unauthorized transmissions very seriously."


The issue was also taken up by Sri Lanka at a meeting of the
International Telecommunications Satellite Organization in Paris
last month, Sri Lankan officials said.

