

The euro struck a record high against the yen and a two-year best
versus the dollar in Asia Thursday as traders bet that the
European Central Bank will signal more interest rate rises ahead,
dealers said.


They said that the dollar was mixed following a downgrade by the
International Monetary Fund to its US growth forecast and signs
that US monetary policymakers are worried by inflation.


The dollar was steady at 119.36 yen in Tokyo afternoon trade from
119.34 late Wednesday in New York.


The euro gained to 1.3464 dollars after 1.3428 and to 160.70 yen
from 160.27, after setting a new all-time high of about 160.85.


Dealers said that near-term prospects for the euro would depend
on the remarks of European Central Bank president Jean-Claude
Trichet after a meeting Thursday when interest rates are expected
to be held at 3.75 percent.


The ECB has raised eurozone borrowing costs seven times since
December 2005, each time by a quarter of a percentage point. Many
economists expect another rate rise in June to 4.0 percent.


In contrast the IMF on Wednesday urged Japan's central bank to
keep its interest rates low with inflation still "uncomfortably"
close to zero.


"The yen is the weakest currency right now, affected by various
factors," said Marito Ueda, a currency trader at FM Prime.


Japan's low interest rates have encouraged speculators to borrow
cheaply here to invest in higher-yielding assets elsewhere -- the
yen carry trade.


National Australia Bank strategist John Kyriakopoulos said that
this practice had been encouraged by comments from the IMF chief
economist that the carry trade was not as destabilising for
financial markets as some think.


"This reduced fears that yen weakness will be discussed at the G7
meeting in Washington," he added.


Market players doubt that the Group of Seven finance ministers
gathering this Friday in Washington will speak out about the
yen's weakness, which European officials say is hurting eurozone
exports.


But they may reiterate their warning on "one-way bets" -- a
comment made at February's G7 meeting in Germany that was taken
to refer to yen weakness.


The market was mulling the minutes from the Federal Reserve's
March meeting that showed policymakers were concerned about
"uncomfortably high" inflation, suggesting they are unlikely to
cut interest rates soon, dealers said.


The IMF said that the United States was experiencing a "growth
pause" but was unlikely to slump into a recession.


"The outlook of the US economy is increasingly for the scenario
of soft- landing," said Ueda at FM Prime.


The dollar gained to 1.5196 Singapore dollars from 1.5182 in late
Asian trade on Wednesday, to 33.132 Taiwan dollars from 33.085,
to 47.99 Philippine pesos from 47.94, and to 34.96 Thai baht from
32.75.


It fell to 931.00 South Korean won from 933.30, while holding
steady at 9,103 Indonesian rupiah.

