

An Australian court Thursday cleared the way for the extradition
to Croatia of a man accused of committing war crimes during the
Balkans conflict of the early 1990s.


Former Serb paramilitary leader Dragan Vasiljkovic, also known as
"Captain Dragan", was arrested in January last year after Croatia
formally requested his extradition.


Vasiljkovic fought legal battles to stay in Australia, but Sydney
Central Local Court magistrate Paul Cloran declared Thursday that
Vasiljkovic was "eligible for surrender to the Republic of
Croatia."


He has 15 days to appeal in the Federal Court against his
extradition.


The 51-year-old, who was working as a golf instructor in the
western city of Perth until shortly before his arrest, had
earlier argued in the High Court that he had been detained
illegally as Australia had no extradition treaty with Croatia.


But judges dismissed the challenge and extradition proceedings
continued.


According to court documents Vasiljkovic has lived in Australia
since 1969 but temporarily left the country in the early 1990s to
fight in the Balkans conflict.


Croatian judicial authorities accuse him of atrocities during the
country's 1991-1995 war of independence from the former
Yugoslavia, which was opposed by rebel Serbs.


He is suspected of involvement in the torture and killing of
Croatian civilians and prisoners of war in the rebel Serb
stronghold of Knin in 1991 and the southern village of Bruska in
1993.


Vasiljkovic has denied committing war crimes but admitted in
media interviews to training Serbian recruits, killing in combat
and interrogating enemy soldiers.

