

A hardline Islamic militant group Thursday made a rare appeal to
Muslim guerrillas and separatist politicians to work together on
a joint council to help resolve the dispute over Kashmir.


"We advise Hurriyat Conference, United Jihad Council and other
pro-freedom parties to form a joint council to devise a future
strategy," the spokesman for Lashkar-e-Taiba told local
newspapers.


Hurriyat is the main political separatist alliance, but has split
between moderates and hardliners.


The Pakistan-based United Jihad Council groups all the major
indigenous Kashmiri militant groups.


In-fighting among separatists has angered Kashmiris sympathetic
towards the anti-Indian insurgency in Kashmir.


It was the first call by a militant force to set up such a
council.


"Our sincere appeal to the divided Kashmiri leadership is to give
up their differences and come under one roof. If they don't get
united at this crucial juncture, coming generations will never
forgive them," Abdullah Gaznavi said.


The appeal came as India and Pakistan pursue a peace process
launched in January 2004 which has seen a series of confidence-
building measures between the nuclear-armed neighbours.


Kashmiri leaders have not been involved in these talks, despite
India and Pakistan each holding talks with moderate separatists.


Gaznavi said Kashmiri leaders needed to realise their
responsibilities and "not allow any solution to be imposed on the
people of Kashmir."


"Without the inclusion of Kashmiris, the Kashmir issue cannot be
resolved," he said and warned that his outfit "will carry on with
fedayeen (suicide) attacks and other activities until India gives
Kashmiris their right to self determination."


The insurgency launched against Indian rule over part of Kashmir
in 1989 has left more than 42,000 people dead by official count.
Separatists put the toll around 100,000.

