

The head of an Australian observer group Tuesday hailed East
Timor's first presidential election since independence in 2002 as
peaceful and transparent.


Member of parliament David Tollner said he had received no
reports of violence or intimidation of voters and had been
"extremely impressed" with the overall conduct of the vote.


"It's very difficult, of course, to get information from across
Timor," he told the Australian Broadcasting Corporation from
Dili.


"But certainly everything that we've seen has been very peaceful
and orderly and well run.


"People treated the election process almost reverentially. At one
place we were at, people were lined up  -- literally 400 people
in a line, breast to back -- like sardines in the hot sun for
three hours to vote, and there was no tension there at all."


Tollner defended the time taken to count the votes.


"It is taking a long time, there's no doubt about that, but I
have to say the system is extraordinarily transparent. It's
transparent to the point where it's rather boring," he said.


"On one hand people complain it's taking too long, but on the
other hand there should be no doubt about the results when they
come through."


UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon has also hailed the conduct of
the elections, calling the process "an important step on the path
to peace and stability."


Vote-counting began in the former Portuguese colony Monday after
a peaceful presidential election which raised hopes for an end to
the cycle of violence that has gripped the nation.


More than half the population of about one million was registered
to vote in the election to replace the charismatic former
guerrilla leader Xanana Gusmao.

