

French AIDS researchers said Monday they hoped a vaccine could be
developed using knowledge about the small number of HIV patients
who manage to resist the virus without treatment over a long
time.


"There is a minority of patients, less than one percent, who have
found in their immune system the capacity for a robust anti-viral
response, which is exactly what you'd expect from a vaccine,"
Jean-Francois Delfraissy, head of France's national AIDS research
agency, told AFP.


Delfraissy and others have been studying how some HIV carriers
manage to control the virus.


Their findings, published in US publication "Proceedings of the
National Academy of Sciences", show how some immune cells, called
CD8 cells, are able to prevent the spreading of an HIV infection
in a small number of patients.


Those patients remain HIV-positive because they continue to
produce antibodies against HIV, but the infection is otherwise
untraceable, and no treatment is required.


The researchers said the pivotal role of CD8 cells could lead to
the development of a vaccine for those patients, a large
majority, whose immune system cannot spontaneously activate their
powerful anti-HIV potential.


Mutating and with several lines of defence, HIV has been the most
redoubtable foe that vaccine designers have ever faced.


But in February, a US research team said it had taken a tiny
snapshot of a key location on the tip of the HIV virus's docking
spike that is stable und unmutating -- in other words, a fixed
target.


The team said a that the spike was recognised by a specific
antibody, called b12, found in the blood of people who are able
to hold the virus at bay for long periods.

