

Chinese share prices shrugged off morning losses to rise 1.33
percent Tuesday for a seventh consecutive record finish as the
market continued to power ahead despite occasional profit-taking,
dealers said.


They said trade was once again very heavy, running at record
levels around 30 billion dollars, with the early reverse seen as
just a modest technical correction as investors continued to pour
into the market.


Sustained fresh fund inflows continue to drive stocks against the
backdrop of a fast growing economy, with the market looking to
corporate results for its immediate lead.


Some dealers cautioned again that there was a risk of a
significant correction, especially once the results season closes
at the end of the month, but for the moment investors seem only
intent on getting into the market, as reflected in the record
turnover.


The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index, which covers both A- and
B-shares, closed up 45.34 points at 3,444.29. Turnover hit a
record 152.94 billion yuan (19.79 billion US dollars).


The Shanghai A-share Index rose 47.89 points or 1.34 percent to
3,620.30 on turnover of 152.30 billion yuan and the Shenzhen
A-share Index added 11.67 points or 1.23 percent at 960.77,
another record, on turnover of 76.16 billion yuan.


"The record high turnover indicated that buying interest remains
strong despite early morning profit-taking as investors are
confident about corporate profitability for the year," said Wang
Mingzhi, an analyst at GF Securities.


Analysts said the market is unlikely to see any major correction,
at least until the end of this month.


"In the near future, the market is expected to maintain its
bullish trend in a slow and steady manner but there might be some
big corrections at the end of this month after most companies
issue their annual and quarterly reports," said Shen Jun, an
analyst at Shangzhenglian Consulting, said.


Steelmakers were boosted by a strong profit forecast from Baoshan
Iron and Steel, dealers said.


Baosteel was up 0.44 yuan or 4.17 percent at 10.99 after it said
it expects first-quarter net profit to have risen by more than
150 percent year-on-year due to rising prices of steel products
and tighter cost controls.


Bengang Steel Plates was up its 10 percent daily limit at 11.04
yuan, with Anyang Iron Steel also up 10 percent at 6.55.


Financials remained in demand thanks to their solid earnings.
China Merchants Bank added 0.58 yuan or 3.33 percent at 18.00,
Ping An Insurance put on up 1.21 yuan or 2.34 percent at 52.82
and Bank of China rose 0.21 yuan or 3.70 percent at 5.88.


Sinopec was up 0.21 yuan or 2.03 percent at 10.57 after its 2006
results while Sinopec Shanghai Petrochemical added 0.30 yuan or
2.90 percent at 10.66 after forecasting a return to profitability
in the first quarter.


Telecom stocks were hit by profit-taking with China United
Telecommunications Corp down 0.05 yuan or 0.88 percent at 5.65.


The Shanghai B-share Index was up 0.64 points or 0.34 percent at
189.40 on turnover of 639.98 million US dollars and the Shenzhen
B-share Index put on 0.72 points or 0.13 percent at 547.12, a
fresh closing high, on turnover of 833.95 million Hong Kong
dollars (107.88 million US dolars).

