

Joe Sakic, who has played 18 seasons with the same organization,
signed a one- year contract extension with the Colorado Avalanche
on Monday.


Financial terms were not disclosed for Sakic, who signed a one-
year, 5.75 million dollar deal after last season.


"As I've said in the past, at his stage in my career, I prefer to
do one-year deals as I evaluate my play year-to-year," Canada's
Sakic said.


"But I'm looking forward to next season and we feel very lucky to
be a part of such a great hockey market with such amazing fan
support."


A 1987 first-round pick of the Quebec Nordiques, Sakic moved with
the franchise in 1996 and has been the captain for 14 seasons. He
ranks ninth on the NHL all- time list for points (1,589), 11th in
assists (979) and 16th in goals (610).


"Joe is the heart of this organization and his leadership and
value to this team is unquestioned," Avalanche general manager
Francois Giguere said.  "He played some of his best hockey this
past season and was a major part of the late-season success we
enjoyed."


Only Steve Yzerman has a longer tenure with the same team (22
seasons) and only five other players have scored more points with
one organization (Wayne Gretzky, Mario Lemieux, Gordie Howe, Ray
Bourque and Yzerman).  Colorado has won two Stanley Cups with
Sakic as captain.


Sakic, 37, showed no signs of slowing down this season as he led
the team with 100 points (36 goals, 64 assists) while appearing
in all 82 games for the second straight season and sixth time in
his career.


The 12-time All-Star joined Gordie Howe as the only players in
NHL history to reach the 100-point plateau at the age of 37 or
older.


Despite finishing this season with 95 points, the Avalanche
(44-31-7) missed the playoffs for the first time since 1994, when
they were in Quebec.

