

Technical problems have delayed the presidential election count
in East Timor, except in the capital Dili where Nobel laureate
Jose Ramos-Horta leads on 30 percent, an official said Tuesday.


Ramos-Horta, East Timor's current prime minister, led in Dili
district with nearly 30 percent of the vote after Monday's poll,
said Martinho Gusmao, a spokesman for the national election
commission.


Some 108 out of 113 polling stations in the district had reported
a provisional result, he said.


Fernando "Lasama" de Araujo, a former political prisoner in
Indonesia and the chairman of the opposition Democratic Party,
was next on 25 percent, he added.


Ex-guerrilla and ruling Fretilin party candidate Francisco "Lu-
Olo" Guterres, and Fransisco Xavier do Amaral, the chairman of
the Timorese Social Democrat Association party, were behind the
first two, he said.


A candidate needs more than 50 percent of the vote nationwide to
become president. Analysts said it was unlikely any candidate
would achieve that in the first round, making a May 9 runoff
probable.


The technical problems had slowed the count everywhere except
Dili district, Gusmao said.


"They couldn't start the tabulation because of the question of
technical support like computers, printers and generators," he
said. "It has delayed the counting."


Overall results are due by later this week to select a successor
to the charismatic former guerrilla leader Xanana Gusmao, who is
not seeking re- election.


Monday's vote, hailed as peaceful and transparent, was the first
in East Timor since its independence in 2002 following a bloody
split from occupying Indonesia three years earlier.

