

Croat Ivo Karlovic continued his mastery over Benjamin Becker
with a 7-5, 7-6 (7/3) victory in the first round of the US Clay
Court Championship on Monday.


In their only other career meeting, Karlovic also registered a
straight sets win over sixth-seeded Becker in the semi-finals of
the recent San Jose tournament.


Americans Andy Roddick and James Blake will be hoping to avoid an
upset like Becker when they play their first matches.


Roddick and Blake helped the United States score an important
victory in the Davis Cup over the weekend.


The Americans highlight the 32-player draw at this week's 416,000
dollar event.


The world's third-ranked player, Roddick beat Fernando Verdasco
on Friday to kick off a dominant weekend for the United States,
which rolled past Spain to reach the Davis Cup semi-finals.


The top seed and a three-time winner in this event, Roddick takes
on Albert Montanes of Spain in the first round.


He was ousted in the quarter-finals here last year, falling in
three sets to German Tommy Haas.


Seeded second is Blake, who had struggled mightily before posting
a pair of victories over the Spaniards this past weekend. Since
reaching the final at Delray Beach, Blake is just 3-4 in ATP
play, including a disappointing second- round loss to Florent
Serra at Miami.


The world No. 9, Blake has failed to advance beyond the quarter-
finals in six career attempts. He fell to Antony Dupuis in the
first round here last year.


Haas is seeded third and looks for redemption from last year,
when he reached the semi-finals here before retiring in the first
set with a wrist injury. The German takes on American Sam Querrey
in this year's first round.


The Americans got off to a poor start as eighth seed Juan Monaco
of Argentina opened with a 7-5, 6-4 victory over US wild card
Jan-Michael Gambill in another first-round match.


Unseeded Romanian Victor Hanescu and Frenchman Nicolas Devilder
also won opening-round matches.

