

Palestinian militants planned to detonate an explosives-laden
truck in the heart of Tel Aviv on the eve of the Jewish Passover
holiday, Israel's Shin Beth internal security service said on
Tuesday.


A Palestinian driving a truck carrying about 100 kilograms (220
pounds) of explosives reached Tel Aviv about two weeks ago, but
then decided to turn back, it said in a statement.


Shortly afterwards, Israeli security services arrested 19 members
of a cell of Hamas's armed wing, the Ezzedine al-Qassam Brigades,
in the West Bank town of Qalqilya, from where the alleged bomber
was dispatched.


"During their interrogation it was revealed that the cell
intended to carry out several attacks, including a suicide
bombing using a truck loaded with about 100 kilos of explosives,"
the statement said.


The truck was destroyed when it accidentally blew up near
Qalqilya.


The bomber crossed from the West Bank into Israel using an
Israeli identity card which he received after marrying an Israeli
citizen, the Shin Beth said. His vehicle also had an Israeli
licence plate.


Although the Islamist movement -- the main party in a Palestinian
unity government -- has largely abided by a November ceasefire
agreement with Israel, its armed wing has been involved in a
growing number of attacks against Israeli targets in recent
weeks, including the shooting of a civilian along the Gaza Strip
border.


Israel regularly carries out arrest sweeps across the West Bank,
which is gradually being sealed off from Israel by its
controversial separation barrier.

