

Japan on Tuesday extended sanctions against North Korea until
October to keep the pressure on Pyongyang over its abductions of
Japanese nationals, officials said.


The move comes despite a flurry of diplomacy including a US
mission to Pyongyang in hopes of meeting Saturday's deadline in a
six-way deal for North Korea to freeze a key nuclear site in
exchange for fuel aid.


Japan has taken the hardest line at the six-nation talks and has
refused to fund the breakthrough US-backed deal, saying it will
not help North Korea until the kidnapping dispute is resolved.


"Sometimes we need appropriate pressure," Chief Cabinet Secretary
Yasuhisa Shiozaki told reporters.


"We want North Korea to recognise that it must have a forward-
looking response to the nuclear, abduction and other pending
issues," Shiozaki said.


In October last year, the Japanese government barred all imports
from North Korea -- including money-makers such as clams, crabs
and high-end matsutake mushrooms -- for six months.


The government has decided to extend the sanctions by another six
months, Shiozaki said.


"If they want to lift the sanctions, they must ... resolve the
kidnappings issue with concrete actions," Prime Minister Shinzo
Abe said last month.


Abe has built his career campaigning for North Korea to resolve
the dispute over its kidnappings of at least 13 Japanese in the
1970s and 1980s, who were abducted to help train North Korean
spies.


Pyongyang returned five victims and their families and says the
rest are dead, but Japan maintains that they are alive and kept
under wraps because they know too many secrets.

