

Troubled East Timor's first presidential election since
independence was free of major violence and saw a high turnout,
the head of the UN mission in the country said Tuesday.


"Voting in the presidential election proceeded without major
incidents of violence or intimidation, which is already a very
good result for Timor-Leste," Atul Khare said, referring to East
Timor by its formal name.


"I sincerely believe that the attitude of the voters was
positive, confident and excited," he said.


Technical problems delayed the count following Monday's vote for
the largely ceremonial post. Results are due this week and will
lead to a runoff if none of the eight candidates standing gets
more than 50 percent.


"The people of Timor-Leste seem to be embracing their own day at
these polls yesterday," Khare said.


The presidential poll was the first since East Timor's
independence in 2002.


The impoverished nation was occupied by Indonesia for 24 years
until a bloody split in 1999, when its people chose self-
determination in a referendum. Violence has pulsed through the
nation since then.


There were fears of unrest, allegations of voter intimidation and
a last-minute scramble for ballot papers during the vote.


Khare said the real challenge for the nation in many ways began
after the election and urged all the candidates, and their
supporters, to accept the results.


Any legitimate grievances should be pursued through the courts,
he said.


"Accepting the results includes accepting defeat and using the
defeat as an opportunity to form a strong opposition," he added.


The poll will select a successor to the charismatic former
guerrilla leader Xanana Gusmao, who took office in a pre-
independence vote.


Parliamentary elections are due later this year and Gusmao has
said he wants to become prime minister.

