

The husband of Philippines President Gloria Arroyo underwent
heart surgery and was recovering at a hospital here Tuesday, his
doctors said.


Jose Miguel Arroyo, a wealthy and famously overweight 60-year-old
lawyer, had emergency surgery to repair a leak in the main artery
and a triple bypass of another artery on Monday night, said his
doctor Juliet Cervantes of Saint Luke's Hospital.


He had been rushed to hospital a day earlier for suspected
chronic gastritis.


President Arroyo, also 60, cancelled her public appointments on
Monday to be at his bedside before and after the 10-hour surgery,
aides said.


Cervantes said the surgery was "uneventful" and that Arroyo was
recovering "faster than we thought."


She said the president's husband would be "monitored closely over
the next 48 hours, which is the most critical period in this kind
of surgery."


"We haven't fully assessed his neurological status. He was
sedated most of time, and still under the effects of anesthesia
but he showed remarkable improvement earlier than expected," she
said.


She expressed hope that this improvement would continue and that
he would not show any "neurological deficit" from the brief
period when the bloodflow to his brain stopped.


Cervantes said Arroyo's admission to the hospital was "a close
call," and that any further delay may have killed him. Tests
showed there was already a leak in his aorta and that a blood
clot had already been forming.


She warned that even after he recovers, the president's husband
will now have to follow a strict diet.


Gerry Pelayo, an Arroyo political ally, told reporters the
president had remained at her husband's side overnight, staying
in a hospital room while the surgery was carried out.


"The president is very tired but as a wife, she feels it is right
to be at the side of her husband," he said.

