

The dollar was easier in cautious Asian trade Tuesday as players
remained cautious ahead of Friday's gathering of Group of Seven
finance chiefs, dealers said.


They said the market largely ignored a decision by the Bank of
Japan to leave its benchmark interest rate on hold at 0.5
percent, which had been widely expected after the first drop in
domestic consumer prices for 10 months.


The dollar fell to 118.99 yen in Tokyo afternoon trade from
119.29 yen late Monday in New York.


The euro rose to 1.3417 dollars from 1.3354 and to 159.63 yen
after 159.33.


Dealers were looking ahead to a meeting in Washington of finance
ministers and central bankers from the Group of Seven (G7)
nations on Friday.


"The Europeans are still concerned about the strength of the euro
against the yen and we cannot rule out the possibility that the
EU members may speak out about it ahead of the G7 meeting," said
Hidenori Kato, head of foreign exchange sales and trading at
Societe Generale.


The G7 ministers opted for a relatively soft line on the sliding
Japanese yen at their February meeting in Germany despite
European concerns about the currency's weakness, which is hurting
eurozone exporters.


Japanese Finance Minister Koji Omi said Tuesday that the agenda
for this Friday's meeting in Washington had not yet been decided.


Omi said last week that the G7 ministers would discuss currencies
in general but would not focus in particular on the weakness of
the yen.


Market players will also be on the lookout for the minutes from
the March meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee on
Wednesday for clues on the direction of US monetary policy,
dealers said.


In US trade overnight, the dollar extended gains as players there
returned from a long Easter weekend, cheered by Friday's strong
US jobs data.


The government said 180,000 new jobs were created in March, much
more than anticipated, but many participants had been unable to
trade fully on the news with many financial markets shut on Good
Friday.


The dollar firmed to 1.5160 Singapore dollars from 1.5126 in late
Asian trade on Monday, to 33.069 Taiwan dollars from 33.042 and
to 47.972 Philippine pesos from 47.925.


It rose to 9,103 Indonesian rupiah from 9,101 and to 32.81 Thai
baht from 32.60 but fell to 932.45 South Korean won from 932.55.

