

Twenty percent of the areas devastated by last week's Solomon
Islands earthquake and tsunami have still not received any aid,
New Zealand Defence Minister Phil Goff said Tuesday.


"The estimate was that 80 percent of the communities have been
contacted and have been receiving relief supplies, and the other
20 percent they hope to get to over the next three days," Goff
said after a visit to the Solmons.


The relief effort has been criticised as too slow following last
Monday's 8.0-magnitude earthquake and subsequent tsunami, which
cut a swathe through isolated communities in the west of the
country.


Goff told Radio New Zealand the isolation of the area had been
difficult to overcome but said the operations he saw were running
quite smoothly.


"The impression given was certainly that the international effort
was meeting the scale of the disaster and was doing so reasonably
effectively, but there will be gaps and that's what they're
working on now," he said.


He said he was told by the Solomon Islands National Disaster
Management Committee that there was between 39 and 42 people so
far confirmed dead and another 24 people still missing.


The emphaisis of the aid operation would soon move to
reconstruction and rehabilitation, including counselling for
traumatised victims, he said.


Children had seen family members swept away and their homes
destroyed and they would need help from aid agencies such as Save
the Children and UNICEF.


Another obstacle to recovery was the reluctance of people in the
affected areas to return from hill camps to their lowland
villages because of a fear of another tsunami amid continuing
aftershocks.


"What the local aid agencies are going to have to do is to
encourage people to go back to their home areas because that's
where their livelihoods are -- their fishing, the coastal gardens
and so on," Goff said.

