

One of Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki's top advisers on
Monday called for a federal system in Iraq as a solution for
unrelenting violence in his war-torn country.


Ali Allawi, who was in Washington to promote the US publication
of his book, "The Occupation of Iraq: Winning the War, Losing the
Peace," said an international force would replace US troops to
stabilize a newly federalized Iraq.


"The present framework of the Iraqi state is inherently
unstable," said Allawi, a former finance, defense and trade
minister, who is the cousin of Iraq's former prime minister Ayad
Allawi.


"Decision making is paralyzed by power-sharing formulas," he said
in written remarks. "The machinery of the government itself is
too decrepit and corrupt to manage the country.


Allawi's book is highly critical of US missteps in Iraq since the
2003 invasion.


"The fiction that Iraq can be maintained in its present form
without prolonged violence and instability must be abandoned. A
regional solution may be the only possible answer."


Kurds and Shiites have been the main backers of a federalist
system in Iraq, whereby their largely autonomous regions in the
north and south would manage their own affairs while remaining
linked by a central government.


However, Sunni Arabs, who form around 20 percent of the
population and are largely located in central, resource-poor
parts of Iraq, have been less enthusiastic about such a plan for
fear it would deprive them of oil wealth.


The new regional governing authorities would have "wide powers"
and would need resources, while federal institutions would act as
"adjudicators between regions," Allawi argued.


"Security must be decentralized until such time as confidence
between the communities is reestablished," Allawi said, urging
that federalism be "underwritten by an international treaty."


"US troops would then be replaced by an international force to
stabilize the new federal system," he added.

