

Japanese share prices closed down 0.45 percent on Tuesday as
investors locked in gains a day after the market hit the highest
level for almost six weeks, dealers said.


They said that a decision by the Bank of Japan to leave its key
interest rate unchanged at 0.5 percent had been widely expected
and made little impact on the market.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
fell 79.07 points to finish at 17,664.69.


The broader TOPIX index of all first-section issues declined 2.41
points or 0.14 percent to 1,735.69.


Decliners outpaced gainers 1,054 to 543, with 130 issues flat.


Volume rose to 1.99 million shares from 1.91 million on Monday.


Investors locked in Monday's gains following a flat performance
on Wall Street, dealers said.


"The market here fell on profit-taking, following the mixed
performance on Wall Street after its holiday," said Hideo
Mizutani, chief strategist at Sieg Securities.


"Also, the market was generally cautious and investors were
hesitant to take large positions ahead of the earnings seasons in
Japan and the US," Mizutani said.


But investors showed appetite for steel and non-ferrous metals
stocks after a rise in prices of metals such as copper, dealers
said.


Nippon Steel rose 22 yen or 2.8 percent to 806, Sumitomo Metal
Industries gained nine yen or 1.6 percent to 580 and JFE Holdings
was 200 yen or 3.1 percent higher at 6,650.


Among non-ferrous metals stocks, Mitsubishi Materials advanced 18
yen or 3.3 percent to 567, Sumitomo Metal Mining rose 50 yen or
2.3 percent to 2,225 and Dowa Holdings gained 25 yen or 2.1
percent to 1,218.


Among electronic makers, Hitachi was down three yen or 0.3
percent at 937, NEC Corp slipped five yen or 0.7 percent to 665,
Matsushita Electric Industrial declined 40 yen or 1.6 percent to
2,445 and Sony shed 30 yen or 0.5 percent to 6,410.


Pentax fell 31 yen or 3.9 percent to 769 after the camera
manufacturer said it would cancel a plan to merge with Hoya amid
resitance from shareholders, but would continue to look at some
form of tieup with the glass maker.


Hoya was down 50 yen or 1.2 percent at 4,090.


On the foreign exchange market, the dollar fell to 118.99 yen in
Tokyo afternoon trade from 119.29 yen late Monday in New York.


The euro rose to 1.3417 dollars from 1.3354 and to 159.63 yen
after 159.33.

