

Nobel laureate Jose Ramos-Horta leads in East Timor's
presidential election with about 20 percent of votes counted, and
there will probably be a runoff, an election official said.


Fernando "Lasama" de Araujo, a former political prisoner in
Indonesia and the chairman of the opposition Democratic Party,
was close behind in second place, said Martinho Gusmao, a
spokesman for the national election commission.


Ex-guerrilla and ruling Fretilin party candidate Francisco "Lu-
Olo" Guterres was third in the provisional, partial count
following Monday's election, Gusmao said.


"Perhaps no candidate will get 50 percent," the official said.


A candidate needs more than 50 percent to win or there will be
runoff in early May.


The commission did not say what percentage of the vote Ramos-
Horta, East Timor's current prime minister, or the other
candidates had in the partial count.


But the premier was leading on nearly 30 percent of the vote in
the capital Dili and its surrounding district with a provisional
count in the area almost complete.


Lasama was second in Dili district on 25 percent, followed by Lu-
Olo.


Observers had forecast a three-way race between the men for the
largely ceremonial presidency, although many expected Lu-Olo and
the powerful Fretilin party to pose the biggest challenge to
Ramos-Horta.


Technical problems have delayed the count in most of the country.


"They couldn't start the tabulation because of the question of
technical support like computers, printers and generators,"
Gusmao said.


Overall results are due this week to select a successor to the
charismatic former guerrilla leader Xanana Gusmao, who is not
seeking re-election.


Monday's vote, hailed as peaceful and transparent, came after a
year of bloody upheaval in East Timor.


It was the first presidential poll in the country since its
independence in 2002 following a bloody split from occupying
Indonesia three years earlier.

