

A Haitian program aimed at convincing gang members to give up
their weapons has achieved minimal results and critics say
hundreds of thousands of illegal arms still circulate in the
streets.


In the past three months, more than 200 submachine guns and
assault rifles as well as more than 6,000 rounds have been handed
in to authorities, Alix Fils- Aime, who heads a government
commission on disarmament, told AFP.


Also, as part of a major UN-government crackdown aimed at ridding
the harshest streets of gang violence, UN soldiers have arrested
around 400 armed gang members and confiscated dozens of their
weapons.


But according to an investigation made public by a Swiss non-
governmental group in 2005, as many as 250,000 illegal arms are
held in Haiti, making violent crime increasingly difficult to
conquer.


Fils-Aime admitted it is tough to convince gangland kingpins to
give up their handguns, or even private citizens to turn over
guns they keep at home for their own security.


"It would be necessary and encouraging for all sectors to
participate," he said.


More than 300 gang members, most from the gang-stronghold area of
Cite Soleil, have signed up for the disarmament, demobilization
and reintegration program, though it has drawn criticism from
rights groups.


Most of the "demobilized" are under 23 years of age. If they are
not wanted by authorities, they receive an allowance in exchange
for joining a reintegration program and can get professional
training and psychological consults.


Pierre Esperance of the Haitian Coalition for Human Rights said
that many who take part in the program keep up with their
criminal activities on the side.


"The program is ineffective because it is not done transparently,
and can encourage impunity," he said.


But Fils-Aime said those who oppose the program should instead
get behind it.


"Where would they rather see these people?" he asked. "In school
or in the fields with their guns?"

