

US envoy Christopher Hill said Tuesday it was becoming difficult
to meet the "precise deadline" this week for North Korea to shut
down a nuclear site as part of an aid for disarmament deal.


North Korea has refused to budge until it receives funds that had
been frozen in a Macau bank due to US sanctions.


"Obviously every day this banking matter holds us up, and it
makes it more difficult to meet the precise deadline," Hill told
reporters in Tokyo.


North Korea pledged in a six-nation deal in February to shut down
its key Yongbyon nuclear facility and allow the return of UN
nuclear inspectors by April 14 in return for badly needed fuel
aid.


The United States has agreed to unblock the 25 million dollars at
Macau's Banco Delta Asia which were blacklisted amid allegations
that North Korea was engaged in money-laundering and
counterfeiting.


But US authorities have struggled to find a way to get the cash
through the banking system back to Pyongyang.


"We're working very hard, over this weekend and these two days,
to try to finalise this matter of Macau, which frankly has held
up the implementation of the first set of obligations," Hill
said.


Responding to reported remarks by his North Korean counterpart
Kim Kye-Gwan that it would be difficult to meet the deadline,
Hill said, "I understand why he's saying difficult. Every single
thing we've done in the six-party process can be described as
difficult."


Hill said he had no plans to meet with Kim later this week when
he heads on to Beijing after a stop in Seoul.

