

China hit back on Tuesday at the US decision to file a WTO
complaint against it for copyright abuse, warning the move was
ill-informed and would damage trade relations between the two
countries.


"China feels regret and is strongly dissatisfied (with the US
decision)," commerce ministry spokesman Wang Xinpei said in a
statement.


"The move will seriously damage cooperation (on intellectual
property rights protection) that the two parties have already
built up and will have a negative impact on trade relations
between the two sides."


The United States announced on Monday it would file a case at the
World Trade Organisation over widespread copyright piracy in
China, a practice which US companies say deprives them of
billions of dollars each year.


Washington also said it would lodge another complaint at the WTO
accusing China of restricting distribution of foreign music,
films and books.


"Piracy and counterfeiting levels in China remain unacceptably
high," US Trade Representative Susan Schwab told a news
conference in Washington, brandishing a fake Chinese DVD of the
Ben Stiller hit "Night at the Museum."


In a further Chinese reaction to the announcement, China's top
copyright official said the United States did not understand the
huge efforts Beijing had undertaken to combat the problem.


"It's not a sensible move for the US government to file such a
complaint," the state-run Xinhua news agency quoted Intellectual
Property Office commissioner Tian Lipu, as saying.


"By doing so, the United States has ignored the Chinese
government's immense efforts and great achievements in
strengthening IPR protection and tightening enforcement of its
copyright laws."

