

A 51-year-old woman fainted and died in a crush in southern
Thailand as thousands of people scrambled to order amulets with
purportedly magical powers, police said Tuesday.


About 60,000 people have poured into the town of Nakhon Sri
Thammarat since before dawn Sunday to try to place an order for
amulets whose supposed powers have received front-page news
coverage for weeks.


The woman, who suffered from high blood pressure, died in the
middle of the crowd under the stifling summer heat, police
colonel Yanapat Norasing said.


"When she fainted, it was difficult for emergency workers to get
through the crowd to rescue her," he said.


Six other women fainted, but Yanapat said no one else was
injured.


Thai media reported that dozens were injured in a stampede at a
technical college where 10,000 people were waiting to place
orders for the amulets, which are believed to guarantee wealth
for the holder.


Yanapat said the crowd turned chaotic amid fears there would not
be enough amulets to go around, but that the woman had not been
crushed by the mob.


The Jatukamramatep talisman has become a hot commodity in
Thailand, where people believe its different versions have powers
to protect from harm or to bring great riches.


To cope with the enormous demand, the Buddhist temple which
produces them has set up booking centres where believers can
place advance orders.


The amulets cost only 100 baht (three dollars) at the temple, but
demand is so great that they can be resold in Bangkok for up to
7,000 baht.


It was created by a policeman who died at age 108, and who was
believed to have mastered magical powers that protected him from
attacks throughout his life.


Magazines and newspapers have for weeks splashed the amulets
across their front pages, fueling the mania. Although they are
not mentioned in Buddhist doctrine, many Thais believe firmly in
their powers.

