

Planting new trees in snow-covered northern regions may actually
contribute to global warming as they have the counter-effect of
tropical forests, according to a study out Monday.


While rainforests help cool the planet by absorbing carbon
dioxide and producing clouds that reflect sunlight, the dark
canopy of Canadian, Scandinavian and Siberian forests catches
sunrays that would be reflected back to space by the snow, the
study said.


The study, published Monday in the online edition of the
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, found that
reforestation projects in the tropics would help mitigate global
warming, but such projects would be "counterproductive" in high
latitudes.


In mid-latitude locations like the United States and most of
Europe, more trees would only create marginal benefits for
climate change, the researchers said.


"Our study shows that only tropical rainforests are strongly
beneficial in helping slow down global warming," Govindasamy
Bala, who led the research, said in a statement.


"It is a win-win situation in the tropics because trees in the
tropics, in addition to absorbing carbon dioxide, promote
convective clouds that help to cool the planet," he said.


"In other locations, the warming from the albedo effect (sunlight
absorption) either cancels or exceeds the net cooling from the
other two effects," said Bala, an atmospheric scientist at the
Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory.


Researchers used a three-dimensional computer simulation to study
the effects of large-scale deforestation and look at the positive
and negative effects of tree cover at different latitudes.


"When it comes to rehabilitating forests to fight global warming,
carbon dioxide might be only half of the story; we also have to
account for whether they help to reflect sunlight by producing
clouds, or help to absorb it by shading snowy tundra," said study
co-author Ken Caldeira.


By 2100, forests in temperate and northern countries will make
some places 10 degrees Farhenheit warmer that if the trees had
not been there, the study said.


However, the authors did not endorse slashing down boreal forests
as a measure against global warming.


"Preservation of ecosystems is a primary goal of preventing
global warming, and the destruction of ecosystems to prevent
global warming would be a counterproductive and perverse
strategy," said Caldeira.


"In planning responses to global challenges, it is important to
pursue broad goals and avoid narrow criteria that may lead to
environmentally harmful consequences," said Caldeira, of the
Carnegie Institution.


Bala added: "Forests provide natural habitat to plants and
animals, preserve the biodiversity, produce economically valuable
timber and firewood, protect watersheds and indirectly prevent
ocean acidification."


Researchers from Stanford University in California and Universite
Montpellier II in France contribute to the study.

