

Australian share prices rose 1.25 percent to another record high
Tuesday with investors buoyed by merger and acquisition activity
as a rival bidder appeared for retailer Coles, dealers said.


Firmer metals prices boosted the resource sector again while
takeover leads -- on retail giant Coles and construction
materials firm Rinker Group -- drove the broader market.


The benchmark SP/ASX 200 closed up 75.9 points at a record
6,153.0, beating last Wednesday's previous high of 6,097.2.


The broader All Ordinaries index rose 72.1 points to a record
6,136.1, also surpassing Wednesday's record of 6,079.0.


Turnover was 1.82 billion shares worth 5.75 billion dollars (4.6
bilion US), with rises outnumbering falls 800 to 490 and 338
stocks unchanged.


Coles ended the day up 0.36 dollars at a record 17.33, with the
intraday high of 17.42 also an all-time best, after a private
equity consortium led by US player Kohlberg Kravis Roberts (KKR)
said it was preparing to trump a 19.7 billion dollar (16.1
billion US) offer by local conglomerate Wesfarmers.


Investors are banking on a bidding war for Coles, with the
nation's largest retailer Woolworths and UK supermarket giant
Tesco reportedly also interested in acquiring at least some of
Coles' businesses.


Woolworths advanced 0.34 to 27.98 and Wesfarmers added 0.02 to
39.14.


US-focused building products group Rinker climbed 0.33 to 18.81
after its board agreed to a revised 15.85 US dollars per share
takeover offer from Mexican cement group Cemex SA for a total of
15.3 billion US dollars.


Rinker had earlier rejected a 13 US dollar offer as too low.


Bell Potters Securities private client advisor Stuart Smith said
the takeover lead gave another push to a market that had been
reassured by Friday's strong US employment report.


"I would say where going to see more of the same buying over the
week ahead. I am supremely confident," Smith said.


In the resources sector, global mining giant BHP Billiton rose
0.15 to 30.48 dollars and Rio Tinto gained 1.45 to 81.78.


National Australia Bank rose 74 cents to 41.99 dollars, Westpac
added 26 cents to 26.40, Commonwealth Bank rose 16 cents at
51.29, and ANZ lifted 42 cents to 29.97.


Gloucester Coal jumped 1.04 or 27.3 percent to 4.85 after
accepting a bid from Xstrata Coal, a subsidiary of Anglo-Swiss
mining giant Xstrata PLC.

