

Australia is to deploy a new task force of 300 special forces
soldiers to Afghanistan to help counter an expected Taliban
offensive, Prime Minister John Howard announced Tuesday.


He said Australia's total military deployment in the troubled
nation would reach about 950 troops by the middle of this year
and peak at around 1,000 in the middle of 2008.


Howard told a news conference the increase in numbers could mean
Australian casualties. "There is the distinct possibility of
casualties, and that should be understood and prepared for by the
Australian public."


Australia already has some 550 soldiers in Afghanistan, including
about 370 with a reconstruction task force.


Howard said the special forces troops would be sent to Oruzgan
Province in south-central Afghanistan where a 200-member special
forces task group operated for a year before being pulled out
last September.


"Their role will be to enhance provincial security by disrupting
Taliban command and control supply routes and they will directly
support the Australian reconstruction task force," he said.


Howard said he had discussed the plan with Afghan President Hamid
Karzai and US commanders during a recent visit to Afghanistan.


"It is a very crucial phase in the modern history of
Afghanistan," he said, noting renewed activity by supporters of
the Taliban regime ousted by the US-led invasion in late 2001.


The invasion followed the Al-Qaeda attacks on New York and
Washington on September 11 that year, and Howard said "the
possibility of Afghanistan again becoming a bolthole for
terrorists is quite real."


Asked whether coalition forces were losing the war in
Afghanistan, Howard replied: "We are not losing the war but we
will not win it without renewed and increased effort and that is
why we are playing our part."

