

US buyout company Carlyle and entrepreneur Ramesh Vangal have
teamed up to bid 170 million dollars to buy a 42-percent stake in
Cambridge Solutions, a business outsourcing firm, the Economic
Times reported Tuesday.


Vangal has an 18-percent stake in Cambridge Solutions, and
together he and Carlyle will control 60 percent of the company
valued at about 250 million dollars, the daily said, citing
sources it didn't identify.


The proposed purchase will be the biggest deal in India's
business processing outsourcing industry since buyout firms Oak
Hill and General Atlantic acquired 60 percent of Genpact, a
former unit of US giant General Electric, for 500 million dollars
in 2004.


Such firms typically handle third-party transactions and run
internal systems for several customer-companies such as banks or
insurers trying to save on costs.


Cambridge Solutions does not comment on "speculative media
reports," a company spokeswoman told AFP.


Mumbai-based Rajeev Gupta, who heads Carlyle India's buyout team,
was busy in a meeting and not available to comment, his office
said.


Vangal, an Indian whose business interests include technology,
healthcare, agrosciences and alcoholic beverages, cannot be
reached to comment, said a person who answered the phone at his
Katra Group offices in Bangalore.


The Econimic times said the deal was likely to be announced in
the "next few weeks."


Stakeholders exiting Cambridge Solutions include Rajat Gupta,
former head of consultancy McKinsey, former Pepsico chairman
Chris Sinclair, and the Bronfman family of Canada, the newspaper
said in the report from Bangalore.


Cambridge Solutions derives a substantial part of its 12 billion
rupees in annual revenue from processing claims for insurers, and
Carlyle has a "rather large exposure" to the insurance industry,
said the report.


That makes for an ideal match between the companies, it added.

