

A courtyard home in Beijing has sold for a record 110 million
yuan (14.2 million dollars), reflecting the sky-rocketing real
estate prices in China's capital, state media reported Tuesday.


The house, near the picturesque Houhai lake in downtown Beijing,
was sold for 36,324 yuan per square metre, almost double the
average price of residential properties nearby, the Beijing News
said.


A local property developer had been trying to sell the courtyard
home since late 2005 after fixing it up as part of a broader
development project but few people expressed interest until early
this year, it said.


The report gave no details as to who bought the property or the
exact date of the sale, saying only the transaction occurred
recently.


A courtyard dwelling, or Siheyuan in Chinese, literally means an
enclosed quadrangle area.


It is a type of residence most famously found in Beijing.
Throughout Chinese history, the composition was the basic pattern
used for residences, palaces, temples and government offices.


While many are being destroyed in Beijing to make way for
skyrises and other big developments, some pockets of courtyards
such as the one around Houhai are being converted into luxury
residences.


Real estate prices in China have risen dramatically in recent
years, particularly in Beijing and the nation's more developed
eastern cities, raising concerns within the central government
about a potential property bubble.


Despite interest rate rises, new taxes and other measures to curb
the real estate boom, property prices in Beijing were 8.8 percent
higher in February from a year earlier, according to official
figures.


The increase in Beijing compared with an average rise of 5.3
percent for the same period across 70 Chinese cities.

