

Japanese share prices dropped 0.58 percent in morning trade
Tuesday as investors pocketed gains a day after the market hit
the highest level for almost six weeks, dealers said.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
fell 103.10 points to 17,640.66 by lunch.


The broader TOPIX index of all first-section issues shed 7.32
points or 0.42 percent to 1,730.78.


Decliners beat gainers 1,108 to 477, with 136 stocks flat.


Volume was 998 million shares, down from 898 million shares
Monday morning.


Investors locked in Monday's gains following a flat performance
on Wall Street, dealers said.


"The market here fell on profit-taking, following the mixed
performance on Wall Street after its holiday," said Hideo
Mizutani, chief strategist at Sieg Securities.


"Also, the market was generally cautious and investors were
hesitant to take large positions ahead of the earnings seasons in
Japan and the US," Mizutani said.


Investors were also waiting for the outcome of the two-day
meeting of the Bank of Japan's policy board although the market
expects the central bank to leave its overnight call rate target
unchanged at 0.5 percent.


Among auto makers, Nissan Motor fell 16 yen or 1.2 percent to
1,276 yen while Toyota Motor lost 120 yen or 1.6 percent at 7,420
yen as Honda Motor declined 90 yen or 2.1 percent to 4,100 yen.


Electronics stocks were lower. Advantest fell 120 yen or 2.1
percent to 5,630 yen as Elpida Memory lost 120 yen or 2.3 percent
at 4,980 yen with NEC Electronics down 50 yen or 1.6 percent at
3,040 yen.


Investors showed some appetite for steel and non-ferrous metals
stocks after a rise in prices of metals such as copper.


Among steel stocks, Nippon Steel was up 24 yen or 3.1 percent at
808 yen as Sumitomo Metal Industries gained 13 yen or 2.3 percent
at 584

