

China's growing band of young Internet gamers will face virtual
penalties if they stay online for more than three hours, under a
new set of rules to combat cyber addiction published on Tuesday.


Chinese authorities have voiced increasing concern in recent
months about the number of teenagers who spend hours and
sometimes days in Internet cafes playing games.


In the latest measure to combat the problem, eight government
departments have issued new rules that will force Internet gaming
companies and operators to install and run "anti-addiction"
software, the China Daily reported.


Gamers under the age of 18 will receive full points in their
online world only for the first three hours of play, which the
government has deemed as the limit for the "healthy" amount of
time to be glued to the Internet.


If young gamers choose to stay on-line, they will get half the
normal points for the next two hours. Any gaming after five hours
of play will not recoup any points.


The official Xinhua news agency said that most online games
encouraged players to play longer by rewarding them with more
credits and virtual goods.


"The system will only target minors who lack the self-discipline
to control their playing time," Xinhua quoted Kou Xiaowei, an
official with the State Press and Publication Administration, as
saying.


The new rules will come into force on April 15, with games to be
closed down from July 16 if they are not installed with the anti-
addiction software, according to the China Daily.


Under the new rules, all gamers will have to register with their
identity cards to prove their age. If they are aged over 18, they
can play for as long as they like.


China has about 137 million online users, according to the latest
official statistics. Of those, 31 million are Internet gamers.

