

Wall Street shares closed mixed Monday with blue-chip issues
buoyed by an upbeat survey of the US jobs market late last week
and by lower crude oil prices, traders said.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed up a slight 8.94 points
(0.07 percent) at 12,569.14, while the Nasdaq composite finished
down 2.16 points (0.09 percent) at 2,469.18.


The Standard and Poor's 500 broad-market index ended up a scant
0.85 points (0.06 percent) at 1,444.61.


"The Dow managed only a small gain today in quiet volume, even
though takeover speculation heated up and oil prices fell by
nearly three dollars per barrel. An economic report released on
Friday was also welcomed on Wall Street," said Al Goldman, a
chief market strategist at A.G. Edwards.


The Dow was helped by Friday's government report that showed
180,000 new jobs were created in March, much more than
anticipated, but investors had been unable to trade on the news
with markets shut on Good Friday.


The job report, which also showed the unemployment rate ticked
down to 4.4 percent last month, fed hopes the economy would stave
off a serious downturn amid a housing-led slowdown.


Blue-chip shares were also supported as New York oil prices
weakened by almost three dollars to 61.51 dollars a barrel
despite lingering geopolitical angst over Iran's nuclear
ambitions.


Analysts said investors were preparing for the first-quarter
earnings season, which kicks off in earnest this week with some
market-watchers predicting a robust performance from corporate
America.


Apple's Nasdaq-listed stock closed down 1.03 dollars at 93.65
dollars after it said it had now sold 100 million iPods,
describing the iconic device as the fastest-selling music player
ever.


Since the first iPod was sold in November 2001, the US company
has introduced over 10 models including the matchbook-size iPod
shuffle which hit stores in November. Current models sell for
between 79 and 249 dollars.


The pocket-sized music players, some of which can hold thousands
of songs and photos as well as playing movies, have helped turn
around Apple's financial fortunes.


US banking behemoth Citigroup was also in focus after its
Citibank unit was confirmed as a bidder for Taiwan's Bank of
Overseas Chinese (BOOC) in a potential 426 million dollar deal.


Citibank will acquire all 1.194 billion outstanding shares in
BOOC at over 11 dollars per share through its subsidiary Citibank
Overseas Investment Corp, BOOC said in a regulatory filing.


Citigroup's shares finished up one cent at 51.58 dollars.
Elsewhere in the financial sector, Bank of America's stock also
ended up one cent at 50.86 dollars while JPMorganChase was 23
cents higher at 49.00 dollars.


Bond prices fell. The yield on the 10-year US Treasury bond rose
to 4.745 percent from 4.674 percent Thursday and that on the
30-year bond increased to 4.916 percent against 4.868 percent.
Bond yields and prices move in opposite directions.


European markets were shut for the Easter Monday holiday.

