

Thailand on Tuesday said it would again petition the website
YouTube to remove video clips deemed insulting to the king, as
the number of videos mocking the revered monarch soared.


The army-backed Thai government last week blocked the popular
video-sharing website after a clip appeared showing images of
King Bhumibol Adulyadej defaced by crude graffiti.


The original clip has since been removed, but Thailand's decision
to censor the website seems to have spurred YouTube users
worldwide to create their own videos mocking the king, with
dozens currently posted on the site.


Communications Minister Sitthichai Pookaiyaudoom said the
government would send a letter to YouTube's parent company Google
on Tuesday explaining why the clips were offensive to the king.


"(We will explain that) our king is above politics, and this is
the reason that we blocked the website because it can anger
Thais," Sitthichai told reporters before the weekly cabinet
meeting.


"Thai people worship the king, but foreigners could not
understand this sentiment, so we have to explain. We will
continue blocking YouTube until everything is corrected and all
clips are deleted," he said.


He repeated claims made Monday that Google was ignoring
Thailand's pleas because it was a small country, and accused the
US-based company of hypocrisy because it had agreed to censor its
search engine in China.


Local newspapers on Tuesday lambasted the government's handling
of the YouTube controversy.


"Authorities have escalated a hateful, homemade graffito into an
international affair," the English-language Bangkok Post said in
an editorial.


"The more that (Sitthichai) publicly lashes YouTube and its users
for posting attacks on the monarchy, the more such attacks will
appear in myriad places," it added.


Media rights watchdogs have expressed concern about an escalating
clampdown on free speech since a military coup here last
September, with a number of political websites blocked since the
putsch.

