

Europe's main stock markets mostly rose in morning trade Monday,
boosted by takeover news in the telecoms sector, dealers said.


As the second quarter began, London's FTSE 100 index of leading
shares climbed 0.32 percent to 6,328.30 points and Frankfurt's
DAX 30 won 0.26 percent to 6,934.64 points.


In Paris the CAC 40 dipped 0.04 percent to 5,631.54 points.


The DJ Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone blue chip shares increased
0.15 percent to 4,187.21 points.


The euro stood at 1.3354 dollars.


Europe's leading stock markets had endured a turbulent first
quarter, posting sharp losses at times in the wake of a heavy
correction for Asian equities and owing to concerns about a
slower US economy.


Shares in Telecom Italia and its principle shareholder Pirelli
shot up on news of a bid from the US telecommunications operator
ATT and Mexican counterpart America Movil.


Pirelli shares gained 11.12 percent to 0.92 euros and Telecom
Italia surged 11.48 percent to 2.38 euros in a market that had
gained 0.33 percent overall.


ATT, America Movil and Pirelli are in exclusive talks for the
purchase of two thirds of the Italian group's shareholding in
Telecom Italia, Pirelli said.


A deal would be worth 2.7 billion euros (3.6 billion euros) to
the Italian tyre, cable and real estate group, but it quickly
sparked opposition among some Italian politicians.


Other telecoms benefited, with BT Group up 2.06 percent to 310
pence in London, France Telecom rising 3.14 percent to 20.39
euros in Paris, and Deutsche Telekom 2.75-percent higher at 12.72
euros in Frankfurt.


In earlier Asia trade, Tokyo's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
closed down 1.50 percent to 17,028.41 points, as investors
remained nervous about the outlook for the US economy, dealers
said.


Hong Kong's key Hang Seng Index ended flat at 19,809.70.


Wall Street had wobbled Friday to a mixed finish as better-than-
expected economic data was offset by worries that US trade
sanctions slapped on China might spark growing protectionism.


Trading was volatile as investors made portfolio adjustments on
the final trading day of the first quarter, and renewed fears
about inflation dampened enthusiasm from robust economic reports.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 0.05 percent to 12,354.35
points, after zig-zagging for most of the session.


The tech-heavy Nasdaq composite gained 0.16 percent to 2,421.46
points and the broad-market Standard and Poor's 500 index shed
0.12 percent to close at 1,420.86.

