

British finance minister Gordon Brown, widely expected to become
prime minister, faced strong criticism Monday over pensions
reforms he introduced after his Labour party's election landslide
a decade ago.


In 1997 Chancellor of the Exchequer Brown, favourite to succeed
Prime Minister Tony Blair when he steps down later this year,
removed the so-called pensions tax credit -- a benefit allowing
pensioners to reduce their tax.


According to documents revealed last Friday, officials at Brown's
Treasury department had warned that the move announced in his
maiden annual budget would wipe billions of pounds (euros,
dollars) from British workers' pension funds.


"It is obvious that ... it had been a very bad decision. His
judgment was wrong," former chancellor of the exchequer Kenneth
Clarke told BBC radio on Monday.


He added: "You still have to look at the downside which is you
are going to take several billion pounds out of pension funds
which is what Gordon was after.


"This is one of the worst decisions that Gordon Brown made and it
has done a lot of damage to pensioners, not just their pension
funds," added Clarke, who was chancellor between 1993 and 1997
when the opposition Conservative party held power.


Brown was also under fire from employers' body the Confederation
of British Industry (CBI).


The chancellor's decision to remove pensions tax credits was a
"misjudgement," according to CBI director-general Richard
Lambert, who was quoted in the Financial Times newspaper on
Tuesday.


The scrapping of pension tax relief in 1997 had made "a
significant contribution to the weakening of the country's
occupational pensions platform," Lambert was quoted as saying.


"There was a misjudgement by the chancellor," he added.


However, over the weekend, senior government ministers had
defended Brown and claimed that the CBI had backed the move.

