

Malaysia's ruling National Front coalition Monday announced its
candidate for a key by-election in western Malacca state seen as
a barometer of support for the government.


Deputy Prime Minister Najib Razak said Lai Meng Chong, 56, will
be the coalition's candidate for the April 12 state election in
Machap, which takes place amid speculation of an early general
election.


"I am confident that based on his good track record, the
candidate we've chosen would be able to fulfil the aspirations of
the voters here," Najib was quoted as saying by the state Bernama
news agency.


The by-election will see Lai, a member of the Malaysian Chinese
Association (MCA) party which is part of the ruling coalition,
pitted against a candidate from the opposition Democratic Action
party (DAP).


DAP chair and parliamentary opposition leader Lim Kit Siang
admitted it would be difficult for his party to win in a rural
constituency where the National Front is strong.


"It's a rural constituency ... nonetheless, it will give a
certain indication of the general feeling on the performance of
Pak Lah," Lim told AFP, referring to premier Abdullah Ahmad
Badawi by his popular name.


The DAP lost out to the National Front or Barisan Nasional by
over 4,500 votes when the seat was contested in the 2004 state
election, and Lim said the party was simply aiming to reduce the
coalition's margin of victory.


"If we can slash their winning majority to 2,500 or even below
2,000, I think there will be great despondency and depression in
Barisan Nasional and MCA will be regarded as a big flop," Lim
said.


"It would show that the country is ready for a major change. It's
an indication of the next general elections," he added.


Malaysia must hold polls by 2009 but opposition parties have said
they expect Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi to call an early
vote before public frustration over his administration deepens.

