

The leaders of Eritrea and Uganda held talks Monday on the grim
situation in Somalia, where troops from Eritrean arch foe
Ethiopia are shoring up the government and Ugandan soldiers are
deployed as peacekeepers.


Eritrean President Issaias Afeworki and his Ugandan counterpart
Yoweri Museveni held their summit meeting in the Eritrean port of
Massawa.


According to the Eritrean Information Ministry, both leaders were
looking to take "practical steps" to restore calm in conflict-
torn Mogadishu, where violence in the past four days has left
scores dead and forced thousands to flee.


Eritrea has advised Uganda to pull its 1,500 peacekeeping forces
out of Somalia, the first part of a planned African Union
deployment of 8,000, and warned of "dire consequences" if they
remain there.


A first Ugandan soldier was killed and five others wounded in
Mogadishu on Saturday, sharply raising the stakes on the risky
peacekeeping mission.


The African Union deployment aims to allow the withdrawal of
Ethiopian troops who helped the transitional Somali government
drive Islamist fighters from the south and central parts of the
country.


But more Ethiopian troops arrived in Mogadishu on Monday to help
battle Islamist insurgents and clan leaders.


Eritrea has warned the continued presence of Ethiopian troops
would worsen the situation in the country, but Addis Ababa has
justified its intervention, saying the Islamists, some of whom
are accused of Al-Qaeda links, posed a threat after they declared
a holy war against Ethiopia.


Analysts have expressed fears that Ethiopia and Eritrea, still at
odds over their unresolved 1998-2000 border conflict, may fight a
proxy war in Somalia.

