

Chinese share prices closed 2.15 percent higher, extending recent
gains as financials and steelmakers led another record breaking
performance, dealers said.


They said investors found support on expectations for solid
corporate earnings after China's largest steelmakers, Baosteel,
reported a three percent increase in 2006 net profit.


Anticipation over the planned launch of futures contracts also
continued to drive China's blue chip stocks after authorities
issued draft rules that will allow market players a new financial
tool to hedge and exploit risk.


The latest gains, made only a month after a one-day crash in
Shanghai sparked a global equity rout, bring gains in the markets
to more than 170 percent since January 2006 as more and more
investors buy in.


The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index, which covers both A- and
B-shares listed on the Shanghai Stock Exchange, jumped 68.61
points to 3,252.60 points, a new high. Turnover rose to 93.30
billion yuan (12 billion dollars).


The Shanghai A-share Index was up 72.38 points or 2.16 percent to
3,418.73 on turnover of 92.97 billion yuan and the Shenzhen
A-share Index added 20.10 points or 2.33 percent at 881.88,
another record, on turnover of 46.70 billion yuan.


"Investors are confident about the first quarter earnings of
listed companies, which are expected to see average growth of at
least 30 percent year-on-year," said Wang Jun, an analyst at
China Merchants Securities.


The view was supported by a regulatory report that said China's
425 key state- owned enterprises posted a combined profit of
158.27 billion yuan in the first two months, up 39 percent year-
on-year.


Xu Ming, an analyst at Shiji Investment, said stocks continued to
find support on the upcoming launch of futures trading, a key
tool used in most developed markets to leverage and hedge
investor positions.


"Heavyweight blue chips continued to see strong buying before the
launch of index futures and the market is likely to maintain its
strength in the short run," said Xu.


Steel companies, heavily weighted in the indices, were boosted by
Baosteel's results, which pushed the stock up 0.42 yuan or 4.24
percent at 10.32


Angang New Steel gained 1.02 yuan or 7.0 percent to 15.59 while
Wuhan Steel Processing jumped 0.62 yuan or 6.83 percent to 9.70.


In the financials, CITIC Securities put on 3.17 yuan or 7.37
percent to 46.20 and Hong Yuan Securities rose 1.22 yuan or 5.58
percent to 23.10.


Datang International Power Generation jumped its 10 percent daily
limit to 13.54 yuan after its 2006 results.


Selected retailers were under pressure from profit-taking with
Chongqing Department Store down 0.50 yuan or 2.50 percent at
19.51.


Paper stocks saw a mixed performance after the US imposed last
Friday penalty tariffs ranging from 10.9 percent to 20.4 percent
on imports of glossy paper from China.


Yanbian Shixian Bailu Papermaking was down 0.07 yuan or 0.90
percent at 7.73 while Mudanjiang Hengfeng Paper was up 0.34 yuan
or 3.62 percent at 9.72.


The Shanghai B-share Index rose 1.71 points at 179.51 on turnover
of 326.25 million dollars and the Shenzhen B-share Index added
4.95 points at 528.92 on turnover of 525.69 million Hong Kong
dollars (67 million dollars).

