

The Palestinian government must make "more gestures," including
freeing a French-Israeli soldier captured in the Gaza Strip,
before the international community can resume aid, France's
foreign minister said Monday.


Philippe Douste-Blazy made his comments after meeting with his
Palestinian counterpart Ziad Abu Amr, who is in Paris on the
first visit to a European capital since a Palestinian unity
cabinet was sworn in two weeks ago.


The international community froze aid and contacts with the
Palestinian government in March 2006 when the hardline Islamist
Hamas movement, which won democratic elections, took power and
refused to recognize Israel.


"The international community must progressively begin a
resumption of aid to the finance ministry of the Palestinian
territories with the condition that the national unity government
adheres to the commitments it has made and that it makes more
gestures, and in particular the freeing of Corporal Shalit,"
Douste- Blazy said in a joint press conference with Abu Amr.


Gilad Shalit, who is a citizen of both France and Israel, was
abducted in a cross-border raid last June by militants from three
groups, including the armed wing of Hamas, and there has been no
sign of life from him since.


His capture sparked a major Israeli offensive against the Gaza
Strip that left hundreds of Palestinians dead.


Abu Amr said the Palestinian authorities were working "to obtain
as quickly as possible the liberation of Shalit within the
framework of an honorable prisoner exchange."


The Palestinian foreign minister is an independent in the new
government formed in March that unites Hamas with moderates in
hope that the West will lift an aid and diplomatic embargo.


Abu Amr's three-day visit to France came as German Chancellor
Angela Merkel, whose country currently holds the European Union
presidency, urged Israeli and Palestinian leaders to seize the
opportunity to revive their stalled peace talks.

