

Private equity giant Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. will buy
credit-card and payments processor First Data in a deal worth 29
billion dollars, the groups announced Monday.


The deal, one of the heftiest in the latest wave of private
equity transactions, gives shareholders 34 dollars a share, or a
26 percent premium over Friday's share price.


KKR Member Scott Nuttall said First Data "is at the forefront of
the worldwide trend toward electronic payments," and added, "We
believe that through continued investments in its technology,
people and customer relationships, First Data will build on its
history of innovation and industry leadership."


The company traces its history back to 1969 when the Mid-America
Bankcard Association was formed as a cooperative to handle credit
card transactions.


American Express bought the group in 1980, then spun it off as a
separate firm in 1992.


In 1995, the company merged with First Financial Management Corp.
Western Union became part of First Data as a result of the deal.
Western Union was spun off in 2006.


Since its initial public offering in 1992, First Data has grown
from 1.2 billion dollars in annual revenue to 10.6 billion prior
to the spin-off of Western Union and 7.1 billion afterwards.


Currently, First Data handles electronic payments for 4.9 million
merchants, 1,900 bank card issuers and their customers. It also
operates the STAR Network of automated teller machines.


Its international arm operates across Europe, Middle East and
Africa, Latin America, Canada, Australia and the Asia-Pacific
region.


Financial for the deal will come from Citigroup, Credit Suisse,
Deutsche Bank, HSBC, Lehman Brothers, Goldman Sachs and Merrill
Lynch.

