

Hong Kongers may be a hard-working bunch, but when it comes to
gaining employment in the first place some leave a lot to be
desired, a survey of questionable job-seeking techniques revealed
Monday.


From one candidate who offered her would-be boss a bribe to
another whose idea of looking for work was watching TV, the
Chinese city's job-hunters can be woefully inept.


"Despite the fact that salary increases are on the rise, job-
search etiquette is not," said international finance sector
recruitment company Robert Half, which conducted the survey of
508 employers.


With an economy that grew almost 7 percent last year, Hong Kong's
job market is buoyant. Economists forecast the city will reach
statistical full employment this year after joblessness fell to a
nine-year low of 4.4 percent.


Among those who may need all the job opportunities she can get
was the woman who offered a bribe.


"She really wanted the job and asked how much she could pay me
for it," said the survey respondent.


Another candidate for a different job forgot to hang up after a
phone interview and could be heard running down the company and
boss.


"I overheard everything he said, and it wasn't good," the
interviewer told the survey.


Other candidates showed a distinct lack of application.


"When asked what he has been doing while unemployed, the
applicant said, staying home and watching TV'," a respondent
said.


Robert Half director Andrew Brushfield said economic conditions
affected interviewees' preparedness.


"At times of job scarcity, candidates do more research into the
jobs they are going for, and at times high employment, there is
more complacency," Brushfield said.

