

Prosecutors in the trial of former aides of Saddam Hussein
accused of slaughtering Kurdish villagers on Monday demanded the
death penalty for the Saddam cousin nicknamed Chemical Ali and
four co-accused.


Lead prosecutor Munqith al-Faroon told AFP that he had called for
the death penalty for Ali Hassan al-Majid who earned his nickname
after using chemical gas bombs against the Kurdish people during
the 1988 military campaign.


But he said that he had asked for a sixth defendant -- Taher al-
Ani, a former governor of the main northern city of Mosul, to be
freed for "lack of evidence".


"We demanded the death penalty for Ali Hassan al-Majid and the
others and requested Ani to be freed," Faroon said, adding that
the prosecution had closed its arguments in the trial.


Majid is charged with genocide while the others are accused of
war crimes and crimes against humanity.


The other four accused are Sabir al-Duri, former director of
military intelligence, Sultan Hashim al-Tai, former defence
minister, Hussein Rashid al- Tikriti, former armed forces deputy
chief of operations, and Farhan al-Juburi, a former military
intelligence commander.


But despite the prosecution's call for Duri to face the death
penaltu, Faroon said he had asked the court "on a personal level
to show leniency" to the defendant.


He said the request following appeals from the people of the
central Shiite shrine city of Karbala who "say that he has done
significant humanitarian work when he was the governor of the
city."


Prior to his execution in a separate case, Saddam was the other
accused charged with genocide along with Chemical Ali.


During the 1988 Anfal (Arabic for Spoils) campaign, Saddam's
armed forces bombed and gassed thouands of Kurdish villagers.


Prosecutors charge that 182,000 Kurds died in the mass slaughter.

