

A Japanese official voiced caution Monday over the landmark free-
trade deal between Seoul and Washington, which would give South
Korean products an edge in the world's biggest consumer market.


"If the accord is launched, naturally we will face different
tariffs in the US market and it will impact on Japanese
industries," said Takao Kitabata, vice minister of economy, trade
and industry.


"We have to see what kind of effect it will have in Japan," he
told a regular press conference.


Japan and South Korea both built themselves into prosperity on
the back of high- end exports of products such as electronics and
automobiles, particularly to the United States.


The deal gives South Korea a major boost in the US market over
Asian rivals including Japan, Taiwan and China, which is expected
to be increasingly competitive.


South Korea and the United States negotiated down to the wire on
the politically sensitive free-trade agreement, which would scrap
tariffs on a huge range of items but excludes rice, as Seoul had
demanded.


The deal -- the biggest for the US since the North American Free
Trade Agreement in 1993 and its first with a major Asian economy
-- must still survive opposition in the South Korean and US
legislatures.


But it was approved just in time for US President George W. Bush
to use his "fast track" authority, meaning the Democratic-
controlled Congress will vote it up or down without the power to
amend it.


South Korean President Roh Moo-Hyun, who pushed hard for the deal
despite opposition from some political allies, said it would pave
the way for his country to become one of the world's advanced
economies.

