

French presidential frontrunner Nicolas Sarkozy on Monday
condemned the seizure by Iran of 15 British sailors but said
military action would not help resolve the standoff that he
described as "dangerous."


"Detaining the British sailors as prisoners is inadmissible and I
condemn it in the strongest terms," Sarkozy told a news
conference in Paris.


"But I do not think that a strike on Iran would help in the least
bit a situation that is already very complex and very dangerous,"
he said.


Tehran has so far refused to bow to pressure to free the 15
sailors and marines, who are were captured on March 23 during
what Britain said was a routine anti- smuggling patrol in Iraqi
waters, under UN mandate.


Iran insists they illegally entered its territorial waters and on
Monday declared that all 15 detainees had confessed to the
wrongdoing on videotape.


"All of the information at our disposal shows that the British
sailors were not in Iranian waters," said Sarkozy, the candidate
of the governing party.


Expressing his "total solidarity" with Britain, Sarkozy called on
Iran to fulfill its obligations under diplomatic conventions and
allow consular officials to visit the British detainees.


Sarkozy's main rival, Socialist Segolene Royal, on Sunday said
that she supported resorting to EU sanctions against Iran if it
continues to detain the 14 men and one woman.


Royal described the 15 British naval personnel as "hostages",
saying: "We must be very, very firm to win the immediate release
of these hostages."


Sarkozy and Royal are leading the pack of 12 candidates running
for the presidency in the April 22 vote.  A runoff is scheduled
for May 6 as none of the candidates are expected to win an
outright majority in the first round.

