

Corruption is crippling worldwide efforts to wipe out poverty and
leads to the poorest in society being denied access to basic
services, South African President Thabo Mbeki said Monday.


Speaking at a global anti-corruption forum, Mbeki said poverty
was not necessarily a cause of corruption, as the poor did not
have access to the power that would enable them to use corrupt
means to escape their situation.


"Rather, in many instances corruption serves as a sufficient
condition for the further entrenchment of poverty, negating the
potential for development," he said.


"We know of many examples where corruption robs a large section
of humanity of their right to homes, food, transport, education,
health, clean water and many other essential services."


While globalisation had created opportunities for growth and the
accumulation of wealth, Mbeki said it could also make it easier
for the rich to exploit the poor.


"Globalisation, unfettered and unchecked, creates an environment
in which the wealthy and the powerful can prey on the vulnerable
in all countries, but especially those of the South," he said.


Ministers and senior officials from over 100 countries are
attending the corruption forum, which is being held for the first
time on the African continent, which is home to some of the most
corrupt countries in the world.


In 2003, the World Bank estimated that corruption cost five
percent of the world economy, which amounts to more than 1.5
trillion dollars.


The body also says that nations that fight corruption and improve
their rule of law could increase their national income by 400
percent.


"Everywhere it (corruption) undermines democracy and good
governance, accountability and transparency," said Mbeki.


"It also seriously compromises the beneficial operation of
economic markets globally."

