

Kuwait's new Education Minister Nuriya al-Sebih took the oath in
parliament on Monday amid protests by some Islamist MPs that she
was not wearing a head cover or hijab.


As Sebih began reading the oath, Islamist tribal MP Daifallah
Buramia, supported by a few others, shouted out that she should
not be sworn in unless she complied with Islamic Sharia law
regulations.


"She should not be allowed to take the oath without complying
with Sharia regulations," Buramia shouted as speaker Jassem al-
Khorafi refused to allow him access to the microphone.


"Why don't you implement laws? Is this the government that wants
to carry out reforms?" the MP asked.


Sebih appeared unbothered as she completed taking the oath to
applause from some 50 women supporters in the public gallery,
most of whom were not wearing the hijab either.


However most of the Islamist and tribal MPs, who control the
50-seat house, did not join the protest.


When MPs passed a law granting women full political rights in May
2005, they attached a precondition requiring women to abide by
Islamic Sharia law, without spelling this out in detail.


Under Kuwaiti law, a minister automatically becomes an ex-officio
member of parliament with the same rights as elected MPs, except
voting on no-confidence motions against ministers.


Sebih, a retired bureaucrat, became the second woman minister in
the oil-rich emirate when she was included in the cabinet line-up
announced on March 25.


Maasuma al-Mubarak made history by becoming the first woman
minister in Kuwait nearly two years ago. She was given the
planning and administrative development portfolio.


Speaker Khorafi said on Wednesday that parliament's rules do not
require Sebih to wear a head cover when she attends sessions.


Kuwait is a conservative religious state, but unlike neighbouring
Saudi Arabia there are no restrictions on women's dress code and
they are free to choose whether to wear the hijab or not.

