

The Turkish economy was stronger than expected last year, growing
by 6.0 percent instead of the 5.0 percent previously forecast,
the Turkish statistics institute said Monday.


Fourth quarter growth was only 4.6 percent but a robust expansion
of 7.5 percent in the first half of the year made up the
difference, allowing the government to exceed its target, the
institute added.


Turkey's economy is one of the strongest in the region, having
grown by 5.9 percent in 2003, 9.9 percent in 2004 and 7.6 percent
in 2005.


"The Turkish economy has set a new record by growing
uninterruptedly over the past 20 quarters," the Anatolia news
agency quoted Economy Minister Ali Babacan as saying.


"This is not just a temporary growth of one or two years," he
said. "Turkey has become a country with a sustainable growth
trend."


Babacan stressed that "the private sector is the main driving
force of the growth... which constitutes a guarantee of growth in
the coming period."


In February 2005, Ankara successfully terminated for the first
time an economic restructuring programme sponsored by the
International Monetary Fund, ending a string of 17 failed
attempts.


The IMF had granted Turkey 16 billion dollars in financial
assistance following a severe financial crisis in 2001 that sent
the economy into one of its worst depressions.


A second, three-year stand-by agreement for 10 billion dollars
signed in 2005 aims to complete and consolidate economic
reconstruction.


Despite the progress, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan's
government has failed to contain a widening current account
deficit and missed its inflation target last year for the first
time since it came to power in 2002.


Price increases hit 9.65 percent in 2006, nearly double the 5.0
percent year-end target set in the IMF-backed program.


The government is also under fire for failing to reduce
unemployment and combat a large unregistered sector.

