

An Egyptian archaeological delegation returned from France on
Monday with remnants of hair and bandages from one of Egypt's
most famous pharaohs that were nearly sold on the Internet,
authorities said.


"The hairs of Ramses II have returned to Egypt, to their home and
they will be returned to the head of the mummy," antiquities
director Zahi Hawass told AFP.


Frenchman Jean-Michel Diebolt, a 50-year-old postman living in
the Alps, advertised the samples online for 2,000 euros (2,633
dollars), prompting a storm of outrage from Egypt which is
particularly sensitive to any pilfering of its heritage.


"This is the end of this unfortunate history, it is not worth a
war," added Hawass, who at the time said he would demand an
official apology from the French government.


Diebolt, who was briefly arrested by police, said the samples
came into his possession via his father who was part of a team of
French scientists tasked with analysing the royal mummy 30 years
ago.


Ramses II's mummy, which is currently housed in Cairo's Egyptian
Museum, was sent to Paris in 1976 to be treated for a fungal
infection.


The pharaoh, who reigned from 1279 to 1213 BC, was issued with an
Egyptian passport and received at Paris's Le Bourget airport with
a ceremony fit for a king.


The French lab where the man's father allegedly worked, the
Atomic Energy Commissariat (CEA) in southeastern Grenoble,
confirmed it was sent fragments of the mummy's hair, resin and
bandaging for analysis in 1976 and 1977.


Ramses II was one of Egypt's most powerful pharaohs, and he
filled the country with vast statues and monuments dedicated to
himself.

