

Turkey's top administrative court on Monday scrapped a
restriction on alcohol sales that had led to accusations against
the government for seeking to reinforce the role of Islam in this
secular, Muslim country, the Anatolia news agency reported.


The regulation, which entitles local administrations to designate
"red zones" for establishments serving wine and spirits, does not
comply with existing laws and "could result in places that serve
alcohol being pushed outside urban life in a sense of isolation,"
the court said.


The ruling followed a petition by the Ankara Bar Association,
which argued that the regulation was against public interest and
violated constitutional articles on the rule of law, equality and
the right to work.


The governing Justice and Development Party (AKP), the offshoot
of a now-banned Islamist party, has often come under fire for
seeking to erode the secularist principles of the state.


Soon after the regulation was issued in October 2005, several
AKP-controlled municipalities attempted to move taverns outside
cities, sparking accusations that they sought to discourage
alcohol consumption in a country where drinking is widespread and
seen as part of modern life.


The AKP has disowned its Islamist roots and pledged allegiance to
secularism, but sceptics say the party still has secret Islamist
ambitions.


Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan and many of his close aides
are practicing Muslims who do not drink and whose wives wear the
Islamic headscarf.


Pressure from the secular establishment has forced the AKP to
back down on a campaign promise to scrap a ban on headscarves in
Turkish universities, as well as attempts to make adultery
subject to prison sentences and ease university access for
graduates of Muslim preachers' schools.

