

Bahrain's crown prince slammed ministers in published remarks on
Monday for their silence after Islamist parliamentarians
condemned a cultural festival they considered to be immoral.


"Nobody has said anything. The ministers' irresponsible attitude
is regrettable. I'm very disappointed," Sheikh Salman bin Hamad
al-Khalifa said in an interview with the Al-Ayyam daily.


Sunni and Shiite Islamists who control three-quarters of the 40
seats in parliament voted last month in favour of a motion to set
up a commission of inquiry into the "Spring of Culture" festival,
which runs in the small Gulf kingdom until mid-April.


Twenty-nine MPs backed the motion, charging that the festival, a
joint venture between the government and private firms, violates
Islamic morals.


They singled out a musical on a love story written by Bahraini
poet Qassem Haddad.


"We all defend religion. We are all Muslim and we respect the
opinions of others. But this outcry is not in the interests of
the country or its citizens," the crown prince said, denouncing
"intrigues that threaten civil liberties" in Bahrain.


While saying the festival organisers had his full confidence,
Sheikh Salman also added that he was "confident they will close
the gap and improve the programme for next year."


The kingdom of Bahrain has traditionally been relatively liberal
by the standards of the conservative Gulf region, but Sunni
Islamists, who are close to the government, agitated in the
previous parliament for a clampdown on entertainment deemed to
violate Islamic tenets.


Three years ago, they forced the Saudi-owned MBC satellite
television channel to suspend production of an Arabic version of
the reality TV show Big Brother being filmed in Bahrain, charging
that it flouted Islamic traditions.


Opposition Shiite Islamists entered parliament in 2006 elections.
The population of the Sunni-ruled Gulf archipelago is
predominantly Shiite.

