

World Health Organisation (WHO) chief Margaret Chan on Monday
urged governments to prepare for a bird flu pandemic, describing
it as a certainty although the timing and severity was unknown.


"The next pandemic will certainly happen," the director-general
told a news conference after a forum in Singapore on improving
health security worldwide.


But she noted that "nobody can predict the timing and nobody can
predict whether it's going to be a severe or mild pandemic."


She also said no scientist can predict which avian inluenza virus
will spark a pandemic, but added that the H5N1 strain has been
prominent over the past several years.


"So my advice to all member states is to maintain vigilance, to
prepare for the pandemic. One thing we know for certain is any
country that is prepared will see less damage," Chan said.


Singapore's Senior Minister of State for Foreign Affairs Balaji
Sadasivan told the same news conference that the Spanish flu
pandemic killed around 40 million people in 1918 largely because
it took the world by surprise.


"Being prepared, being vigilant can make a difference," Sadasivan
said.


Since 2003, avian influenza has killed at least 169 people,
mostly in Southeast Asia.


But Chan noted that the virus has spread to other parts of the
world.


"I think the world has not seen this kind of spread of an avian
influenza. We call it unprecedented spread. It has gone outside
its Asia focus.


"It has gone to Middle East, it has gone to Europe, it has gone
to Africa. The only continents so far that have not reported
outbreak are in North America and South America."


Chan said what while the WHO would like to see bird flu under
control, "my sense is that we need to maintain our vigilance, we
cannot let our guard down."

