

Wasps chief executive David Davies warned Monday that English
Premiership rugby clubs could boycott next year's European Cup
because of the ongoing dispute with the Rugby Football Union
(RFU).


The Premiership clubs want some of the RFU shares in European
Rugby Cup Limited, in addition to greater voting rights.


And they will meet this week to consider whether or not they will
support a proposed French boycott by also pulling out of the
European Cup and European Challenge Cup tournaments next term.


The threat comes less than 24 hours after a record three English
teams - Leicester, Wasps and Northampton - qualified for this
season's European Cup semi-finals.


"If the RFU persists with its current standpoint, it is
questionable whether there will be any European competition next
year," Davies told the Guardian.


"That would call into question the future of the tournament.


"There is a growing feeling that the clubs who bring most to this
competition should have a voice in how it is run commercially,
having long expressed our concerns about its commercial
performance."


Leicester chief executive Peter Wheeler believes it is vital
clubs have a great say in the development of rugby union's top
European competitions.


"It is a great shame that on the day of exciting quarter-finals
of a great tournament, they should be overshadowed by the
prospect of teams from countries who have played key and
essential roles in the development of the competition being
forced into not taking part next year, and perhaps beyond," said
Wheeler.


"It is vital that the clubs, who are the driving forces of the
tournament, have an increased say in the development of it."


Under an agreement between Premier Rugby and the RFU, England's
top clubs are contracted to play in both major European
competitions for the next two seasons.


And according to several sources the RFU have warned the English
clubs that they are prepared to take legal action should a
boycott go ahead.

