

Six German Tornado jets took off for Afghanistan on Monday to
start a surveillance mission that has been heavily criticised in
Germany.


The planes lifted off from the Jagel base in northern Germany to
begin their journey to Afghanistan, where they will be used for
reconnaissance flights to assist NATO forces fighting a Taliban
resurgence.


They are expected to begin flights over Afghanistan next Monday.


Defence Minister Franz Josef Jung told the crews before their
departure they would be "helping to ensure the security" of the
Afghan people.


The commanding officer of the Tornado mission, Group Captain
Thorsten Poschwatta, reiterated that the jets would not be used
in attacks.


"We are only doing surveillance, we will not be flying any combat
missions," he said.


But the opposition Greens have argued that the deployment of the
jets will inevitably draw the German military into more danger.


The planes will be stationed in the northern city of
Mazar-i-Sharif, although many of their missions will be in the
violence-hit south where Taliban militants are mounting their
strongest resurgence since they were overthrown by the US-led
invasion five years ago.


Poschwatta said one particular focus of their operations would be
the border region between Afghanistan and Pakistan, from where
Taliban militants operate.


Around 2,750 German troops are stationed in the relatively
peaceful north of Afghanistan, but Chancellor Angela Merkel's
coalition government has so far resisted pressure from its NATO
allies to deploy troops in the south.


The leader of coalition partners the Social Democrats, Kurt Beck,
on Monday ruled out sending more soldiers to Afghanistan.

