

A Thai zoo on Monday resorted to artificial insemination for
their hugely popular but sexually inactive giant pandas after
daily pornographic videos and a low-carb diet failed to prompt
the desired response.


Officials at Chiang Mai Zoo in northern Thailand injected semen
taken from six- year-old Chuang Chuang into his partner, five-
year-old Lin Hui, after their intensive mating course failed to
prompt natural coupling.


Chuang Chuang, who had been deemed too heavy to mate with Lin
Hui, lost seven kilograms (15 pounds) after being put on a low-
carbohydrate diet.


But despite his new svelte figure, the male did not respond to
the 15-minute video clips showing successful panda couplings,
which were meant to encourage copy-cat behaviour.


Chuang Chuang and Lin Hui, who were separated in December last
year, were reunited Sunday and it was hoped sparks would fly.


But instead the pair, who arrived on a 10-year loan from China in
2003, settled for some good-natured frolicking -- and little
else.


"We hoped the natural mating could work after Lin Hui's hormones
peaked yesterday, but it failed. Nothing happened," a zoo
official said.


"We have to wait for about four months from now to see whether
the artificial insemination was successful or not," she added.


Giant pandas, notorious for their low sex drive, are among the
world's most endangered animals.


Chiang Mai held an elaborate Chinese wedding for the couple in
2005 in the hope of encouraging them to procreate, and is
considering bringing in a snow machine to help recreate a
mountainous habitat.


Nearly 1,600 pandas in China are believed to survive in the wild
and around 180 are being raised in captivity in zoos worldwide.

