

Solomon Islands Prime Minister Manasseh Sogavare said Monday his
government was dispatching tents, food and water to victims of
the devastating tsunami in the country's west.


"I would like to assure our people that as soon as the full
report on the extent of the destruction is known, cabinet will
decide on further assistance," Sogavare said in an address to the
nation.


A team of officials and the Red Cross were dispatched to the
western town of Munda to arrange assistance to the region, where
officials said at least 15 people had been killed.


The tsunami hit islands in Western Province, including the
provincial hub of Gizo, which was just 45 kilometres (28 miles)
from the epicentre of the 8.0 magnitude quake which set off the
tsunami Monday morning.


Other islands in Western Province were also affected, along with
neighbouring Choiseul province.


"My heart goes out to all of you in this very trying time,"
Sogavare said, urging his people to pray for the nation.


Gizo hospital worker Ian Maneatu Laska was quoted by the
government information service as saying the six had been swept
out by the tsunami.


"There are still missing people whose bodies were seen floating
at sea this afternoon," Laska said.


"Local rescue groups were unable to retrieve them as huge waves
prevented rescue efforts," he said.


Earlier, the premier of Western Province, Alex Lokopio said he
understood at least 15 people had been killed around Gizo, a
diving centre for small numbers of foreign tourists.


"Reports have come in that more than 15 people died, just around
Gizo, but with the other islands I cannot tell you," Lokopio told
Radio New Zealand.

