

The European Commission voiced hope Monday that a visiting
Spanish minister would backdown in a standoff over conditions
Madrid has imposed on German energy group EON's bid for Spanish
utility Endesa.


Industry Minister Joan Clos is to meet with EU Competition
Commissioner Neelie Kroes early Monday evening less than a week
after the Commission launched a second lawsuit against Spain for
its attempts to block the bid.


"If ever Clos announced that all the illegal restrictions were
from now on eliminated, we could have another look at the
situation," Kroes' spokesman Jonathan Todd told journalists ahead
of the meeting.


"But given that until now the Spanish authorities have only
repeated why they consider these measures are not illegal, I'm
not holding my breath," he added.


The EU's executive arm open the second lawsuit on Wednesday
because Spain has defied its repeated requests for Madrid to lift
conditions it has imposed on EON's bid for Endesa, a Spanish
power company.


The Spanish energy regulator CNE has set a number of requirements
for EON, including that it must conserve for five years the
Endesa brand name of the biggest Spanish electricity generator.


Other requirements stipulate that Spanish coal must be used in
power stations and that certain assets can not be sold off.


It lodged a first lawsuit against Spain before the EU court in
January for giving its energy regulator powers to scrutinise
foreign takeovers, which EU regulators considered "unjustified".


Madrid has been fighting tooth and nail to keep EON from taking
over Endesa, even though EU competition regulators have approved
the deal.


The EON-Endesa case has been widely seen in Brussels as a
flagrant example of protectionism by Spain.

