

The dollar steadied against major currencies Monday ahead of
fresh US manufacturing data, and as dealers digested a slightly
bigger-than-expected decline in Japanese business confidence.


They added that foreign exchange market participants were
awaiting other economic indicators this week amid uncertainty
about the prospects for the US economy, while watching growing
tensions between Iran and Britain.


The euro eased to 1.3351 dollars in early European trading, from
1.3356 dollars late in New York on Friday.


The dollar was unchanged at 117.82 yen in European trade,
compared with late on Friday.


Dealers readied for the Institute of Supply Management's
manufacturing index, due for publication in the United States on
Monday.


News of US plans to impose sanctions on some Chinese imports had
dented the dollar on Friday.


"The dollar remains prone to further selling in the wake of the
China duty announcement and this afternoon's ISM manufacturing is
unlikely to turn dollar sentiment ahead of the key US employment
report on Friday," said Derek Halpenny, senior currency economist
at The Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi.


The Japanese currency came under pressure overnight after the
Bank of Japan said business confidence fell back from a two-year
high in the three months to March, marking the first decline for
a year.


But the yen later recovered ground as market participants took
the view that the dip will not threaten the Japanese economic
recovery.


"The Tankan showed some weakness but that was still within
expectations," said Saburo Matsumoto, chief forex strategist at
Sumitomo Trust Bank.


"For some players, the result was even better than originally
anticipated," Matsumoto said. "It is hard for any players to
continue selling the yen only based on the Tankan result."


Confidence among Japan's big manufacturers dropped to 23 in March
from 25 in December, the Tankan survey showed, slightly below
market expectations for a figure of 24, the central bank said.


The market was meanwhile keeping a close watch on trade frictions
between the United States and China, as well as the standoff
between Britain and Iran over 15 British sailors and marines
seized in the Gulf.


The euro was changing hands at 1.3351 dollars, against 1.3356
dollars on Friday, 157.31 yen (157.35), 0.6767 pounds (0.6784)
and 1.6225 Swiss francs (1.6232).


The dollar stood at 117.82 yen (117.82) and 1.2154 Swiss francs
(1.2152).


The pound was being traded at 1.9723 dollars (1.9679).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold dipped to 663.30
dollars per ounce, from 661.75 dollars late on Friday.

