

Palestinian information minister Mustafa Barghuti met Monday with
Italian Foreign Minister Massimo D'Alema, a first for the
Palestinian unity cabinet, the Italian ministry said.


The meeting in Rome and a meeting between Palestinian foreign
minister Ziad Abu Amr and his French counterpart in Paris, also
set for Monday, are the first in European Union member states by
ministers of the unity government formed by the Palestinians in
March 2006.


The Barghuti-D'Alema meeting lasted about 45 minutes, the Italian
foreign ministry said, adding only that the two men had met
before.


Barghuti, speaking by phone to AFP in Ramallah afterward, said:
"I called on Italy and the entire European Union to deal
immediately with this government and not to make a distinction
among its ministers."


Barghuti said D'Alema assured him that "Italy will work with its
European partners to adopt a positive and flexible position
towards the Palestinian unity cabinet."


Barghuti and Abu Amr are members of a new cabinet formed in March
that unites the radical Hamas Islamist movement with moderates in
the hope that the West will lift an aid and diplomatic embargo.


German Chancellor Angela Merkel said Sunday that the European
Union would not have contacts with government ministers who
refuse to renounce violence and recognise Israel.


Many Western powers have eased their boycott by agreeing to meet
non-Hamas ministers, but have so far refused to resume direct aid
to the Palestinian Authority.


Barghuti said he had "explained (to D'Alema) the political
program of the Palestinian unity government. The alternative to
this government (grouping Fatah and Hamas) would have been the
collapse of the Palestinian Authority."

