

Hong Kong share prices closed flat Monday, giving up early gains
as the Japanese stock market reversed direction and finished
sharply lower, dealers said.


Worries over a standoff between the West and Iran over seizure of
British military personnel, the recent uptrend in crude oil
prices and uncertainties over the US economy prompted investors
to shed positions, they said.


Trade was also cautious ahead of upcoming holidays, with the
market to be closed from Thursday until next Monday for the Ching
Ming Festival and Easter.


The benchmark Hang Seng Index closed up 8.77 points at 19,809.70,
off a low of 19,672.94 and a high of 19,976.81. Turnover was
42.39 billion Hong Kong dollars (5.4 billion US dollars).


"The index encountered resistance when it approached the 20,000
points level after opening with strong gains," said Howard
Gorges, vice chairman at South China Securities.


"Some investors decided to take profit when they saw that the
index could not breach the 20,000 level, especially with sharp
falls on the Tokyo market and uncertainties in different parts of
the world," he said.


Gorges noted that the "outlook for the US economy remains
uncertain because economic data remain mixed".


Moreover, "Iran's tension with the UK and the US remains and its
impact on crude oil price movement is uncertain".


"In the face of these uncertainties and the absence of any local
market-moving news, many investors turned cautious in afternoon
trade and locked in some profit," he said.


China Mobile fell 0.80 dollars to 70.25.


Other blue chips traded mixed, with HSBC gaining 0.50 at 136.30,
Sun Hung Kai Properties down 0.45 at 89.95 and PetroChina down
0.05 at 9.22.


Properties were also mixed, with Henderson Land flat at 45.65,
Sino Land up 0.32 at 17.14 and Wharf Holdings down 0.15 percent.


Among banking stocks, Hang Seng Bank was down 0.10 at 110.90 and
Bank of East Asia was up 0.30 at 45.75.


Dealers said news that China is considering widening the scope of
overseas investment permitted for commercial banks and insurance
companies under the Qualified Domestic Institutional Investor
(QDII) program helped sentiment for some H-shares.


ICBC was up 0.02 at 4.40. The bank will announce its 2006 results
Tuesday.


Among other China stocks, Sinopec gained 0.02 at 6.63, China
Unicom was down 0.08 at 11.18 and Bank of China was flat at 3.89.


China Netcom lost 0.50 at 19.90 after reporting that its 2006 net
profit fell 6.7 percent to 12.96 billion yuan (1.6 billion US
dollars) as the group's fixed- line telecom services in China
came under severe pressure due to intensified competition from
mobile phone service providers.

