

Global steel giant Arcelor-Mittal on Monday announced a share
buyback programme to repurchase up to 590 million dollars (443
million euros) worth of shares.


It said in a statement the buyback was part of a dividend policy
to return 30 percent of net income each year to shareholders.


"This share buyback programme follows global steel giant Arcelor-
Mittal's announcement on September 27, 2006 of a proposed new
dividend policy of returning 30 percent of its net income to
shareholders every year through an annual base dividend
supplemented by additional share buybacks," it said in a
statement.


The steel company said it expected the buyback to start on
Tuesday and finish at the earliest on December 31, or when it
reachs the 590 million dollars buyback limit or when it holds 10
percent of "common class A" shares.


Arcelor-Mittal said the maximum price per share will be 125
percent of the share price on the New York Stock Exchange or
Euronext Amsterdam and a minimum of the par value of the share at
the time of repurchase.


Arcelor shares were stable on Monday trading at 53.03 Euros in
late morning trade on Euronext in Paris.


With annual steel production of 115 million tonnes, the company
currently dwarfs its next biggest rival Nippon steel, but it is
nevertheless aiming to lift its output to 150-200 million tonnes
by 2015.


The company has unleashed a wave of consolidation in the sector
since Mittal Steel bought Arcelor last year with the latest
ripple coming from Indian group Tata's purchase of British-Dutch
group Corus.


After swallowing up Arcelor, the company is pushing ahead with
its expansion through takeovers of Mexican group Sicartsa and US
group Noble while also making plans to open new plants and iron
mines around the world.

