

Tickets for Euro 2008 matches that went on sale in March will be
distributed by lottery after fans ordered 30 times more seats
than were available, organisers revealed Monday.


The demand for 10.36 million tickets was 18 times higher than for
the previous European championship finals in Portugal in 2004 and
nearly matched last year's World Cup in Germany.


Some 588,716 people from 142 countries placed orders for next
year's finals in Austria and Switzerland by the deadline of March
31, organisers said in a statement. All matches were
oversubscribed.


About 346,000 tickets were available for all 31 matches during
the one-month Internet sale.


The random lottery will be held in mid-April under the
supervision of legal officials and fans should the outcome know
by the end of this month, the Euro 2008 SA organisers said.


All of the applications will be checked before they enter the
lottery to prevent black market sales and for security vetting,
said Euro 2008 SA spokesman Wolfgang Eichler.


"This is mainly to see if there are false applications or not.
There are also hooligan databases involved, to find if people are
registered there," he told AFP.


The last chance to find a seat at Euro 2008 will be early next
year, when another 399,000 tickets will be sold through the
national associations of the 16 teams that eventually qualify for
the finals.


On average each nation will be allocated 19 percent of the seats
available in the matches they play.


The rest of the 1.05 million seats at the June 7-29 finals will
be used for VIPs and sponsors.


The biggest demand in the initial phase of sales came from joint
hosts Switzerland, who accounted for 29 percent of the ticket
requests, followed by neighbouring Germany (27 percent) and the
other host, Austria (21 percent).


Other countries each accounted for one to three percent of the
requests, led by Portugal.


German, Swiss, English and Dutch fans ordered the most "Follow my
team" subscriptions, the organisers said.

