

Bangladesh's powerful army chief on Monday called for a major
overhaul of the country's political landscape, saying previous
democratic governments had bred corruption and crime.


"We don't want to go back to elected democracy where corruption
in society becomes all pervasive, governance suffers in terms of
disparity and violation of rights, and where political
criminalisation threatens the very survival and integrity of the
state," Lieutenant General Moeen U Ahmed said.


The army is widely seen as having engineered events in January
that led to President Iajuddin Ahmed stepping down as head of the
interim government, cancelling disputed elections and imposing
emergency rule following months of political violence.


Moeen defended the emergency, saying it was "consistent with the
democratic development" of the country.


He also repeated his backing for the current interim government,
which is carrying out a major anti-corruption campaign as part of
sweeping reforms ahead of new but as yet unscheduled democratic
elections.


"I believe the current transitional period allows us an
opportunity to develop a new concept and find a new sense of
direction to the future politics of Bangladesh," he said.


"The country has principles to live by and purpose to strive for,
and this needs rethinking so that we can reinvent our system of
governance with new leadership at all levels."


The emergency rule has been broadly welcomed in Bangladesh as a
much needed break from the cycle of political battles between the
two main parties -- the Bangladeshi Nationalist Party (BNP) of
Khaleda Zia and the Awami League of Sheikh Hasina Wajed.


Top figures from both of the parties have been targeted by the
corruption crackdown.

