

South Asia's expanding but underperforming SAARC grouping needs
to work harder and overcome internal rivalries to boost regional
cooperation, officials said Monday on the eve of a summit.


"We are at a defining moment in SAARC history," Indian Foreign
Minister Pranab Mukherjee said ahead of the South Asian
Association of Regional Cooperation (SAARC) summit on Tuesday and
Wednesday.


"We have a collective opportunity to leapfrog and undertake a
quantum jump for development," he said, calling for member states
to set aside bilateral tensions and model infrastructure links on
those of the European Union or the Association of South East
Asian Nations (ASEAN).


SAARC is made up of Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, the Maldives,
Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka. Afghanistan will also be formally
inducted into the bloc at the summit.


The grouping was set up in 1985 as a collective development
platform to do business with wealthier cousins, such as ASEAN,
but scant progress has been registered between the region of 1.4
billion people.


Iftekar Ahmed Chowdhury, Bangladesh's interim foreign minister,
also echoed concerns over lacklustre progress.


"We have to interact between ourselves. We must expand our
connectivity ... and develop a South Asian identity," he said
following the summit agenda-setting talks between the ministers.


SAARC members, he said, "have proceeded with circumspection" when
it came to cooperation.


A South Asian Free Trade Agreement came into effect last year,
but Pakistan's refusal to grant India Most Favoured Nation
trading status has helped keep intra-regional trade mired at five
percent of the countries' total.


Pakistan's Foreign Minister Khurshid Mahmud Kasuri said the peace
process with arch-rival India, launched in January 2004, would
give "furtherance to the SAARC process."

