

Norwegian shipbuilding giant Aker Yards said on Monday it has
been awarded a cruise vessel order by Royal Carribean Cruises
(RCC), worth 900 million euros (1.2 billion dollars).


The Norwegian shipbuilder said the order is for a 'Genesis' class
cruise liner, the second such vessel to be ordered by RCC.


Aker Yards said delivery of the latest 220,000 gross-tonne vessel
is scheduled for August 2010, and that it will be manufactured at
its shipyard in Finland.


"Genesis is a big challenge for us, when it comes to size and
complexity in the numerous technical innovations," Aker Yards'
president of Cruise & Ferries, Yrjo Julin, said.


The scale of the vessel can be illustrated by the fact it will be
36 metres (118 feet) longer than the height of Eiffel Tower, and
will weigh more than twelve times the French landmark, he said.


Aker Yards said its 'Cruise & Ferries' unit now has 22
vessels in its order- book, eleven of which are cruise vessels.


In January 2006, Aker Yards bought French shipyards Chantiers de
L'Atlantique, making it the fourth-biggest shipbuilder in the
world and the second-biggest cruise ship maker after Italy's
Fincantieri group.


Aker Yards employs 55,000 people and has shipyards in 17
countries.


It reported net profit of 1.037 billion kroner (127 million
euros, 170 million dollars) last year, an increase of 33.5
percent from the result in 2005.


Faced with fierce competition from Asian shipbuilders in South
Korea, Japan and China, Aker Yards has helped consolidate the
European industry and has focused on manufacturing complex
vessels requiring advanced engineering and design.


It is a leader in the production of cruise ships, merchant
vessels such as cargo ships, and other ships requiring
customisation or specialised technology such as anchor handlers
or large oil platform supply boats.

