

The care group Emergency on Monday accused the Italian government
of being "lackeys" of Washington for failing to protect one of
its employees held for two weeks in Kabul.


"We have a government of lackeys and cowards," Gino Strada, the
founder of the Italian humanitarian agency told the daily La
Stampa in an interview published Monday.


Emergency, which has worked in Afghanistan for 10 years, brokered
the March 19 release of La Repubblica journalist Daniele
Mastrogiacomo in exchange for the release of five Taliban
militants by the Afghan government.


Rahmatullah Hanefi, the Afghan head of personnel at Emergency
hospital in the southern city of Lashkar Gah who played a role in
freeing Mastrogiacomo, is believed to be held by the Afghan
secret service.


The United States, Britain and the Netherlands, which all have
troops as well as Italy in NATO's International Security
Assistance Force (ISAF), sharply criticised the release of the
five Taliban.


"I have the impression that the Americans are behind this
affair," Strada told La Stampa.


"The Afghan health minister told me that there were 'invisible
hands' behind all this. And when I told our ambassador in Kabul
'the hands may be invisible but the Stars and Stripes uniforms
are easily recognisable,' he started laughing and nodding his
head," Strada said.


Strada demanded that Italian Prime Minister Romano Prodi make an
"official demand" to Afghan President Hamid Karzai for
Rahmatullah's release, he told La Stampa. "We want an official,
written, public request from government to government," he said.


On Sunday the Italian foreign ministry told AFP that a Red Cross
delegation had been allowed to see Rahmatullah.


Mastrogiacomo's interpreter Adjmal Naqshbandi, for his part,
remains in Taliban hands.

