

Australian Foreign Minister Alexander Downer reiterated Monday
that a just- signed security pact with Japan was not aimed at
containing a rising China.


"This is not directed at China," Downer told AFP in an interview.


"So it's not a big issue in our relationship with China," he
said.


The bilateral security agreement reached between Canberra and
Tokyo in mid-March seeks to boost cooperation in peacekeeping,
emergencies, and counter-terrorism.


The signing was officially pacifist Japan's first such deal with
the exception of its alliance with the United States.


Australia and Japan have played down concerns that the pact was
meant to contain China, which is rapidly expanding its military
spending.


Downer noted in Shanghai, where he began an official four-day
visit that also will take him to Beijing and Mongolia, that the
deal was explicitly about its ties with Japan and not China.


He added that the arrangement had been made clear to China and
that Beijing had not expressed concerns to him.


"Their line is that they are interested in transparency and we
have given them transparency," Downer said, adding that Australia
was also entitled to seek its own security interests in the
region.


"We are entitled to have a good and strong relationship with
China and we are entitled to have a good and strong relationship
with Japan, without either of them tut-tutting us for having a
good relationship with either of them."


Though relations have warmed slightly, an undercurrent of
mistrust still runs between the two Asian giants due to Japan's
record of World War II aggression and China's current campaign to
beef up its military strength.

