

A Malaysian blogger being sued by a newspaper for defamation said
Monday he may call former prime minister Mahathir Mohamad as a
witness in his defence.


The government-linked New Straits Times Press (NSTP) January
filed controversial legal suits against Ahirudin Attan and
another blogger, Jeff Ooi, over items published on their sites
last year.


Ahirudin said Mahathir, as well as current prime minister
Abdullah Ahmad Badawi, were integral to the case as they were
mentioned in the postings, which criticised the newspaper and the
government.


"If the bridge comes, I supposed I'll cross it. So if I have to
call, I will call (Mahathir). They are all involved in my
postings," Ahirudin told AFP.


Ahirudin did not elaborate further, saying he could be cited for
contempt of court.


Malaysia's high court on Monday allowed Ahirudin to drop an
application to strike out the NSTP's law suit, a move his lawyer
Edmund Bon said was made after the group in February broadened
the suit to include more articles.


"We are exploring the possibility of filing a new application,"
Bon told reporters.


The high court on June 28 is also scheduled to hear an
application by the NSTP for an injunction aimed at stopping
Ahirudin, and removing the postings from his website, Bon said.


The NSTP has already won an injunction against Ooi to stop him
from publishing articles or posting comments related to the
unprecedented lawsuit.


Malaysian bloggers and media watchdogs have criticised the
defamation lawsuit against Ahirudin, who writes the "Rocky's Bru"
blog, and Ooi, who blogs "Screenshots."


They say the legal action will stifle free expression in Malaysia
where the media is already tightly controlled.


Ahirudin said he had plans to set up a national bloggers'
association.


"It's inspired by this law suit. We will promote blogging ... as
well as protect bloggers," he said.


Abdullah has defended the NSTP's suit, saying the Internet is not
exempt from defamation laws.

