

The Czech public deficit improved to 2.95 percent of gross
domestic product in 2006 from 3.53 percent a year earlier, the
Czech Statistical Office announced on Monday.


At the same time, overall government debt improved to 30.37
percent of GDP from 30.42 percent in 2005, the office added.


The figures are much better than finance ministry predictions
last month which estimated the 2006 public deficit at 3.5 percent
of GDP with the expectation that it would worsen to 4.0 percent
this year.


"Our figures make use of the latest statistics," Ludmila Vebrova,
head of the government accounts unit at the statistical office
told AFP.


The latest figures were released on the same day that the centre-
right coalition government was to hold a key meeting to thrash
out a package of spending cuts and tax changes.


Czech media reports suggest ministers would be asked to approve a
series of tax changes including a cut in the new basic rate of
tax to 15 percent for individual taxpayers.


The current lower level of Value Added Tax rate should be raised
from 5.0 percent to 9.0 percent and the current 19.0 percent
basic rate lowered, the daily Lidove Noviny reported on Monday.


Ministers will also be asked to approve a series of public
spending cuts with social benefits expected to the main target
for savings.


"I expect negotiations will be very tough," Finance Minister
Miroslav Kalousek told the daily Lidove Noviny, adding that the
package of measures was aimed at "bringing round public finances
from their debt trap situation."


The fragile government, which only won a vote of confidence in
January thanks to leftwing defectors, has pledged to resign if it
can not push through its ambitious series of reform measures.

