

US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice has confirmed Washington's
support for Estonia in the diplomatic row with Russia sparked by
the removal of a Soviet war memorial from central Tallinn, the
Estonian presidency said Friday.


In a telephone conversation with President Toomas Hendrik Ilves
late Thursday, Rice confirmed the support of the United States
for Estonia and expressed deep concern about Russia's behavior
toward its small western neighbour, the Estonian president's
office said in a statement.


Rice also voiced the hope that the blockade of the Estonian
embassy in Moscow by demonstrators will soon end, and urged
Russia to respect the Vienna Convention on diplomatic relations,
the statement said.


Estonia was plunged into its worst diplomatic crisis since
independence from the Soviet Union in 1991 last week when the
authorities in Tallinn removed a memorial to Soviet soldiers who
fought in World War II from the place it had stood in central
Tallinn since 1947.


Hundreds of people, many of them Russian-speaking, rioted in
Tallinn on Thursday and Friday last week over the statue's
removal, while in Moscow, pro-Kremlin youth groups staged noisy
protests outside the Estonian embassy, blockading diplomatic
staff and their families inside.


On Wednesday the youths blockading the Moscow embassy tried to
attack the Estonian ambassador, and also damaged a car carrying
the Swedish ambassador.


The US State Department said earlier this week that the row over
the Bronze Soldier war memorial was an internal issue that should
be left to Estonians to resolve.

