

The famed US film director Oliver Stone on Thursday unveiled an
advertisement which he directed for a left-wing US group
demanding the pullout of US troops from Iraq.


The 30-second ad, sponsored by the MoveOn.org political action
group, features a soldier who fought in Iraq in 2003 and 2004 and
now wants Congress and US President George W. Bush to bring the
troops home.


Bush "tried to legalize the war, saying that it was Operation
Iraqi Freedom. But I didn't feel that way. The people that were
attacking the troops were Iraqi people feeling that we were
occupying them," says soldier John Bruhns.


"I'm no pacifist. I supported the war in Afghanistan. I consider
myself as a patriot," he adds.


The advertisement is to begin running Thursday to US audiences on
CNN.


Stone, an Oscar-winning director whose Vietnam-themed films
include "Born on the Fourth of July" and "Platoon," himself
fought as a soldier in Vietnam in the 1960s.


"Forty years ago, I was in Vietnam. I saw what I saw. To me, it's
the same story in Iraq. Civilian alienation, our inability to
communicate, the death and the destruction," he told a news
conference.


"For a lot of reasons, folks are talking right now, saying that
we're not wanted" in Iraq, Stone said. "People like John have to
tell us."


Ron Kovic, a Vietnam veteran who was paralyzed during the war and
whose life story was featured in Stone's 1989 film "Born on the
Fourth of July," offers a voiceover in the ad.


"How many more men and women have to come home in a wheelchair
like me?" asks Kovic, who was portrayed by Tom Cruise in the
film. "This war makes no sense."

