

Hong Kong share prices closed at a record high Friday as property
stocks gained hopes that a government land auction next week will
attract strong bids from major real estate developers and help
boost the sector, dealers said.


They said sentiment was generally positive following Wall
Street's record breaking run.


Other China stocks also rose on expectations that mainland
bourses will post further gains after resuming trade next week
following the Labor Day holidays.


The Hang Seng Index closed up 159.50 points at 20,841.08, off a
high of 20,883.21 and a low of 20,714.82. For the week, the index
is up 314.58 points or 1.5 percent. Turnover was 63.96 billion
Hong Kong dollars (8.2 billion US).


The index's previous all-time closing high was 20,821.05, hit on
January 24 this year. Its all-time intraday high is 20,971.46,
also hit on the same day in January.


"Property stocks were in focus ahead of the government land
auction next week, which many expect will draw strong bids from
major developers," said Kenny Tang, associate director at Tung
Tai Securities.


He said that buying interest was generally boosted by the strong
performance of US markets in recent days.


The property sub-index closed up 785.85 points or 3.11 percent at
26,047.93, with Cheung Kong up 3.10 at 109.50, Wharf Holdings up
1.15 at 31.15 and Sun Hung Kai Properties up 1.70 at 96.25.


HSBC and China Mobile saw modest profit-taking after recent gains
but dealers said that both counters remain attractive for the
medium to long-term.


HSBC was down 0.20 at 146.90 and China Mobile fell 0.05 to 72.35.


Hang Seng Bank was down 0.20 at 112.90 and Bank of East Asia was
down 0.10 at 47.35, while BOC Hong Kong was up 0.12 at 19.56.


PetroChina was higher after confirming a major oil find in Bohai
Bay. The Jidong field in Bohai has reserves of more than 1.0
billion metric tons of oil equivalent, one of the biggest
discoveries in China in over 30 years.


PetroChina closed up 1.24 or 13.9 percent at 10.16.


The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index closed up 249.23 points or
2.46 percent at 10,383.63.

