

Gunmen attacked a local radio station in west Baghdad killing two
employees and halting transmission, in the latest attack on
Iraq's media, an official in the defence ministry said Friday.


Dozens of gunmen assaulted the independent Radio Dijla in the
Jamia neighbourhood on Thursday and shot four technicians, two of
them fatally.


The electric generator operator and a security guard were shot
dead outside the building, before the gunmen entered the premises
and sprayed the area with gunfire, wounding two other technicians
before leaving.


As they left, the gunmen fired a rocket propelled grenade into
the building seriously damaging the equipment and cutting
transmission.


Acting station director Karim Yussef told the New York-based
Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ) that the attack had been
preceded by an early morning kidnapping attempt against several
radio employees.


"As horrific as this assault is, attacks on Iraqi journalists
happen regularly. This attack underscores the unending dangers
for the press in Iraq," Joel Simon, CPJ executive director, said
in a statement.


Located in the mostly Sunni western half of the city, an area
rife with insurgents, Radio Dijla has been attacked several
times. News editor Nabil Ibrahim al-Dulaimi was murdered in
December.


Several broadcasters and employees of the station have been
kidnapped.


At least 158 journalists and media professionals, the vast
majority of them Iraqis, have been killed in Iraq since the US
invasion of March 2003.


Just on Sunday, Amal al-Muderas, a popular newsreader on state
television was shot and wounded near her home, also in western
Baghdad.

