

Temperatures soared in Beijing with the mercury hitting 31.9
degrees (89.4 degrees Fahrenheit), the highest in 40 years, state
press reported Friday, as fears of global warming were further
stoked.


Following unseasonably high temperatures in late April, the
mercury set a 40-year record for May 3 in the capital, the
Beijing Morning Post reported, citing the city's meteorological
bureau.


"The high temperature comes against the backdrop of global
warming and as warm air has amassed over the city due to a period
of bright sunlight and small winds," the paper said.


The record temperatures came as more than 1,000 firefighters
spent Thursday night and Friday morning trying to put out a
forest fire in a western Beijing nature reserve that covered up
to 5,000 square metres (53,800 square feet) of mountainous area,
the Beijing News reported.


An investigation into the blaze is ongoing, the report said, as
the skies over the capital turned a smoggy grey due to the
inferno which was still smouldering.


Thursday's record high temperature follows the warmest winter on
record in Beijing this year, when temperatures rose to 16 degrees
Celsius in early February, far above the normal average of around
freezing.


"In January and February, Beijing experienced its highest
temperatures in 167 years," Guo Hu, head of the Beijing Municipal
Observatory said earlier this year.


"Beijing has basically seen warmer winters from the late 1980s.
This is due to the influence of global warming."


Northeastern China and the Himalayan region of Tibet also
witnessed abnormally high temperatures during the winter months,
which were the warmest in both regions for decades.

