

The head of Scotland's nationalists was elected to the Scottish
Parliament with a slim majority Friday, as early results
suggested a swing away from the governing Labour Party.


Scottish National Party (SNP) leader Alex Salmond ousted the
sitting Liberal Democrat lawmaker in the constituency of Gordon,
north-east Scotland, by a margin of 2,062 votes.


Elsewhere, the SNP took seats off the governing Labour Party in
Dundee West and Central Fife, which are both in the backyard of
Britain's likely next prime minister, Chancellor of the Exchequer
Gordon Brown.


As results trickled in, Salmond, 52, predicted in his victory
speech that Labour would suffer its lowest share of the vote
since 1922, striking a blow to support in its traditional
heartland.


"There's a wind of change blowing through Scottish politics.
That's evident from the results that we've seen so far," he said.


Labour, which trailed the SNP in the pre-election polling, could
no longer count on its Scottish grassroots bedrock and voters
were not put off by scaremongering by its leaders or Labour-
supporting newspapers, he added.


Prime Minister Tony Blair and Brown have both repeatedly warned
that nationalist plans for independence from England and Wales
would destabilise Scotland economically and hit individual Scots
hard in the pocket.


The SNP, which campaigned hard on opposition to the Iraq war and
Blair's waning popularity, want to publish plans for a referendum
on independence within 100 days of coming to power in Edinburgh,
with a vote by 2010.


But with a coalition likely, all depends on the nationalists
being able to strike a deal with other parties if they become the
largest party in the devolved assembly, which has limited powers
in areas like health and education.


Earlier, Scottish Labour leader Jack McConnell was re-elected to
his constituency in Motherwell and Wishaw, near the western
Scottish city of Glasgow.


Full results were not expected until later Friday.

