

Dutch bank ABN Amro said Friday that it is working constructively
with a three- bank consortium proposing a rival bid following a
court ruling that dealt a serious blow to the bank's takeover
deal with Barclays.


Refusing to comment on media reports that ABN Amro and the
consortium, led by Royal Bank of Scotland, would meet for talks
Friday, ABN Amro spokesman Neil Moorhouse said the bank is
working with the banks "in a constructive and collaborative
manner".


Following calls for ABN Amro chairman Rijkman Groenink to step
down following the legal blow to his plans for a takeover by
Barclays, the Dutch lender stressed that "a change in management
was not considered".


ABN management has agreed to a 67-billion euro (91-billion
dollar) deal with Barclays that includes a provision to sell US
unit LaSalle Bank to Bank of America before the completion of the
takeover.


The consortium has said it would offer 72 billion euros but wants
LaSalle to remain in the ABN Amro group.


Any takeover of ABN Amro, by the consortium or Barclays, is set
to be the biggest banking merger in history.


On Thursday a Dutch court froze the sale of LaSalle saying the
shareholders should be allowed to vote on it first.


The Dutch court case was brought by the Dutch VEB association of
shareholders which insisted that shareholders be allowed to vote
on the sale.


Many shareholders prefer the offer of the consortium which is
higher and partly in cash, whereas the Barclay's offer is a share
swap.


ABN Amro said Friday that the management board considered the
plan to sell LaSalle to Bank of America and agree to a takeover
by Barclays was "the best decision under the circumstances,
therefore a change in management was not considered".

