

The Australian government said Friday it would pay any fine
incurred if the country's world champion cricketers cancel a tour
of Zimbabwe later this year for political reasons.


Prime Minister John Howard, a strong critic of the regime of
President Robert Mugabe, said it would be unfair for Cricket
Australia to have to pay a fine of up to 1.6 million US dollars
to the International Cricket Council.


Australia, who wrapped up a third successive World Cup victory in
the Caribbean last week, are due to play three one-day
internationals in the troubled southern African nation in
September.


But Foreign Minister Alexander Downer has long made it clear the
government wants to scrap the tour.


"I will be having and Alexander Downer will be having further
discussions with Cricket Australia because the situation in
Zimbabwe has deteriorated very badly," Howard told Australian
radio.


"In the end, foreign policy decisions have got to be taken by
governments and the situation in Zimbabwe is quite unacceptable.


"We would indemnify Cricket Australia for any compensation it
might have to pay to the international body. It would not be fair
to visit the cost of a foreign policy decision on a sporting
body."


Howard said players should be consulted on the issue but the
government would make the final decision on whether the tour
should proceed.


Mugabe's regime has drawn international criticism over its brutal
crushing of dissent last month as the country spirals into
economic meltdown, with inflation running at more than 2,000
percent.

