

Republican White House hopefuls had bad news for Arnold
Schwarzenegger Thursday, overwhelmingly opposing any bid to
change the US constitution so the Austrian- born tough guy could
run for president.


Candidates did their bit to terminate the California governor's
hopes of embarking on his own presidential run one day, at their
first debate of the 2008 campaign.


Only two of the 10 candidates, former New York mayor Rudolph
Giuliani and ex- governor of Arkansas Mike Huckabee said they
would be firmly in favor of a move to allow foreign-born US
citizens to become president.


One of the frontrunners, Senator John McCain said he would have
to consider the move but added: "Depends whether he endorses me
or not."


Former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney, was a "no."


"With Arnold sitting there, I'll give it some thought, but
probably not," he said at the debate at the Ronald Reagan
presidential library in California.


Giuliani joked that he was "afraid" of the action-hero turned
Republican politician, while Huckabee quipped that he would be
happy to change the constitution -- once he had served two terms
as president.


"Intimidating as he might be, I'm saying no," chimed in Colorado
congressman Tom Tancredo.


A move to amend the constitution requires the backing of two
thirds of the US House of Representatives and two thirds of the
US Senate to pass and must then be ratified by three quarters, or
38, of the 50 US states.


Other candidates in the debate included, former Virginia governor
Jim Gilmore, Senator Sam Brownback, former Wisconsin governor
Tommy Thompson and congressmen Ron Paul and Duncan Hunter.

