

Sugar producing countries have rejected the European Union's plan
to cut preferential prices for their exports to Europe.


Sugar exporting members of the African, Caribbean and Pacific
(ACP) countries -- mostly former colonies of EU nations -- met in
Fiji this week to draw up a response to the EU's reform
proposals.


To comply with World Trade Organisation (WTO) rules, the EU wants
to reform the sugar protocol and slash preferred prices,
currently about three times world market levels, paid to ACP
countries by 36 percent over the next three years.


The chairman of the ACP meeting, Mauritius Sugar Minister Arvin
Boolell said Thursday the EU's plans "sent shivers down our
spine.


"We have to make sure that under no circumstances should the
sanctity of the sugar protocol be put at risk," Boolell told
reporters at the end of the 4-day meeting.


"They (the EU) have legal, political and historical obligations
(that) they have to honour and have to comply with."


The ACP countries argue their economies are too fragile to
withstand a sharp fall in sugar prices offered by the EU, which
has offered funds to help the affected countries' sugar
industries become more competitive.


The EU also wants to set up economic partnership agreements (EPA)
with the ACP countries, which would reduce trade and investment
barriers in most products.


The ACP countries said the EU had promised no ACP country would
be worse off under the EPAs than under previous trade deals.


But Irish economist Dr Stephen Thornhill, in a study commissioned
by the ACP countries, said they would be better off if the sugar
protocol was retained as part of any EPA deal, rather than being
replaced by it.

