

Australian share prices jumped 0.95 percent to another record
close Friday, driven by strength in the resources sector and an
easing of the central bank's inflation expectations, dealers
said.


They said the central bank's decision to lower its inflation
forecasts gave sentiment a boost, reducing concerns that a robust
economy could require more interest rate hikes to keep prices in
check.


The miners once again were the main focus, chalking up more
gains.


The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 ended up 59.3 points at a record
6,304.9, surpassing Thursday's record finish, while the broader
All Ordinaries climbed 59.3 points to reach an all-time high of
6,296.2.


Turnover was 1.59 billion shares worth 5.65 billion dollars (4.66
billion US), with 751 stocks up, 494 down and 386 unchanged.


CMC Markets analyst David Land said the materials and energy
sectors were clearly the leaders on the day, with the large
miners moving full steam ahead.


"They have a strong run at the moment, with a particularly strong
run out of BHP and Rio," he said.


"We have seen a bit more of a mixed day (in) the big banks, so
even without that support it still managed to push the market
well ahead."


Macquarie Asset Management private client advisor Joseph Youssef
said that the Reserve Bank of Australia lowering of its inflation
outlook for 2007, reduced the prospect of interest rate rises
this year.


"The interest rate outlook certainly helped the market though it
is really Rio that has stood out --it's been exceptionally
strong," Youssef said.


Rio Tinto rose sharply, adding 3.82 or 4.60 percent to 86.85
while BHP Billiton shares put on 0.71 or 2.38 percent to 30.60.


Flag carrier Qantas rose just 0.01 at 5.38 ahead of a 0900 GMT
Friday deadline for a Macquarie Bank-led consortium's offer for
the airline to get a minimum 50 percent acceptances.


National Australia Bank advanced 0.12 to 44.12, Commonwealth Bank
rose 0.45 to 54.30, Westpac gained 0.08 to 27.28 while ANZ
slipped 0.01 to 30.73.


Telstra added 0.02 to 4.86 while Optus-owner SingTel gained 0.02
to 2.78.

