

A bid by a private equity group for Australia's Qantas Airways
hung in the balance Friday, with shareholder acceptances edging
up just hours before the offer was due to close.


Airline Partners Australia (APA) consortium said acceptances for
its 11.1 billion dollar (9.2 billion US) bid had reached 36.03
percent by mid-morning, up from 32.92 percent Thursday.


The offer will expire at 7:00 pm (0900 GMT) unless APA gains
acceptances for at least 50 percent of the company's issued
capital.


If that threashold is reached, the offer will automatically be
extended for 14 days, giving the consortium the chance to gain
the 70 percent needed for the bid to succeed.


An APA spokesman said no announcement on whether the consortium
had reached 50 percent was planned for Friday because shareholder
votes had to be tallied once the deadline passed.


He said APA intended to make a statement over the weekend and had
to update the Australian Stock Exchange before the opening bell
Monday on the status of the bid, the biggest ever offer for an
airline company globally.


Deutsche Bank analyst Jason Bloom said the APA was likely to meet
the 50 percent threshold.


"I wouldn't say I'm confident, you can never be confident about
anything to do with this, but I'd say their chances of success
are 75 percent," he said.


"I think they'll get the two-week extension and then reach the 70
percent they need."


Bloom said many Qantas shareholders had been late to accept the
offer because they were biding their time, watching developments
in a booming aviation sector.


"It's a sector that has been extensively upgraded in the last few
months and as a result, what was initially a very generous offer
for Qantas now appears pretty ordinary to some people.


"I think it's still a good offer; aviation is a cyclical industry
and just because we're in the midst of an upturn now doesn't mean
the good times are going to last forever. It's very volatile and
things can change quickly."


The offer has been recommended by the Qantas board.


The APA consortium comprises Australian companies Macquarie Bank
Ltd, Allco Finance Group Ltd and Allco Equitypartners, as well as
US buyout firm Texas Pacific Group and Canada's Onex Corp.


Qantas shares closed up one cent to 5.38 dollars, still seven
cents short of APA's 5.45 dollars offer.


BBY aviation analyst Fabian Babich expected the consortium to
succeed in winning an extension but warned it could be a "photo-
finish".


He said a late rush of acceptances was normal in such takeovers
and had been exacerbated by the influence of hedge funds, which
he said hold about 25 percent of Qantas shares and wanted to keep
the offer open as long as possible.


"The driver of the outcome today will be the hedge funds," he
said.


"It is in their interest to see APA have more than 50 percent by
the end of today but as far away from 70 percent as possible.


"They, as a group, want to be able continue what they've been
doing for at least a couple of weeks -- that is stand in the
market and buy shares that other shareholders are prepared to
sell rather than wait and accept the offer."


Babich said volumes of Qantas shares trading on the Australian
Stock Exchange have been exceedingly large this week as hedge
funds snapped up the stock from investors unwilling to take the
risk that the APA offer will lapse.

