

Oil prices were firmer in Asian trade Friday as investors
pondered a rash of kidnappings in African oil producer Nigeria
and declining US gasoline (petrol) inventories, dealers said.


At 3:00 pm (0700 GMT), New York's main oil futures contract,
light sweet crude for delivery in June, was up seven cents to
63.26 dollars a barrel from 63.19 dollars in late US trades.


Brent North Sea crude for June was up 22 cents to 66.27 dollars.


"Today it's still sideways trading, there's some volatility,"
said Victor Shum, an analyst with energy consultancy Purvin and
Gertz in Singapore.


Investors are monitoring the latest developments in Nigeria,
Africa's biggest oil exporter, where armed men abducted at least
20 foreigners in three separate incidents, dealers said.


The attacks, less than two weeks after presidential elections
marred by violence and widespread allegations of fraud, followed
another kidnapping Tuesday in which six expatriates were seized.


Nigeria is the world's sixth-biggest oil exporter but its output
is being severely hit by frequent kidnappings of foreign oil
workers and attacks on pipelines.


Dealers said US gasoline stockpiles remain in focus ahead of the
US holiday driving season, which starts later this month.


US gasoline reserves fell 1.1 million barrels to 193.1 million
last week and are down 34.1 million barrels or 15 percent since
early February.


"In the short-term, the US gasoline market will continue to
underpin (prices)," Shum said.


"There is some market expectation that US refinery operating
rates will increase and the tightness in the gasoline market will
be relieved."


A US government announcement Wednesday that it would halt buying
crude for its strategic petroleum reserve (SPR), possibly for
several months, could put downward pressure on prices, Shum said.

