

A 55-year-old American convict was executed in an Alabama prison
Thursday for stabbing a couple to death with a kitchen knife in
1978, a state prisons spokesman said.


Aaron Lee Jones, who refused to make a final statement, was
declared dead at 2229 GMT after receiving a lethal injection in
Holman prison in Atmore, said Alabama Department of Corrections
spokesman Brian Corbett.


After drinking rum and beer one evening in November 1978, Jones
accompanied a friend, Arthur Lee Giles, who wanted to punish a
man who owed him money.


Giles fired a gun at the man as well as his wife, daughter and
two sons. Jones picked up a kitchen knife and stabbed the mother,
Willene Nelson, 29 times and the father, Carl Nelson, eight
times.


The two attackers scoured the home for the money but never found
it. After they left, the oldest son took his two siblings to the
hospital.


The three children survived and testified at the trial against
the two men, who were sentenced to death.


Giles is on death row in Alabama but no date has been set for his
execution.


Jones is the 16th convict executed this year in the United
States, where more than 3,300 inmates are on death row.


Several US states have suspended death sentence executions as
debate grows as to whether the three-drug cocktail administered
to most condemned men violates the constitutional ban on "cruel
and unusual punishments."


Rights groups and medical advocates say the procedure is not
scientific, often faulty and may result in an agonizing end to
life.

