

Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki called on neighbouring
countries Friday to provide increased security cooperation and to
prevent foreign fighters from entering Iraq.


"We will not allow terrorist organisations to consider the Iraqi
territories a safe heaven," Maliki told participants at a
conference on Iraq's security at the Egyptian Red Sea resort of
Sharm el-Sheikh.


We "call on the countries of the region to stop terrorist groups
from entering Iraq and to prevent them from having access to
finance or giving them political and media attention," he said.


Taking part in the expanded neighbours' conference in the
Egyptian resort of Sharm el-Sheikh were Iran, Syria, Saudi
Arabia, the United States, European Union and United Nations, as
well as other key players.


"What our brothers and friends can do is to offer loyal, clean
and unbiased support," Maliki said.


He urged the world not to consider Iraq "a battlefield where
countries settle scores," he said.


On the first day of the conference Thursday, US Secretary of
State Condoleezza Rice had rare encounters with old foes Syria
and Iran, marking a shift in Washington's long boycott of direct
contacts with the two nations.


The United States has repeatedly accused Syria and Iran of
fuelling Iraq's spiralling communal conflict by funding and
abetting the Sunni Arab insurgency and hardline Shiite militias
respectively. Damascus and Tehran deny the accusations.


The two-day conference was expected to wrap up later Friday with
a commitment from Iraq's neighbours to help end the four-year-old
bloodshed.

