

Nigerian authorities have contacted the kidnappers of three South
Koreans and eight Filipinos working for a South Korean
construction firm, the foreign ministry in Seoul said Friday.


"A meeting has been held between the Nigerian state government
and the kidnappers," a ministry official said.


The official said Thursday's meeting between officials from the
Rivers State government and the kidnappers produced no results
and they agreed to meet again.


The three South Korean executives and eight Filipino labourers
with Daewoo Engineering and Construction were seized Thursday
after a shootout at a power plant construction site in the south
of the country.


A Nigerian driver, who was also abducted but later released, told
the authorities that the Koreans and Filipinos had not been
harmed.


The identity of the group responsible for the kidnapping remains
unknown despite the start of negotiations, the Seoul official
told Yonhap news agency.


"We have once again confirmed the safety of our workers," he
said, adding he was unaware of any specific demands in return for
a release.


The Koreans and Filipinos were among 26 foreigners seized on land
or sea in Africa's biggest oil-producing nation since Tuesday.
Eight of them were later released.


Daewoo said it was temporarily closing the construction site and
had evacuated 135 Daewoo employees and 60 Filipino workers after
the kidnapping, the third involving Koreans in Nigeria less than
a year.


Nine Daewoo workers were taken hostage in January but later
released unharmed. Three Daewoo officials and two from South
Korea's state-owned gas corporation were abducted in June last
year but later freed.

