

The Utah Jazz made sure they will play at least one more game in
the National Basketball Association playoffs on Thursday, a feat
the top-seeded Dallas Mavericks were hoping to match.


Carlos Boozer scored 22 points and Mehmet Okur added 14 of his 19
in the second half as the Jazz tied their Western Conference
first-round series against the Houston Rockets at three games
each with a 94-82 victory in Salt Lake City.


Later in Oakland, the Mavericks battled for their playoff lives
against upset- minded Golden State, who took a 3-2 lead into
their game six.


Deron Williams had 15 points and eight assists and Andrei
Kirilenko added 14 points and five blocks for the Jazz, who play
game seven in Houston on Saturday.


Each team has won three games on its home court.


Utah led 68-62 entering the final period, but two free throws by
Tracy McGrady narrowed the edge to 77-76 with 4:45 left.


However the Jazz went on an 11-2 run, capped by Okur's fourth
3-pointer with 2:08 remaining, to open a double-digit lead.


Boozer, who shot 9-of-16 from the field and grabbed nine
rebounds, scored seven points in the quarter.


The Jazz, who lost in the first round of their last three playoff
appearances, received a big game from Okur, who had struggled in
the previous five games.


Okur, an All-Star this season, had just five points as Utah took
a 46-43 lead at halftime. The Turkish center came out more
agressive after the break and scored nine points in the third
period.


His 3-pointer with 5:37 left in the period provided a 65-54 lead.


Okur, who connected on 5-off-11 shots, including 4-of-7 from
3-point range, had been averaging just 8.4 points and shooting 29
percent in the first five games of the series. He averaged 17.6
points in the regular season.


McGrady finished with 26 points and 10 rebounds and Yao Ming
added 25 points but eight turnovers for the Rockets, who have not
advanced to the Western Conference semi-finals since 1997.


Rafer Alston had 13 points for the Rockets, who shot 43 percent
but just 6-of-21 from 3-point range.

