

He may have had difficulty finding his way home in "Finding
Nemo", but the white and orange clownfish generally finds its way
back to its parents after being swept out to sea, new research
has found.


A team of Australian, American and French scientists studying
pristine coral reefs in Papua New Guinea found that 60 percent of
clownfish journeyed back to their tiny home reef after being
swept out to the ocean as babies.


Researcher Glenn Almany said it was not known how far the baby
clownfish travelled before they trekked home, but that they
generally spent 11 days away from their reef before returning.


"Sixty percent of the juveniles that we found were actually
produced by the parents on that reef," he told AFP of the study
of some 300 female clownfish and vagabond butterflyfish.


"Forty percent of those juveniles had come from somewhere else --
and that somewhere else is at least 10 kilometres (six miles)
away.


"What that suggests is that populations are connected to each
other."


Almany, of Australia's James Cook University, said the tagging
technique behind the discovery could revolutionise the management
of coral reefs and help restore threatened fish stocks.


The scientists injected female fish with a trace of a harmless
isotope which finds its way into their eggs, and can later be
observed in the baby fish.


The team's findings, published in the latest edition of the
international journal Science, could help improve the
understanding of how fish larvae disperse and therefore enable
better design of marine protected areas, he said.


The team is currently working on the Indonesian island of Bali to
develop a tag for coral trout, a species overfished in some
waters.


"Tagging would help you to select the right reefs to protect, in
order to maintain the overall population -- and the fish catch
into the future," Almany said.

