

Results were coming in Friday for elections held the day before
for the Scottish Parliament, Welsh Assembly, all municipal
councils in Scotland and some in England.


Here are some key facts about the votes:


-- Scottish Parliament


Voting was held in all 73 single-member constituencies and eight
parliamentary regions to elect the 129 members of the Scottish
parliament (MSPs).


Seventy-three MSPs were elected by the first-past-the-post
system. The 56 others -- seven for each region -- were elected by
the additional member system, a form of proportional
representation.


Result at 2003 election: Labour (50 seats); Scottish National
Party (27); Conservative Party (18); Liberal Democrats (17);
Greens (7); Scottish Socialists (6); Scottish Senior Citizens
Unity Party (1); independents (3).


Turnout in 2003: 49.4 percent, down from 59 percent in 1999.


-- Scottish councils


All 1,222 seats were up for grabs on each of Scotland's 32
municipal councils, which provide local services and facilities
in their areas.


The single transferable voting system, a form of proportional
representation, was being used for the first time in Scotland.


Votes for both the Scottish parliament and councils were counted
electronically.


Turnout in 2003: 49.8 percent


-- Welsh Assembly


All 60 seats for the assembly in Cardiff were up for grabs: 40
constituency seats and four for each of Wales's five regions.


Single-member constituency seats were elected by the first-past-
the-post system; the regional seats used the additional member
system.


The outgoing assembly: Labour (29); Plaid Cymru (12);
Conservative Party (11); Liberal Democrats (6); others (2).


Turnout in 2003: 38 percent, down from 46 percent in 1999.


-- English councils


About 10,500 seats across 312 local authorities were being
contested. Half of these seats were in eastern, southern and
south-west England.


Either a third of an individual council's seats or the whole
council was contested.


Voting was by the first-past-the-post system.


Three council areas held elections for mayor at the same time.

