

The Anaheim Ducks booked their second straight trip to the
National Hockey League's Western Conference finals Thursday with
a double-overtime victory over the Vancouver Canucks.


Scott Niedermayer scored 4 1/2 minutes into the second extra
period, giving the Ducks a 2-1 victory and a four-games-to-one
triumph in their best-of-seven second-round series.


The Ducks, who advanced to the conference finals for the third
time in four seasons, await the winner of the series between
Detroit and San Jose. The Red Wings and Sharks currently are even
at two games apiece.


With grinders Brad May and Shawn Thornton working tirelessly to
keep the puck in the offensive zone, Vancouver finally appeared
ready to break up ice.  But with his head down, rookie Jannik
Hansen was steamrolled by Rob Niedermayer along the left wing
boards, allowing the puck to slide toward the blue line.


At the left point, Scott Niedermayer wristed a shot that sneaked
past goaltender Roberto Luongo and just inside the right
goalpost, sending the Ducks and the capacity crowd at the Honda
Center into a frenzy.


It was the 20th career playoff goal for Scott Niedermayer, who
earlier in the week was named a finalist for the Norris Trophy
along with teammate Chris Pronger and Detroit's Nicklas Lidstrom.


Luongo, who appeared distracted as Scott Niedermayer let go his
shot, did his best to extend Vancouver's season, making 56 saves
- including 21 in the second period. However, the Hart and Vezina
Trophy finalist had an equipment problem just before the start of
the first overtime, forcing backup Dany Sabourin to start the
extra session and make five saves in just over 3 1/2 minutes of
action.


Giguere made 26 saves in improving his lifetime postseason
overtime record to 10-1 for Anaheim, which improved to 5-1 at
home in this year's playoffs.

