

Organisers called off a car rally involving celebrities and
millionaires Thursday evening after two British drivers were
arrested in Macedonia accused of being involved in a crash that
claimed the life of a local man.


Nicholas Morley and Matthew McConville, who were participants in
the cross- border "Gumball 3000" rally, were detained at
Macedonia's border with Albania late on Wednesday, a police
spokesman told AFP.


Morley was the driver of a turbo Porsche 911 that had allegedly
collided with a local car earlier the same evening, killing
Vladimir Cepuloski, 67, and seriously injuring his wife near the
southern town of Struga.


McConville was being held on suspicion of having tried to help
Morley flee the former Yugoslav republic.


Following the news, rally organisers said that the event had been
closed in Bratislava a day early because of the accident.


"As a sign of respect we have decided that this year's Gumball
3000 Rally will not travel any further and will end in Bratislava
this evening," said Maximillion Cooper, the rally's founder, in a
statement.


"As the organisers of the rally we feel that it should be stopped
as a mark of respect to Vladimir Cepulyoski who died today after
an accident involving one of the participating drivers."


The statement added: "This is the first time anything like this
has happened in nine years of travelling through over 40
countries with thousands of drivers and it is with deep regret
that I make this announcement."


Other participants in the Gumball rally included British
celebrities such as the actor Orlando Bloom, best-known for his
role in "Lord of the Rings," and Jay Kay, the lead singer of the
pop group Jamiroquai.


The rally, which involved some 180 luxury cars, had entered
Macedonia from Greece and was travelling towards Albania when the
accident occurred.

