

India should maintain massive troop levels in its part of divided
Kashmir even though the daily death toll from a Muslim insurgency
has fallen to an all-time low, a senior official said Friday.


"The daily rate of killings of civilians, security personnel and
militants has dropped from 10 in 2002 to three in 2006 (and) two
a day lately," Jammu and Kashmir state governor Sriniwas Kumar
Sinha said in a statement.


Police officials told AFP that the current average daily toll was
the lowest since the start of the Muslim revolt against Indian
rule in 1989.


The governor said the security situation in Kashmir, which is
divided between India and Pakistan, was improving -- but asserted
"the guard cannot be lowered as the threat of violence
continues."


"Once peace returns in the state, the forces can return back to
their barracks," he said.


India has an estimated half a million troops and paramilitary
soldiers in Kashmir, the cause of two of the three wars between
India and Pakistan since their 1947 independence from the
British.


With violence down thanks to a peace process between the South
Asian rivals, Pakistan and separatists have linked the region's
demilitarisation to lasting peace.


But India's army opposes an early withdrawal of troops, saying
this could help the rebels whom it says operate with Pakistan's
support. Islamabad denies the charge.


According to official figures, the insurgency has left more than
42,000 people dead. Human rights groups put the toll at 70,000,
including 10,000 people who have disappeared since 1989 and are
presumed dead.

