

Sri Lanka's national carrier announced Friday it was halting
night flights in and out of the island's only international
airport with immediate affect amid fears of more nocturnal Tamil
Tiger raids.


The decision came the day after officials said airlines had to
stop night operations by May 10, when Bandaranaike International
Airport near Colombo will limit its hours to between 4:30 am
(2200 GMT) and 10:30 pm (1700 GMT).


SriLankan Airlines, which is partly owned and fully managed by
Emirates airlines of Dubai, said its newly scheduled flights
would operate well within that window.


"The safety of our passengers, crew and aircraft is our prime
concern and one that we will not compromise under any
circumstances," SriLankan Chief Executive Peter Hill said.


The airport shares a runway with the Sri Lankan Air Force, the
target of the first ever Tiger air raid on March 26.


Another attack a week ago also saw the flying Tigers again cross
international flight paths, and several passenger jets had to be
diverted to the southern Indian city of Chennai.


Emirates and Singapore Airlines have also already switched to
daytime flying, while Hong Kong's Cathay Pacific has totally
suspended its services to Sri Lanka.


Western nations have asked their nationals to avoid non-essential
travel to Sri Lanka.


The rebels, who have been fighting for a separate homeland in the
north and east of the island since 1972, are believed to be
operating five Czech-built Zlin-143 light aircraft smuggled onto
the island in pieces and re-assembled.


Sri Lanka's military has set up anti-aircraft guns at key
locations in Colombo and elsewhere.

