

American John Hopkins was in blistering form at MotoGP practice
on Friday, as he put in the fastest lap of the day to make him
one of the early favourites at the Grand Prix of China.


The Suzuki rider clocked a time of 2min 01.204 sec in the closing
minutes of the classification to squeeze out Italian standout
Marcos Melandri in a Honda by 0.99 seconds with Spain's Dani
Pedrosa, also on a Honda, coming third.


The Californian, whose riding style is suited to Shanghai's long
straights and sweeping corners, has been in strong form early in
the 2007 season, finishing fourth in Qatar and sixth in Turkey
two weeks ago.


"The last couple of tracks have proved we can run in front,"
Hopkins told reporters at a media conference late Thursday.


Hopkins, who had his best season last year in MotoGP with his
Suzuki team, scored fourth in Shanghai in 2006 after qualifying
second and said he was looking forward to Sunday's race.


"I like this track," said the 23-year-old.


Meanwhile, Melandri, who was 2005 MotoGP runner-up, roared into
action late in the hour-long afternoon practice to overtake
leader Pedrosa, last year's race winner here and the circuit's
fastest lap record holder.


Current world champion American Nicky Hayden, on a Honda, was
fourth; Italian Loris Capirossi fifth on a Ducati, while his
charismatic countryman and seven- time world champion Valentino
Rossi was sixth on a Yamaha.


Ducati factory motorbikes proved fastest in top line speed,
however, with Brazilian Alex Barros clocking a top average speed
of 327.5 kilometres (203 miles) an hour and Australia's Casey
Stoner, the current standings leaders, averaging 325.6.


In the switch from 990cc motorcycles to 800cc engines for the
2007 season, only Honda has been able to rival Ducati's top line
speed that has made Stoner one of the hot favourites in Shanghai.


However, Stoner, who has won two of three races in 2007 season,
fell back to eighth after leading the morning classification.

