

Climate change experts meeting at a crucial UN conference here
have agreed on measures needed to combat global warming, with the
report to be formally approved later Friday, a French delegate
told AFP.


"It is over. The report has been accepted. The formal adoption
will take place in the morning," Marc Gillet, the French
delegation head, said following a marathon session of talks that
finished around 4:30 am (2130 GMT Thursday).


Scientists and experts from 120 nations gathered under the
umbrella of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the
UN's leading body on global warming, in Bangkok on Monday to
discuss how to tackle climate change.


Their report will be the third to be delivered by the IPCC this
year, after the first two looked into the evidence and likely
devastating impacts of global warming.


Gillet and other sources at the talks said the IPCC delegates
would reconvene at 10:00 am (0300) GMT on Friday to approve the
report.


The IPCC is scheduled to publicly release the report at 1:00 pm
(0600 GMT) on Friday, officials said previously.


A draft summary seen by AFP calls for a greater use of renewable
energies such as solar, wind, and hydro-power, as well as ways to
use energy more efficiently.


Storing carbon dioxide, the biggest greenhouse gas, underground
was also under consideration, as were tariffs and other economic
mechanisms to make using fossil fuels more expensive and
renewable energies much cheaper.


However, the text was the subject of intense debate all week and
details of the final report were not immediately available.

