

Republican presidential hopefuls lambasted Iran in their first
head-to-head debate Thursday, with the Islamic Republic accused
of launching a "nightmare" quest for nuclear weapons.


One of the party frontrunners, Senator John McCain, accused Iran
of sending lethal bomb making equipment, jihadists and suicide
bombers into Iraq and killing US soldiers.


"Iran is a state sponsor of terrorism. We all know that. Iran
continues their efforts to build nuclear weapons," McCain said in
the debate among 10 candidates gathered at the Ronald Reagan
presidential library.


"My greatest fear is the Iranians acquire a nuclear weapon and
give it to a terrorist organization and there is a real threat of
them doing that," said McCain, who also called for a more intense
US diplomacy to end the showdown.


Former New York mayor Rudolph Giuliani, who leads opinion polls
of the Republican race, admitted that the use of force against
Tehran would be "very dangerous" but not as dangerous as a
nuclear-armed Iran, and took a swipe at President Mahmoud
Ahmadinejad.


"It's the worst nightmare of the Cold War isn't it? The nuclear
weapons in the hands of an irrational person, an irrational
force," said Giuliani.


"Ahmadinejad is clearly irrational."


Colorado congressman Tom Tancredo, a long-shot candidate, warned
that Iran was led "by a gentleman who believes that he is going
to be responsible for the coming of the 12th imam and a guy with
a bomb.


"That should put us in the position of saying that anything we
can do to stop that is imperative."


Ahmadinejad on Wednesday said Iran would not yield "an inch" on
its nuclear programme despite the reopening of talks with the
European Union to find a solution to the standoff.


The United States accuses Iran of seeking nuclear weapons but
Tehran insists that it wants only to produce energy for a growing
population.

