

EMI, the troubled British music publisher, said on Friday that
the company has received a number of takeover approaches, but did
not name the interested parties.


The Financial Times reported Friday that One Equity Partners,
which is affiliated to US investment bank JP Morgan Chase, wanted
to buy EMI for about 3.0 billion pounds (4.4 billion euros, 6.0
billion dollars).


"Further to recent speculation, EMI Group plc confirms that it
has received a number of preliminary indications of interest to
acquire the company," EMI said in a brief statement to the London
Stock Exchange.


"There can be no certainty that any offer will ultimately be
made."


In reaction, EMI's share price jumped 7.91 percent to 245.5 pence
in early morning trade. London's second-tier FTSE 250 index, on
which the company is listed, rose 0.26 percent to 12,077.70
points.


The publisher, which has issued two profit warnings since the
start of 2007, had in March rejected a 2.08-billion-pound
approach from US rival Warner Music Group, with which it has been
in sporadic takeover talks since 2000.


Last month EMI, which is struggling with sliding sales in the
United States, said that it will pay no more shareholder
dividends until 2009.


The British group had also unveiled long-awaited plans to borrow
against its back catalogue of hit songs by artists including The
Beatles and Coldplay.


EMI is the world's third-biggest music company with other big
names including Gorillaz, Madonna, Radiohead and Robbie Williams.

