

The dollar was mixed in Asian trade Friday on consolidation after
better-than- expected US economic data, easing fears the world's
biggest economy was slowing too fast, dealers said.


They said the market was now waiting for the key US employment
report due later Friday for its next lead on the US economic
outlook.


At 11:30 am (0330 GMT), the dollar was at 120.32 yen, down from
120.41 yen in New York late Thursday.


The euro fell to 1.3538 dollars from 1.3549 and to 162.88 yen
from 163.60.


Markets in Japan were closed Friday and will reopen Monday,
making for a quieter day Friday.


Dealers said players were adjusting positions after better-than-
expected US data and are looking to Friday's US non-farm payrolls
report, seen as one of the best indicators for further clues on
the health of the US economy.


"Today is all about US non-farm payrolls," said Jan Lambregts,
head of Asia research at Dutch lender Rabobank in Hong Kong.


The market is expecting the report to show 100,000 new jobs
created but a weaker figure might lead to a fresh sell-off in the
dollar, dealers said.


US data this week has been generally stronger than expected,
lessening the chances for an early US interest rate cut and so
helping the dollar.


"So far this week, the US data has been better-than-expected and
the dollar has been supported by it," said Thomas Lam, a treasury
economist with Singapore's United Overseas Bank.


The Institute for Supply Management (ISM) reported that the US
service sector expanded at a faster-than-expected rate in April.


The ISM non-manufacturing business index rose to 56.0 from 52.4
in March, higher than the 54.0 economists had expected.


A reading above 50 indicates growth in the sector, while a
reading below 50 indicates contraction. The survey followed a
stronger-than-expected survey on the manufacturing sector from
the ISM.


Another report showed US labor productivity rose 1.7 percent in
the first quarter.

