

South Korea's second largest carmaker Kia Motors Friday announced
a fourth consecutive quarterly loss but denied it is facing any
liquidity problems.


"There is no liquidity trouble, although we have spent more money
on the construction of plants abroad to enhance our
competitiveness," said its president Cho Nam-Hong.


Kia opened its first European plant in December and is building
another plant in the United States.


The company was hit by higher marketing costs amid intense
competition, Cho said, adding a strong won also cut the value of
overseas earnings.


"We will do our best to cut costs and improve profitability," he
said.


The won has appreciated 7.9 percent against the dollar so far
this year. The automaker sells three out of every four cars it
makes overseas.


Earlier this week Hyundai Motor reported a fifth straight
quarterly profit drop as a firmer won cut its overseas sales.
Hyundai and Kia are part of the Hyundai Automotive Group, the
world's sixth largest carmaker.


"The first-quarter loss was unavoidable," Cho told reporters,
saying line relocations disrupted production of its popular
sports utility vehicle the Sorento.


In the first quarter to March Kia sold 271,000 units, down 7.4
percent year-on- year. Exports fell 11.6 percent to 204,000,
while domestic sales rose 8.1 percent to 67,000 units.


The company posted a first-quarter net loss of 30.6 billion won
(33 million dollars) compared to a 38.4 billion won profit a year
earlier. Sales were down 12 percent to 3.85 trillion won.


It registered an operating loss in the quarter of 73.7 billion
won, reversing a profit of 32.2 billion won a year earlier.

