

The US force in Iraq has identified two militants killed this
week alongside a senior Al-Qaeda spokesman as his religious
adviser and an Egyptian volunteer, a statement said Saturday.


On Tuesday, US forces killed "five terrorists" in a clash near
Taji, just north of Baghdad during a hunt for senior Al-Qaeda
figures.


After two days of conflicting reports as to the identity of the
dead, whom the Iraqi government identified as top Al-Qaeda in
Iraq leaders, a US spokesman said on Thursday that one of them
was group spokesman Muharib Abdul Latif.


In a follow up statement on Friday the military added two more
names.


"One of the terrorists killed during the operations was later
positively identified as Sabah Hilal al-Shihawi, also known as
Sabah al-Alwani and Abu Nuri," the statement said.


"Sabah Hilal al-Shihawi was reportedly the religious advisor for
Muharib Abdul Latif. Another terrorist killed during the Tuesday
morning raid was Abu Ammar al-Masri," it said. Al-Masri is Arabic
for "the Egyptian."


"Intelligence reports indicated that he was a foreign fighter
that was facilitating insurgent activity and infrastructure
support for al-Qaeda in Iraq," the statement said.


On Tuesday, the Iraqi interior ministry identified one of the
dead militants as one Abu Ayyub al-Masri, another Egyptian
fighter whom US commanders last year described as the leader of
Al-Qaeda in Iraq.


But on Thursday US spokesman Major General William Caldwell
insisted that American forces would have been able to
"unequivocally" identify this suspect had they found him and had
thus confirmed that he had not been killed.


Al-Qaeda confirmed Abdul Latif's death in an Internet statement.

