

A bid for Australia's Qantas Airways from a private equity group
came down to the wire Friday, with shareholder acceptances edging
up just hours before a crucial deadline.


The Airline Partners Australia (APA) consortium said shareholder
acceptances for its 11.1 billion dollar (9.2 billion US) offer
had reached 36.03 percent by mid- morning, up from 32.92 percent
Thursday.


The offer is due to expire at 7:00 pm (0900 GMT) unless APA has
gained acceptances for at least 50 percent of the company's
issued capital.


If this level is reached, the offer will automatically be
extended for 14 days, giving the consortium the chance to gain
the 70 percent needed for the bid to succeed.


APA has offered 5.45 dollars a share. At mid-morning Qantas
shares were at 5.38 dollars.


BBY aviation analyst Fabian Babich expected the consortium to
succeed in getting the 50 percent acceptances level to keep the
bid alive.


He said a late rush of acceptances was normal in such takeovers
and the effect had been exacerbated by the influence of hedge
funds seeking to benefit from APA's Qantas play.


"It will be a photo-finish but (APA) will get there in the end,"
Babich told AFP.


"The hedge funds will drag it out as long as possible because
they want to snap up as many Qantas shares as they can at 5.25,
5.30 (dollars), knowing that they're going to get 5.45 from APA a
short way down the track.


"That 10 or 15 cents difference represents an annualised return
of 40 percent- plus -- that's a red-hot return."


The offer has been recommended by the Qantas board.


The APA consortium comprises Australian companies Macquarie Bank
Ltd, Allco Finance Group Ltd and Allco Equitypartners, as well as
US buyout firm Texas Pacific Group and Canada's Onex Corp.

