

Six relatives of a congressional candidate were shot dead and
three others wounded in the Philippines early Friday in the
deadliest attack so far in the run-up to elections, police said.


The attack happened on a remote mountainous road in the troubled
northern province of Abra when political rivals opened fire with
automatic weapons on the convoy of Cecille Luna, mayor of
Lagayan.


"We are looking at (the) political aspect because those killed
and wounded are relatives of congressional candidate (Luna),"
said provincial police chief Senior Superintendent Alexander
Pumecha.


Luna, who is running for Congress, was not in the sport utility
vehicle when it was fired upon by a group of gunmen who fled on
foot after the attack, Pumecha added.


Luna said on local television that the vehicle was ambushed
shortly after she left it by men who thought that she was still
inside.


In an interview with ABS-CBN television, Luna said six cousins
and nephews in the van were killed.


Pumecha confirmed that six people were killed and three others
wounded in the attack. All were relatives of Luna, he told
reporters by telephone.


Luna blamed the attack on a political rival, Abra governor
Vicente Valera, who is running against her in the May 14
elections.


"No one would want to kill me but our governor," she said in the
interview.


Another Valera rival, Luis Bersamin and his bodyguard were gunned
down outside a church wedding in Manila before the campaign
started on December 16. Police are still investigating the
killings.


Several dozen people have been killed in the current campaign.
President Gloria Arroyo has deployed the army in certain areas to
prevent more bloodshed.


Just hours before the Abra attack, a candidate for town council
was shot dead by communist insurgents in Daraga town, southeast
of Manila.

