

AFP news calendar


Monday, May 7 to Sunday, June 3:


--------------------------------


Monday, May 7


-------------


ALGIERS: Third International Finance Forum (to 9).


AMMAN: International conference on the reconstruction of Iraq
with 42 countries expected to participate (to 10).


BERLIN: Visit by Polish Foreign Minister Anna Fotyga.


BONN: Experts for parties to UN climate convention hold
conference (to May 18).


BRUSSELS: Meetings of eurozone finance ministers and EU
agriculture ministers.


DILI: Fifteen-day campaign for the run-off of the presidential
election ends.


GENEVA: Meeting of World Meteorological Organisation.


GENEVA: Press conference by UN human rights commissioner Louise
Arbour.


ISLAMABAD: Pakistan's Supreme Judicial Council to hear charges
against the country's top judge


KUALA LUMPUR: Malaysia hosts the second World Halal Forum (and
8).


SEOUL: South Korea and the European Union open talks on
establishing a free- trade agreement (to May 11).


SINGAPORE: Regional aviation officials gather for a conference
(and 8).


STOCKHOLM: Iranian Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki meets
Swedish counterpart.


WASHINGTON: Queen Elizabeth II attends dinner hosted in her
honour by President George W. Bush at the White House.


Tuesday, May 8


---------------


BANGKOK: Thailand and the United States open their annual war
games, the biggest US military exercises in Asia (to 18).


BELFAST: Rival Protestant and Catholic leaders in Belfast
expected to resume power-sharing after a landmark accord.


BRUSSELS: Meeting of European finance ministers (ECOFIN).


CANBERRA: Australian government presents budget.


HANOI: UNICEF executive director Ann Veneman briefs media on
visit to Vietnam on country's progress on children and "One UN
Initiative."


THE HAGUE: Preliminary hearings ahead of a trial at the Special
Tribunal for Sierra Leone of former Liberian leader Charles
Taylor, who faces charges of committing war crimes and crimes
against humanity.


HONG KONG: Government land auction.


ISLAMABAD: Visit by Czech Prime Minister Mirek Topolanek.


LUCKNOW, India: Final round of a month-long seven-phase assembly
poll in Uttar Pradesh, India's largest state.


MADRID: 25th International Drug Enforcement Conference (to 11).


NEW YORK: Time magazine publishes its list of the 200 most
influential people on the planet.


RIYADH: Ministerial meeting of the European Union and Gulf
Cooperation Council to focus on regional security and finalising
a free-trade agreement between the two blocs.


SANAA: Verdict expected in the case of Yemeni tribesmen accused
of kidnapping four French tourists.


TOKYO: Tokyo District Court hands down ruling on former Kimura
Construction Co. president Moriyoshi Kimura in connection with
quake-resistance data fabrication.


Wednesday, May 9


---------------


COPENHAGEN: Swedish King Carl XVI Gustaf, Queen Silvia and Crown
Princess Victoria make a state visit to Denmark (to 11).


DILI: Run-off vote in East Timor's presidential election between
Prime Minister Jose Ramos-Horta and Fretilin chairman Francisco
Guterres.


GENEVA: World Trade Organisation council meeting.


THE HAGUE: Judgement on appeal by former Bosnian Serb colonel
Vidoje Blagojevic, convicted to 18 years' jail for genocide in
2005 for his part in the Srebrenica massacre.


HONG KONG: Start of appeal trial of Chan Nai-ming, the first
person to be jailed for sharing Hollywood films on Bit Torrent
file sharing technology.


LISBON: Fatima pilgrimage with the celebration of the 90th
anniversary of apparitions.


LONDON: "Lord of the Rings" musical unveiled ahead of official
premiere on June 19.


MACAU: Opening of Crown Casino.


MUMBAI: Sentencing due to start for 100 people convicted for
roles in deadly bomb blasts in Mumbai in 1993 that left 257
people dead.


PHNOM PENH: Irish pop singer Ronan Keating to play Phnom Penh's
Olympic Stadium.


SAO PAOLO, Brazil: Visit by Pope Benedict XVI (to 14).


SEOUL: North and South Korea hold another round of face-to-face
reunions for separated families at Mount Kumgang in the North (to
14).


Thursday, May 10


---------------


BANGKOK: Family of Urairat Soimee, a deceased victim of human
trafficking, sues her alleged abductors in the first such civil
case in Thailand.


BEIRUT: Trial resumes of six Lebanese accused of participating in
foiled plot against trains in Germany last year.


DAMASCUS: Verdict in the trial of Kamal Labouani, a Syrian
opposition figure accused of contacts with the United States
meant to incite "aggression against Syria."


GOTHENBURG, Sweden: Some 40 naval vessels and 7,000 personnel
attend opening ceremonies at Gothenburg naval dockyard of major
two-week NATO exercise "Noble Mariner," to be carried out in
Polish and Swedish waters (to 13).


LISBON: World tourism conference (to 12).


LONDON: Miles Cooper, accused of sending letter bombs in February
that injured eight, to appear at Oxford Crown Court.


MOSCOW: Auction of assets of former leading Russian petroleum
company Yukos in the south of Russia for about six billion
dollars (4.6 billion euros).


POTSDAM, Germany: Informal meeting of European integration
ministers.


PRAGUE: US-Czech talks on possible installation of a radar
station, part of a planned missile defence system.


TBILISSI: Czech Prime Minister Mirek Topolanek visits.


TUNIS: 13th edition of the Mediterranean Tourism Market (to 12).


VICTORIA: Legislative elections in The Seychelles (to 12).


ZAGREB: Summit of heads of state and government from 10 European
countries which are members of the South-East European
Cooperation Process (and 11).


Friday, May 11


---------------


GENEVA: Start of two-day Ecocar expo featuring the latest
advances in energy- efficient cars.


HANOI: Vietnamese dissidents Nguyen Van Dai and Le Thi Cong Nhan
scheduled to face one-day trial for spreading propaganda against
the communist state.


HARARE: Release of Briton Simon Mann, alleged mastermind of
attempted coup in Equatorial Guinea.


KRAKOW, Poland: Energy summit of central and eastern European
countries (and 12).


NEW DELHI: Results due for state assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh,
India's largest state.


RABAT: Trial of two Belgians of Moroccan descent accused of
terrorism.


Saturday, May 12


---------------


DAKAR: Start of campaign for general elections on June 3.


EREVAN: Legislative elections in Armenia.


HELSINKI: 52nd annual Eurovision song contest.


REYKJAVIK: Icelandic legislative election.


ROME: Demonstrations organised by Catholic associations against
Italian plan for civil unions.


SINTRA, Portugal: Informal meeting of European Commission
president Jose Manuel Durao Barroso, German Chancellor Angela
Merkel, plus leaders of Portugal and Slovenia, which will hold
the next two rotating presidencies of the EU.


YEREVAN: Armenian legislative election.


Sunday, May 13


---------------


BAMAKO: Second round of Mali's presidential election.


BEIJING: World Magazine Congress (to 15).


BREMEN, Germany: Regional elections.


HONG KONG: HOFEX, Hong Kong's biggest hotel and catering expo (to
16).


LONDON: Classical Brit Awards with Paul McCartney and Sting among
the nominees.


WARSAW: International conference on the fight against narcotics
(to 17).


Monday, May 14


---------------


BANGKOK: The wife of ousted prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra is
arraigned on tax evasion charges.


BERLIN: EU defence, foreign and cooperation ministers meet.


BRUSSELS: Meeting of foreign affairs ministers (and 15).


GENEVA: World Health Organisation assembly starts (to 23).


MANILA: Philippines holds mid-term election for half of the 24
member Senate, all 250 seats of the House of Representatives and
thousands of local posts from mayors to governors.


MARIEHAMN, Finland: Hans Blix, the former UN chief weapons
inspector, now head of the independent Swedish Weapons of Mass
Destruction Commission, visits the Aaland Peace Institute (to May
15).


NEW YORK: Mayors of world capitals and businessmen gather for
conference on climate change (to May 17).


ROME: Trial in absentia continues against US soldier Mario
Lozano, accused in the killing of Italian secret agent Nicola
Calipari in Iraq.


SINGAPORE: Deadline for veteran opposition figure J.B. Jeyaretnam
to pay a fine and emerge from the bankruptcy which has kept him
out of politics.


TOKYO: Japan releases March balance of payments data.


WARSAW: Visit of Slovenian Prime Minister Janez Jansa.


Tuesday, May 15


---------------


BAD PYRMONT, Germany: EU family ministers meet.


BAKU: Former Azerbaijani economic development minister Farhad
Aliyev and his brother Rafiq Aliyev, the former head of the
country's oil company, go on trial on charges of plotting to
overthrow the government.


OSLO: Iran's former reformist president Mohammad Khatami visits
the Oslo Centre for Peace and Human Rights to take part in a
seminar on dialogue between the western and Muslim worlds (to
17).


PETRA, Jordan: 40 Nobel laureates and other public figures
convene for "Petra III: Building a Better World," a conference
hosted by King Abdullah II (and 16).


SINGAPORE: Start of IMDEX Asia, a regional maritime defence
conference and trade show (to 18).


WASHINGTON: Federal Appeals Court examines suit lodged by
Guantanamo detainees against a procedure giving them the status
of "illegal combatants."


- US President George W. Bush meets Swedish Prime Minister
Frederik Reinfeldt.


Wednesday, May 16


---------------


ANKARA: End of Turkish President Ahmet Necdet's term in office.


CANNES, France: Opening of the 60th Cannes Film Festival (to 27).


KATHMANDU: Appeal for Charles Sobhraj, dubbed the "Bikini
Killer," against his murder conviction.


LONDON: Hearing for US extradition request for Abu Hamza, accused
of terrorist acts.


LONDON: Christie's auction of a life-vest from the Titanic.


PARIS: Official end of President Jacques Chirac's term in office.


SHANGHAI: African Development Bank annual meeting (and 17).


TOKYO: Bank of Japan begins two-day policy board meeting. Release
of revised industrial production index for March.


TANGIER, Morocco: Jazz festival.


Thursday, May 17


---------------


ALGIERS: Algerian legislative election.


DEAD SEA, Jordan: World Economic Forum meets on the banks of the
Dead Sea (and 18).


GENEVA: Sotheby's offers for sale the "Donnersmarck diamonds,"
two of the most precious diamonds in the world.


PARIS: Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin to resign his
government. New prime minister to be nominated.


SEOUL: North and South Korea hold test run on reconnected train
lines over their heavily fortified border.


TOKYO: Cabinet Office releases preliminary statistics of gross
domestic product for January-March quarter.


TOKYO: Bank of Japan governor Toshihiko Fukui holds a press
conference following policy board decision.


WELLINGTON: New Zealand government delivers annual budget.


Friday, May 18


---------------


SAMARA, Russia: EU-Russia summit.


DEAD SEA, Jordan: World Economic Forum meets on the banks of the
Dead Sea.


HONG KONG: Government to release first-quarter gross domestic
product figures.


SCHWIELOWSEE, Germany: Meeting of G-8 finance ministers.


SOFIA: Meeting of central Europe finance ministers.


Saturday, May 19


-----------------


BUCHAREST: Romania holds referendum on whether to impeach
President Traian Basescu for allegedly violating the constitution
19 times.


VIENNA: Placido Domingo at the Vienna Opera.


Sunday, May 20


---------------


BANGKOK: Argentine football legend Diego Maradona begins an Asian
tour, staying in Bangkok until May 24 before heading to Malaysia,
Vietnam, China and Australia.


BRUSSELS: Informal meeting of agriculture ministers (and 21).


HANOI: National Assembly election in communist Vietnam.


KAZAN, Russia: General assembly of European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development.


SOFIA: Election of European parliament members, following
Bulgaria's EU membership on Jan 1.


TOKYO: Emperor Akihito and Empress Michiko start 10-day visit to
Sweden; Baltic states of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania; and
Britain.


SRINAGAR, India: Moderate Kashmiri separatists mark the death
anniversaries of two leaders, Mirwaiz Mohammed Farooq, slain in
1990, and Abdul Gani Lone, killed in 2002 by unidentified gunmen.


Monday, May 21


---------------


BRATISLAVA: Dutch Queen Beatrix visits (to 23).


BRUSSELS: EU competition ministers meet.


STRASBOURG: European parliament holds plenary session (to 24).


VIENNA: The OSCE holds conference on the fight against human
trafficking.


Tuesday, May 22


---------------


HANOI: Conference "Biodiversity and Climate Change -- Links with
Poverty and Sustainable Development" organised by German
development agencies GTZ and DED and Vietnamese government (and
23).


LONDON: Chelsea Flower Show (to 26).


NICE, France: The young wife of an elderly British aristocrat,
Lord Shaftesbury, and her brother go on trial for his murder.


MANILA: Philippine President Gloria Arroyo visits Japan (to 27).


OSLO: Former US president Bill Clinton attends a series of
conferences (and 23).


PARIS: Verdict in appeals trial of 14 people accused of
participating in Islamic extremist plots against France between
2001 and 2002.


TALLINN: Baltic defence ministers meet in the Estonian capital.


Wednesday, May 23


-----------------


HANOI: International Monetary Fund deputy managing director
Takatoshi Kato visits for talks with government and central bank
leaders (and 24)


MUNICH, Germany: G8 interior and justice ministers meet (to 25).


UPPSALA, Sweden: Japan's Emperor Akihito and Empress Michiko
attend ceremonies marking the 300th anniversary of the birth of
Swedish botanist and zoologist Carl Linne.


VIENNA: Russian President Vladimir Putin visits (and 24).


VIENNA: New IAEA report on Iran expected to be published.


Thursday, May 24


---------------


BRUSSELS: EU education ministers meet (and 25).


TOKYO: April trade statistics.


Friday, May 25


---------------


BRNO, Czech Republic: Meeting of presidents from 18 central
European countries (AND 26).


BRUSSELS: Foreign ministers from the EU and the ACP (Africa,
Caribbean, Pacific regions) meet.


LOS ANGELES: 30th anniversary of the first film in the "Star
Wars" saga.


RABAT: Terrorism trial of the group Ansar El Mahdi.


RIGA: Japan's Emperor Akihito and Empress Michiko visit.


SEREMBAN, Malaysia: The opposition People's Justice Party,
advised by former deputy premier Anwar Ibrahim, holds its annual
congress (to 27).


YEREVAN: New Armenian parliament sits.


Saturday, May 26


---------------


TUNIS: Trial of Salafist Islamic militants.


VIENNA: Life Ball 2007.


VILNIUS: Japanese Emperor Akihito visits.


Sunday, May 27


---------------


HONG KONG: Christie's Spring Art sales.


LONDON: Japanese Emperor Akihito and Empress Michiko visit.


MADRID: Regional and municipal elections in much of Spain.


MANILA: Philippine President Gloria Arroyo tentatively scheduled
to visit Australia.


ROME: Partial local elections.


SAINT PETERSBURG: Former world chess champion Garry Kasparov
leads an opposition political rally in the name of the party
Other Russia.


YANGON: Aung San Suu Kyi's house arrest comes up for renewal.


YOGYAKARTA: One-year anniversary of the earthquake in Indonesia's
central Java that killed more than 5,000 people and left
thousands more homeless.


Monday, May 28


--------------


ANCHORAGE, Alaska: annual meeting of International Whaling
Commission (to 31).


BANGKOK: Thai Prime Minister Surayud Chulanont begins visit to
China.


JERUSALEM: Israel's Labour party holds a conference to choose
leader.


KUALA LUMPUR: Malaysia holds the third World Islamic Economic
Forum (and 29).


Tuesday, May 29


---------------


ABUJA, Nigeria: Handover from outgoing administration of Olusegun
Obasanjo to that of the president-elect Umaru Yar'Adua.


BANGKOK: World Hair and World Beauty Festival opens for two days.


JAKARTA: One year since hot mud started spewing from the earth at
an exploratory gas well in East Java, displacing 15,000
residents, swamping roads and businesses.


SEOUL: North and South Korea hold ministerial meeting (until June
1).


Wednesday, May 30


-----------------


BANGKOK: Constitutional Court set to rule on vote fraud charges
against Thailand's two biggest parties.


POTSDAM, Germany: G8 foreign ministers meet.


NIGER DELTA, Nigeria: Date set for unconditional release of the
six hostages taken May 1 by armed group the Movement for the
Emancipation of the Niger Delta.


Thursday, May 31


----------------


NAGOYA, Japan: Nagoya High Court hands down ruling on seven South
Korean women seeking damages from the state and Mitsubishi Heavy
Industries for their forced labor toward the end of World War II.


NEW DELHI: India reports gross domestic product data for the year
ended March.


TOKYO: Tokyo High Court hands down ruling on Seiichi Endo, former
senior member of AUM Shinrikyo religious group, who was sentenced
to death by lower court on murder charges for his involvement in
sarin attacks on Tokyo subway system.


Friday, June 1


--------------


ESSEN, Germany: Informal meeting of EU environment ministers (to
3).


WASHINGTON: American Society of Clinical Oncology meets to
discuss the fight against cancer (to 5).


Saturday, June 2


----------------


ROSTOCK, Germany: protesters gather to denounce the G8 four days
ahead of the group's summit at Heiligendamm.


Sunday, June 3


--------------


MANCHESTER, United States: Democratic presidential candidates
hold debate.

