

The number of children in Japan has fallen for the 26th
consecutive year, in a sign of the country's rapidly ageing
population, the government said Friday.


Children aged 14 or younger numbered 17,380,000 as of April 1,
down by 140,000 from a year earlier and a new record low, the
internal affairs ministry reported ahead of the May 5 Children's
Day national holiday.


Japan's population has been shrinking since 2005, and the
government has forecast its population will fall to 60 million --
half its current size -- by 2100 unless it can persuade citizens
to have more children.


The proportion of the population made up by children fell to 13.6
percent, a record low and the 33rd successive annual drop, the
ministry said. It forecast that the number of children would fall
to below 15 million by 2015.


The government has tried to make raising children easier and less
expensive by improving child-care facilities and ensuring
maternity leave for working women.


Japan's fertility rate -- the average number of children a woman
has in her lifetime -- likely inched up to 1.3 last year from a
record low of 1.26 in 2005 thanks to a better economy. Final
statistics are due out in June.


But the country still is not producing enough children to prevent
a population drop as the number remains well below the 2.07 seen
as necessary to maintain the population at current levels.


Japan has one of the world's oldest populations as young people
decide that families place a heavy burden on their lifestyles and
careers.


The trend spells a future crisis as a smaller number of workers
is asked to support a mass of pensioners. But Japan has ruled out
large-scale immigration.

