

Right-to-life campaigners warned of a surge in abortions
following the release this week of a new DNA testing kit which
determines the sex of a baby six weeks into pregnancy, a report
said Friday.


The Early Gender Test, which went on sale on the Internet to non-
US customers this week, checks blood from the mother for
Y-chromosomes, the presence of which indicates a boy.


Michaela Aston, spokeswoman for the right-to-life charity LIFE,
told The Sun newspaper: "This test is very dangerous. It could
lead to babies being aborted simply for being the 'wrong' sex."


"There is a real risk that some people would choose to abort
babies of a certain gender," added Julia Millington of the anti-
abortion Prolife Alliance political party.


The sex of a foetus can be determined by ultra-sound imagery but
it is not very accurate before four to six months and hospitals
in Britain generally do not offer to identify a baby's sex to
prospective partents.


The test, made by DNA Worldwide, costs 190 pounds (375 dollars,
280 euros), with an express version available for 240 pounds (475
dollars, 350 euros) allowing the result to be known within four
working days.


The test works because foetal DNA is present in an expectant
mother's blood only weeks into the pregnancy.


DNA Worldwide's website includes testimonials from US women who
have already used the kit.


"It was strange at first to see the confirmation only written and
not see the baby with my own eyes on the ultrasound, but I got
adjusted to the idea pretty fast," reads one, from a woman named
Loreta.

