

A Garuda passenger plane flying to Singapore returned to
Indonesia Friday after the pilot heard a "buzzing noise," the
national carrier said.


The pilot turned the plane around and returned to the city of
Surabaya after hearing the noise coming from inside the cockpit,
an airline spokesman confirmed.


The pilot was unclear what the noise was, and the decision was a
precaution, the spokesman told AFP.


The plane landed safely early Friday and no one was injured.


State Antara news agency earlier reported the plane was carrying
245 passengers and was 15 minutes into its flight, but the Garuda
spokesman said there were just 47 passengers and the plane had
been flying for 35 minutes.


"The noise came from the window in the cockpit," spokesman
Pudjobroto said.


He said ground crew at Surabaya discovered after it landed that a
window seal had come unstuck, producing the noise. The seal was
later replaced.


"We have already fixed it, and we now need to wait until the glue
dries," Pudjobroto said.


A Garuda manager, Sudjoko Dalijo, was quoted by Antara saying
"the pilot decided to return back as the buzzing noise disrupted
his concentration."


The incident comes after a series of air accidents in Indonesia
in recent months. A Garuda plane crashed into a runway in Central
Java in March, bursting into flames and killing 21 people.


Another of the company's jets landed safely on Sulawesi island
last month despite bursting a tyre.


An Adam Air plane plunged into the sea off Sulawesi island on New
Year's Day, killing all 102 on board.


The government says it is trying to improve passenger protection
in the archipelago nation of 17,000 islands, which depends on air
and sea links.


The accidents have been blamed on old planes and ships, poor
maintenance and insufficient investment in infrastructure despite
booming passenger numbers.

