

Oil prices soared Wednesday as Britain froze ties with Iran, the
world's fourth largest producer of crude, in response to the
Islamic country's refusal to release 15 British sailors.


Traders also digested official data that revealed US stockpiles
of crude oil and refined products dipped over the past week.


The price of Brent North Sea crude for May delivery leapt 1.67
dollars to 66.27 dollars a barrel in electronic trading.


Overnight, Brent crude had surged as high as 69.00 dollars --
last seen on September 4 -- on rumours of military conflict in
Iran.


The rumours quickly evaporated, leading to heavy profit-taking
before the close of Tuesday's trade.


On Wednesday New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet
crude for delivery in May, jumped 1.62 dollars to 64.55 dollars
in pit deals.


New York crude had rocketed to 68.09 dollars on Tuesday -- the
highest level since September 6 last year.


Analysts have said that Iran might decide to disrupt its oil
exports should tensions with the West escalate.


As well as its standoff with Britain over detained sailors, Iran
refuses to bow to international pressure over its disputed
nuclear programme.


"The overriding factor today is still the Iranian situation,"
said Daiwa Securities analyst Mark Pervan.


"It's a lot of 'just in case' buying at this stage."


Britain announced Wednesday a freeze on all official ties with
Iran over the Islamic state's detention of sailors and marines in
the Gulf.


A British servicewoman detained along with 14 other sailors will
be released "within a day or two", Iranian foreign ministry
spokesman Mohammad Ali Hosseini told AFP on Wednesday.


Iranian television later broadcast footage of the 15 captured
last Friday -- a move Britain condemned as "completely
unacceptable."


British Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett announced the freezing
of ties shortly after Prime Minister Tony Blair vowed to increase
pressure on Tehran, which he said faced "total isolation."


"We are now in a new phase of diplomatic activity .... We need to
focus all our bilateral efforts during this phase on the
resolution of this issue," Beckett said.


Iran insisted Wednesday that the personnel it detained last week
were in Iranian waters, but said it was "confident" London and
Tehran can resolve the standoff.


The statement came minutes after British military officials
unveiled documentary evidence they said showed the Britons were
1.7 nautical miles (3.15 kilometres) inside Iraqi waters when
they were detained.


"Tensions between Iran and the West have been running high (also)
because of Tehran's continuing refusal to halt nuclear enrichment
despite more sanctions from the UN over the weekend," Sucden
analyst Michael Davies said.


He added: "The tension is a concern to the market, with many
market participants worried that Iran could halt its oil output
if backed into a corner."


Aside from Iran, dealers pored over a weekly update on American
energy inventory data. Crude stockpiles fell by 900,000 barrels
to 328.4 million in the week to March 23, the Department of
Energy said.


That compared with a market forecast of an increase of 2.3
million barrels.

