

The top-decision making body of Zimbabwe's ruling party has
agreed a presidential election date and its chosen candidate, but
will reveal the details on Friday, a spokesman said.


Nathan Shamuyarira, a spokesman for Zanu (PF), told state
television that the ZANU-PF politburo had "extensively" discussed
proposals to have simultaneous presidential and parliamentary
polls.


"The resolution on harmonisation (of elections) ... has been
discussed, but we will take the matters to central committee on
Friday," he said.


Mugabe, who has ruled the country since 1980, will see his term
of office expire next year, but his party last December proposed
extending his tenure by two more years to 2010.


But the proposals have met with opposition from party elders and
Mugabe also appears to have abandoned the idea, urging his
supporters last week to gear up for elections in 2008.


According to Zimbabwe Television, the troubled southern African
country looks set to hold both the presidential and legislative
elections next year.


It said Mugabe had "already indicated that the ruling party
favours holding the elections next year, as consultants have
advised that 2008 presents fewer legal problems."


It added: "President Mugabe has indicated his willingness to
contest the election if nominated and already both the ZANU-PF
women's league and youth league have endorsed his candidature."


Opposition and church leaders this week said elections under
current constitution would not be free and fair.


Morgan Tsvangirai, leader of the main opposition Movement for
Democratic Change (MDC) hinted on Tuesday that he would not take
part in the elections unless a new people-driven constitution was
in place.


"If Tsvangirai decided to boycott the elections we will go ahead
with the elections in any case because this is in the
constitution," said Shamuyarira for Zanu on television.


"We are doing what is legal and we are doing what the MDC
themselves were clamouring for."

