

Yahoo and McClatchy announced a partnership on Wednesday to use
the US newspaper company's correspondents to supply the Internet
search giant with international news.


McClatchy correspondents in regions including China, Iraq and
Latin America will provide stories and analysis for Yahoo News
website as part of a collaborative project called "Trusted
Voices."


Correspondents will also write blogs exclusively for the
Sunnyvale, California- based Internet search engine's online
pages.


The filings from professional international correspondents
promises to deliver powerful "on-the-ground perspective,"
according to Yahoo News chief Scott Moore.


"World News is among the most popular categories on Yahoo News,"
Moore said. "Partnering with The McClatchy Company will
significantly expand Yahoo's coverage of the world's most
important regions."


Trusted Voices will launch in the next several months with an
"Inside Iraq" blog written by native Iraqi correspondents working
in McClatchy's Baghdad bureau. Stories and blogs from Cairo and
Jerusalem will also be featured.


"This project marries Yahoo's enormous range of coverage and
unmatched audience with unique 'Trusted Voices' from McClatchy
who can supply almost personalized guidance for those readers,"
said McClatchy vice president Howard Weaver.


Hundreds of millions of people worldwide use Yahoo monthly,
according to industry statistics.


McClatchy Company is the third-largest newspaper company in the
United States, with 31 daily newspapers and approximately 50 non-
daily publications. McClatchy also operates news and classified
advertising websites.

