

Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan has invited his
Palestinian counterpart Ismail Haniya of the hardline Islamist
Hamas movement to visit Ankara, a report said Wednesday.


The invitation to Haniya came at a meeting Wednesday of the two
leaders in the sidelines of an Arab League summit in Riyadh, the
CNN-Turk news channel reported.


Neither Erdogan's spokesman nor the foreign ministry here could
confirm the report.


Haniya heads the new Palestinian unity government that includes
Hamas, regarded as a terror group by Israel and the West, and the
Fatah movement of president Mahmud Abbas.


Israel has called on the international community to pursue its
year-long boycott of the Palestinian Authority.


It insists the new government has failed to recognise the Jewish
state, renounce violence or abide by past peace deals, the three
conditions laid down by the international community to accept and
resume aid to the cash-strapped government.


Turkey angered Israel when it hosted a delegation led by exiled
Hamas supremo Khaled Meshaal in February 2006, following Hamas'
victory in the Palestinian elections, in what Ankara defended as
an effort to press the militant group to renounce violence.


During a visit to Turkey in May, Israeli Foreign Minister Tzipi
Livni brushed aside the spat between the two countries as a
"closed issue."


A predominantly Muslim but secular non-Arab nation, Turkey has
been Israel's chief regional ally since 1996, when the two signed
a military cooperation accord, much to the anger of Iran and Arab
countries.


But the Palestinian cause for statehood is also dear to Erdogan's
Islamist- rooted Justice and Development Party, which has harshly
criticized Israel's heavy-handed policies against the
Palestinians.


Erdogan condemned as "state terror" a deadly Israeli raid on the
Rafah refugee camp in May 2004 and labelled the assassination two
months earlier of Sheikh Ahmed Yassin a "terrorist act."

