

Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said Wednesday that
he mediated for the release of a woman sailor captured by Iran
along with 14 other British servicemen, a report said.


The CNN-Turk television news channel quoted Erdogan as telling
reporters on the sidelines of the Arab summit in Riyadh that
British Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett conveyed a request for
the woman's release during a one-day visit to Turkey on Tuesday.


"When I met Iranian Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki at
breakfast today, I passed on the request and he gave a positive
answer," the Turkish leader said.


Iran said earlier Wednesday that Faye Turney would be released
"within a day or two," adding that it was still investigating the
remaining 14.


Erdogan said Mottaki would consult Tehran before deciding whether
to allow Turkish diplomats to meet the detained sailors.


Turkey has pledged to help Britain in efforts to end the row and
seek access to the detainees after Beckett told her Turkish
counterpart Abdullah Gul that London would welcome efforts by
diplomats from third countries.


Erdogan also said London's decision to freeze all official ties
with the Islamic state was "hasty," as efforts were still under
way to resolve the stand-off, CNN-Turk reported.


Beckett announced the suspension of all ties in a statement to
the British parliament shortly after Prime Minister Tony Blair
vowed to increase pressure on Tehran, which he said faces "total
isolation."


Britain says the eight sailors and seven marines were on a
"routine" anti- smuggling operation when they were seized at
gunpoint in the north of the Gulf on Friday.


Tehran says they entered Iranian territorial waters illegally.

