

The United Nations signed a new agreement with the Sudanese
government Wednesday in a bid to remove obstacles to the delivery
of aid to war-torn Darfur by the world's largest relief
operation.


"The government of Sudan re-affirms its commitment to continue to
support, protect and facilitate all humanitarian operations in
Darfur," said a joint statement issued by Khartoum and the world
body after the signing.


The statement said the Sudanese government had agreed to speed up
the processing of visa applications, simplify customs procedures,
and improve access to refugee camps.


The deal came in the face of repeated complaints by UN agencies
and other aid organizations that bureaucratic obstacles were
undermining the billion dollar a year relief operation which
involves some 13,000 staff.


"If we don't deal with those problems, (the) humanitarian effort
could begin to unravel with catastrophic effects for the civilian
population," UN humanitarian affairs chief John Holmes told
reporters Monday after a field visit to Darfur.


Holmes was prevented from visiting a refugee camp during his
tour, something he described as symptomatic of the problems faced
by aid organizations in Darfur.


The Sudanese government has insisted that a communication problem
was reponsible for the UN official being barred from the camp.


Some 2.5 million people have fled homes in Darfur since ethnic
minority rebels rose up in 2003 drawing a scorched earth response
from the Sudanese military and its feared Janjaweed militia
allies.


Some 200,000 people have also died, according to the United
Nations, although other sources put the death toll much higher.

