

The coastal waters in which 15 British naval personnel were
detained by an Iranian vessel on Friday are near the outlet of
the strategic Shatt al-Arab waterway, which forms the southern
end of Iran's long border with Iraq.


Map coordinates provided by Britain on Wednesday, but not so far
confirmed by Iran, sited the incident to the southeast of the Faw
peninsula, a part of Iraq which juts out into the waters of the
Gulf.


The Shatt al-Arab and the coastal waters at its outlet have long
been a bone of contention between Iran and Iraq, and were one of
the reasons invoked by Saddam Hussein in 1980 for launching a
devastating eight-year war between the two neighbours.


Iraq, for which the Shatt al-Arab is the only sea outlet, long
claimed sovereignty over the whole of the waterway right over to
the Iranian shore.


In 1975, in the face of Iranian backing for a Kurdish uprising in
nothern Iraq, Baghdad signed an agreement with Tehran in Algiers
conceding the median line of the waterway and adjacent coastal
zone as the border.


However, the promised follow-up talks to define the median line
amid the waterway's shifting course never took place and its
precise position remains difficult to define.


Saddam tore up the Algiers agreement when he invaded Iran, and
the war's end eight years later was swiftly followed by his
invasion of Kuwait and the 1991 Gulf war.


The Shatt al-Arab, which is known to Iranians as the Arvand Roud,
is a broad waterway through which both the Tigris and Euphrates
rivers reach the Gulf.


It starts at Qurna, north of Iraq's second city of Basra, and
extends some 200 kilometres (125 miles).


The strategic aspect of the waterway and its adjacent waters
derives from their use by tankers carrying a significant
proportion of the oil exports of both Iran and Iraq.

