

The scent of a woman was too powerful for bus drivers in western
Canada who twice banished her to the curb for dabbing too much
perfume, press reports said Wednesday.


The buxom brunette said she boarded a bus on two separate days
wearing her usual two squirts of Very Irresistible by Givenchy,
billed in advertisements as bringing out a woman's spontaneity,
audacity and sensuality.


But during each commute, the driver said the potent odor was
interfering with his ability to operate the vehicle, and kicked
her off.


"I was humiliated and embarrassed in front of other passengers,"
the 25-year-old chiropractic assistant told broadcaster CTV. "I
got off that bus in tears."


When she complained, transit officials steered her to the back of
the bus, next to an open window. "I felt like a modern day Rosa
Parks," she told the National Post.


Pundits said the confrontation illustrates changing attitudes in
Canada to heavy perfume use, much in the same way that smoking
became less acceptable in recent decades.


"At one point, the etiquette was that if you didn't like the
smoke, then leave," scent expert Roedy Green told the Globe and
Mail newspaper. "Now the rule is that you don't have the right to
pollute somebody else's air."


In 2000, the city of Halifax in eastern Canada banned scents in
all municipal buildings, including schools, libraries and courts,
as well as many workplaces, theatres and shops.


The Lung Association meanwhile said it has received more and more
requests for scent-free signs and related materials, with rising
rates of asthma and other pulmonary diseases that are greatly
susceptible to irritants in the air. amc/ksh

