

The family of a terror suspect in 2002 attacks in Kenya who has
been transferred to Guantanamo Bay on Wednesday called for him to
be returned to Kenya for trial.


Abdul Malik's sister said her family found out about his transfer
to the US military base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, after the
Pentagon made the announcement Monday.


"We as a family are so saddened by his transfer to Cuba without
him being tried here in Kenya. We as a family ask that he should
be returned to the country and tried under our own laws if he has
committed any mistake," said Malik's sister, Myriam Mohamed Ali,
at a news conference with some of her family in Nairobi's Jamia
mosque.


She said her family had last seen her elder brother briefly on
February 24 at a police station on the outskirts of Nairobi,
after Muslim authorities told them he was being held there.


He had been working as a teacher in a Koranic school in Mombasa,
she added.


Malik's lawyer, Harun Ndubi, also called for his return.


"We demand that Mr Malik be returned to the country at the cost
of the US and Kenyan governments," he said.


"Since January 2007 the governments of Kenya, Ethiopia and the
United States and the Transitional Federal Government of Somalia
have engaged in systematic and sustained renditions of persons
arrested in Kenya.


"This is done notwithstanding that the suspects are moved without
any process of law, access to lawyers or contact with family."


The Pentagon on Monday said that Malik was picked up in East
Africa and came into US custody this year before being
transferred to Guantanamo, without providing further details.


A Pentagon spokesman said Malik had admitted taking part in the
2002 Paradise Hotel bombing in Mombasa, that killed 13, as well
as an attempt to bring down an Israeli airliner in the city.


Malik joins 14 top terror suspects who were transferred to
Guantanamo in September from secret CIA detention facilities
overseas.

