

European Central Bank president Jean-Claude Trichet said
Wednesday that ECB interest rates remained moderate, suggesting
the bank's current cycle of rising rates could be nearing an end.


"At the present level, our monetary policy is on the
accommodative side and the key interest rates are moderate,"
Trichet told a news conference following a meeting of central
bankers from eurozone and Mediterranean countries.


The ECB raised its main refinancing rate to 3.75 percent from
3.50 percent earlier this month, but markets still expect a
similar rate increase in the months ahead.


The current cycle which began in December 2005 has seen the ECB
raise interest rates seven times in 15 months.


The central bank says that strong money and credit growth raises
longer-term inflation risks, and added Wednesday that M3 money
supply growth accelerated to 10.0 percent in February on an
annual basis, the highest rate since 1990.


The ECB closely monitors developments in the money supply when
deciding the appropriate level of interest rates because it sees
a link between the level of liquidity in the economy and future
inflation.


The guardian of the euro calculates that the money supply needs
to expand by an annual 4.5 percent to serve as a basis for non-
inflationary economic growth.


But M3 money supply, which covers cash, overnight deposits, other
short-term deposits, repurchase agreements, shares and units in
money market funds and debt securities with a maturity of up to
two years, has in fact been growing much faster than that for
around six years.


Trichet also noted some indications that growth in lending was
starting to ease.


"The credit side is showing very small signs of moderation," he
said.


Private sector credit growth for example slowed to 10.7 percent
in February from 11.3 percent one month earlier.

