

European stock markets slid Wednesday on surging crude oil prices
and comments by the chairman of the US Federal Reserve, dealers
said.


London's FTSE 100 index was off 0.40 percent at 6,267.20 points.


In Frankfurt, the DAX 30 gave up 0.60 percent to 6,816.89 points
and in Paris the CAC 40 dropped 0.62 percent to 5,552.69.


The DJ Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone blue chip shares shed 0.61
percent to 4,128.20 points.


The euro stood at 1.3335 dollars.


On Wall Street, the Dow Jones Industrial Average had slipped by
0.86 percent to 12,290.50 points as European markets closed,
while the tech heavy Nasdaq Composite was off 0.74 percent at
2,419.47.


The broad Standard and Poor's 500 index also showed a loss of
0.74 percent to 1,418.06 points.


In Asia, Tokyo's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares closed down
0.64 percent at 17,254.73 points, extending losses for a second
straight session.


Dealers said there was concern about choppy trade on the Shanghai
market, whose fall a month ago triggered turmoil on global
markets.


Hong Kong's key Hang Seng Index closed down 0.78 percent at
19,553.87.


Japanese share prices were also hit by worries over the latest
weak US data and a stronger yen, while concern persisted over
rising oil prices caused by simmering tensions over Iran, dealers
said.


World oil prices rallied on Wednesday but remained beneath 69
dollars per barrel -- the level they briefly reached late Tuesday
in London following a rumour that Iran had attacked an American
ship, traders said.


Higher oil prices increase costs for companies and therefore
weigh on most share prices. However energy companies benefit as
more expensive crude boosts their profits.


Anglo-Dutch energy giant Royal Dutch Shell saw its 'B' shares
gain 0.83 percent to 1,694 pence and rival BP soared 1.56 percent
to 552 pence in London. French peer Total added 0.89 percent to
51.91 euros in Paris.


But the markets were spooked in late trading after Federal
Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke told US lawmakers that the outlook
for the depressed housing market was "uncertain."


Bernanke said the housing downturn did not appear to have spread
into the wider economy yet, but his remarks hung heavy amid
investor's concern about prospects for US growth.


The European mining sector meanwhile also suffered on the back of
easing metals prices.


In London, Rio Tinto stock sank 1.72 percent to 2,831.29 pence
and Kazakhmys fell 1.07 percent to 1,140.62 pence.


The price of shares in pipe maker Vallourec shot up by 4.71
percent to 184.32 euros in Paris on a broker' suggestion that the
company might be the target of a bid from steel giant Arcelor
Mittal.


But the head of the steel group Lakshmi Mittal said later that
his group was not interested "for the moment".


Arcelor Mittal shares nonetheless tumbled by 3.20 percent to
38.37 euros.


In Frankfurt, Volkswagen shares plunged by 2.64 percent to 110.50
euros after Porsche, the German maker of luxury sports cars,
officially launched a mandatory takeover offer for VW, Europe's
biggest car maker.


Porshe's price appeared low however, suggesting that it did not
really want the bid to succeed.


Stuttgart-based Porsche, which has raised its stake in VW to
30.94 percent, said in a short statement that it would offer to
buy all the remaining shares in the car maker at 100.92 euros
(134 dollars) apiece, as required by law.


In Amsterdam, the AEX index lost 0.61 percent to 505.11 points,
the Swiss SMI was down 1.07 percent at 8,870.56, in Milan the
SP/Mib slipped by 0.33 percent to 41,201, in Madrid the Ibex-35
was off by 0.37 percent at 14,483 and in Brussels the Bel-20
closed 0.69 percent lower at 4,441.23.

