

President Vladimir Putin expressed Russia's concerns about US
plans for a missile shield in Europe in a telephone conversation
with President George W. Bush on Wednesday, the Kremlin said.


"Vladimir Putin set out the reasons for Russian concern about the
US plans to create a base for an anti-missile system in Central
Europe," a Kremlin statement said after the phone call, which was
initiated by the White House.


The Russian side "noted with satisfaction an expression by the US
president of readiness for detailed discussion of this theme with
the Russian side and for cooperation in the interests of common
security," the statement said.


Russia has strongly objected to the US plans to place components
of an anti- missile system in the Czech Republic and Poland as
well as in one of the South Caucasus nations, Armenia, Azerbaijan
and Georgia.


All the proposed host countries were part of Moscow's sphere of
influence in Soviet times.


But the Czech Republic and Poland are now part of the NATO
military alliance and have both defended their right to determine
their own defence arrangements.


Putin personally voiced Russia's objections in a speech in Munich
last month that amounted to a full-frontal attack on US foreign
policy.


Washington has insisted the missile defence system, comprising a
radar system in the Czech Republic and interceptor rockets in
Poland, is not directed against Russia.


Washington says the shield is needed as protection against any
attack by "rogue states" such as Iran and North Korea and would
in any case be no match for Russia's vast arsenal.

