

A French appeals court on Wednesday overturned a conviction
against terrorist mastermind Carlos the Jackal for justifying
terrorism, citing insufficient evidence.


Venezuelan-born Carlos, whose real name is Illich Ramirez
Sanchez, was fined 5,000 euros (6,650 dollars) in April last year
following an interview he gave to the French M6 television
station from his prison cell in France, excerpts of which were
aired on March 7, 2004.


Carlos, 56, was unrepentant in the interview, saying it was rare
to find innocent victims of terrorism and declaring that "the
Great Satan got it up the arse", in reference to the September
11, 2001 attacks.


"I will not say that I was the hand of God in certain cases, but
in the justified war, we are authorized to take lives if
necessary," Carlos said in the interview.


An appeals court ruled Wednesday that the remarks did not
constitute an offense, saying only seven or eight minutes of the
conversation had been broadcast.


"The court did not find in the material evidence at its disposal
that the scope and meaning of the remarks ... constitute a
justification of terrorism acts," said the ruling.


Carlos is serving a life sentence in a French jail for the murder
in 1975 of two French police officers.


After spending two decades on the run, he was captured from his
last hiding place in Khartoum in 1994 by French secret service
agents acting with the help of the Sudanese government.


The Marxist-Leninist radical, who staged the spectacular 1975
kidnapping of international oil ministers meeting in Vienna, once
boasted that his plots had killed more than 1,500 people over two
decades.

