

Finnish Prime Minister Matti Vanhanen tendered his government's
resignation on Wednesday, in line with custom after legislative
elections, though he is expected to form a new government.


Vanhanen's Centre Party won Finland's March 18 elections by a
hair, winning a one-seat advantage in parliament over the
conservative National Coalition Party. The two are expected to
form a coalition government.


Vanhanen presented his government's resignation to President
Tarja Halonen behind closed doors. "I accept your resignation,"
Halonen told Vanhanen in front of reporters.


The Centre won 23.1 percent of votes and 51 of 200 seats in
parliament. The conservatives won 22.3 percent of votes and 50
seats, while the Social Democrats won 21.4 percent and 45 seats.


Finland has been governed by Vanhanen's Centre Party, the Social
Democrats and the tiny Swedish People's Party since 2003.
Observers expect the Social Democrats to be relegated to the
opposition.


Negotiations to form a new government are scheduled to formally
begin on April 10. The new Finnish parliament will elect a prime
minister a week later.


In a television interview at the weekend, Vanhanen said that the
Centre Party's future coalition partner -- most probably the
conservatives -- could be given the positions of speaker of
parliament and finance minister.


The Centre Party would meanwhile hold the posts of prime minister
and foreign minister, he said.


But the Social Democrats, whose election score was a stinging
defeat, have not given up hope of renewing their coalition with
the Centre Party.

