

Thousands of people paid tribute Wednesday to Armenian prime
minister Andranik Margarian as his funeral procession passed
through the streets of Erevan.


Braving driving rain, Armenians milled around the Yerevan Opera
House in central Erevan as the cortege passed by on its way to
the Pantheon, where Margarian, who died of a heart attack on
Sunday, was buried alongside some of Armenia's greatest
historical figures.


Delegations from a number of countries were present at the
funeral for the 56 -year-old leader of the ruling Republican
party and the former Soviet republic's 10th prime minister since
independence in 1991.


Georgian Prime Minister Zurab Nogaideli, the most high-level
official present, was flanked by government ministers, members of
parliament and other officials from countries including Canada,
France, Greece, Ukraine and the United States, as well as NATO's
special representative for the Caucasus and Central Asia.


Turkey, which does not have diplomatic ties with Armenia, was
nonetheless represented at the funeral by its ambassador to
Georgia, and the Turkish prime minister and foreign minister sent
a telegram expressing their condolences.


A national day of mourning was declared on Wednesday, with flags
flying at half mast across the country and all entertainment
programs and events were cancelled.


Margarian, who died just weeks before legislative elections on
May 12, had been in office since 2000.


Previously he was a parliamentary deputy in the 1990s and served
in different government departments during the Soviet era.


Trained as an engineer, Margarian was arrested for anti-Soviet
dissident activity in 1974 and sentenced to two years in prison,
according to his official biography.


As laid down by the Armenian constitution, the entire government
resigned following the prime minister's death.


Government sources have indicated that Margarian was likely to be
succeeded by Defence Minister Serge Sarksian.

