

"War on terror" detainees at Guantanamo are avid "Harry Potter"
readers and eagerly await the next book in the series featuring
the schoolboy wizard, the camp librarian says.


While religion tops the reading lists of the overwhelmingly
Muslim detainees, Harry Potter was a big favorite, said the chief
librarian at the US-run prison in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.


"When you get to fiction, definitely Harry Potter," said the
librarian, who would only give her first name, Maggie.


The camp has even pre-ordered the next installment, "Harry Potter
and the Deathly Hollows," which is due out later this year.


"They're all waiting for number seven to come out," she told
reporters.


The library staff offers the inmates, described as "enemy
combatants" posing a threat to the United States, a choice of
books once a week, she said.


"They take a variety of things out for the detainees to choose
from," she said. "The library is one of the most popular things
here."


The librarian said surfing and fishing were the main interests
for Australian inmate David Hicks, who pleaded guilty on Monday
to a single charge of supporting terrorism.


Hicks, who is expected to be sentenced later this week and
eventually transferred back to his native Australia, was an "avid
reader" who had built up his own collection of books during his
five-year detention.


"He almost has his own library. He has quite a few items that
people from Australia send him," she said.


He had numerous books about salt-water fishing, as well as books
about surfing in Australia and the Great Barrier Reef, she said.


Some 385 detainees are held under elaborate security at the camp
located at the remote US naval base in southeast Cuba. Hicks is
the only detainee to have been charged so far under newly created
military tribunals overseen by the US Defense Department.


Former detainees have alleged they suffered abuse and torture
during their detentions, charges the US government denies.

