

Former NBA centre Wang Zhizhi led the Bayi Rockets to the 2007
China Basketball Championships Wednesday, dethroning three-time
defending champs Guangdong Tigers 88-83.


Wang scored nine of his 21 points in a tightly fought fourth
quarter to seal the victory for Bayi, which won the seven-game-
series four games to one -- including three victories on
Guangdong's home court.


The seven-foot (2.12 metre) Wang also got help from veteran small
forward Zhang Jingsong, who chipped in 18 points for the winners,
including hitting five of six three pointers.


The championship series has been billed as a match up between
Wang and Guangdong's up and coming power forward Yi Jianlian, who
is expected to be chosen by a team in the world's top league in
the June NBA draft.


The seven-foot 20-year-old Yi was outplayed by Wang throughout
the series, but has led his team in scoring and rebounding and on
Wednesday ended up with 22 points and nine boards.


Bayi jumped out to a 15-6 lead midway through the first quarter
behind a barrage of three point shots and stayed in front until
two minutes left in the third quarter when a lay-in by forward Du
Feng gave Guangdong a 59-58 lead.


But Bayi came storming back taking a nine-point lead with just
over two minutes to go in the game before Guangdong cut the lead
to 85-83 with 55 seconds left behind four points by Yi and a
three-pointer by forward Zhu Fangyu.


Guangdong had a chance to go ahead but American import Terrance
Green turned over the ball with 18 seconds left, as Bayi finished
the scoring from the free throw line.


Wang won six CBA championships before embarking on a four-year
stint in the NBA, where he saw limited playing time for Dallas,
the Los Angeles Clippers and the Miami Heat.


Since returning to China he helped the national side into the
second round of last year's World Basketball Championships, while
anchoring the team to a gold medal in December's Asian Games.

