

The sisters of a young British teacher whose corpse was found in
Japan in bizarre circumstances paid an emotional tribute outside
the family home.


Lindsay Ann Hawker's body was discovered in a bathtub filled with
sand on an apartment balcony in suburban Tokyo.


Police are seeking to arrest a Japanese man who lived in the
apartment where the 22-year-old English teacher's bruised and
naked body was found.


Sisters Lisa and Louise Hawker fought tears as they read prepared
statements in Coventry, central England. Their father has flown
to Tokyo.


"Our sister Lindsay was our best friend. She was extraordinary in
so many ways," said Lisa Hawker, 25. "Like so many people our age
she wanted to see the world, and for some reason felt safer in
Japan than in this country.


"We are all made constantly aware of the dangers on our own
streets. Thousands of young people go abroad each year, and for
some reason the dangers of home seem to be forgotten.


"If Lindsay's death can make at least one young person abroad be
more vigilant then perhaps one more family can be spared the
pain, the devastation, and the despair we are all experiencing."


The case comes seven years after the disappearance of Lucie
Blackman, another young British woman working in Japan. The 21
-year-old bar hostess was found seven months later, dismembered
and buried in a seaside cave.


Louise Hawker, 20, said: "Our family are so close and we have
been torn apart by what's happened.


"You never think a thing like this could happen to you. We are
normal people, and it does, and it hurts more than you can
imagine."


In Tokyo, their father, William, was enraged and tearfully vowed
to see justice is served in connection with the death of his
daughter, who finished her university last year and came to Japan
in October.

