

American Airlines announced Wednesday it was accelerating
delivery for new jetliners from Boeing in a move to increase fuel
efficiency and curb noise and emissions.


American's holding company AMR Corp. said it was stepping up the
plan to replace some of its MD-80 fleet with Boeing 737s.


"American has notified The Boeing Company of its intent to begin
pulling forward the delivery of 47 Boeing 737-800 aircraft under
a previously existing purchase commitment," the airline said in a
statement.


The largest US carrier said it would accept delivery in early
2009 of three of these aircraft previously scheduled for delivery
in 2016 and would "continue pulling forward deliveries of the
other aircraft from their current 2013-2016 delivery schedules
into the 2009-2012 timeframe."


It said the final decision on deliveries will depend on economic
and industry conditions and the financial condition of the
company.


"We believe that beginning to replace some of our MD-80s in a
measured way makes economic sense and represents prudent and
strategic reinvestment in our business that will bring long-term
benefits to shareholders, customers and employees," said AMR
chairman and chief executive Gerard Arpey.


"Our existing agreement with Boeing gives us ample flexibility
for our long-term fleet plan. While the MD-80 remains an
excellent aircraft that serves us and our customers well, the new
737s will be a great addition to our fleet that will lower our
operational costs, boost the fuel efficiency of our fleet and
also bolster our efforts to lower emissions and noise levels."


American estimates that the 737 consumes 25 percent less fuel per
available seat mile than an MD-80. American has a goal to improve
the fuel efficiency of its fleet by more than 20 percent by 2020
to lower costs and reduce emissions.

