

Amid a fanfare of Chinese music and dragon dancers, United
Airlines launched a new direct Washington-Beijing flight
Wednesday highlighting the growing commercial ties between the US
and China.


"This inaugural flight is more than just another service in
United's robust global network," said Glenn Tilton, United
chairman and chief executive in a ceremony at Washington's Dulles
Airport.


"Connecting for the first time two of the world's most important
cities is a historic occasion with great geopolitical, commercial
and cultural promise for citizens of both the United States and
China."


United Airlines won approval earlier this year for a new nonstop
flight from Washington to Beijing, prevailing over three other
carriers vying for a single opening to the fast-growing Chinese
market.


The flight, roughly 14 hours to Bejing and about 12 hours to
Washington, is the first nonstop service between the two
capitals.


The US and Chinese governments each awarded rights to a local
carrier for seven flights a week connecting the two countries,
under a 2004 aviation agreement.


United will be operating a Boeing 747 with a capacity of 347
passengers for the service. The daily flight departs Washington
Dulles International Airport at 12:23 pm and lands in Beijing
Capital International Airport at 1:55 pm local time the following
day.


A return flight leaves Beijing at 6:30 pm local time and arrives
the 7:46 pm the next day.


Virginia Governor Timothy Kaine and Minister Zheng Zeguang of the
Chinese embassy were among those at the inaugural ceremony at
Dulles.

