

The Israeli army will have to confront the strengthening of
Palestinian militant groups in the Gaza Strip, army chief of
staff Major General Gabi Ashkenazi was quoted as saying on
Wednesday.


"The strengthening process of the terror organisations in the
Gaza Strip will have to be confronted," Ashkenazi was quoted by a
lawmaker as telling parliament's foreign affairs and defence
committee.


Israel and the Palestinians have largely abided by a Gaza
ceasefire reached last November, but Israeli officials have
repeatedly warned that they would have to respond to an alleged
increase of arms smuggling into the strip from Egypt.


Later on Wednesday, four Palestinians were wounded in northern
Gaza after an Israeli strike, the first such attack since the
November 26 truce.


Ashkenazi was also quoted as saying that Israel "must
differentiate between the Gaza Strip and the West Bank and not to
allow any technology or weapons from reaching the West Bank."


"My goal is to ensure the army's preparedness, and while the army
will be most of the time preparing for war, along side its
struggle against terrorism," he said.


Ashkenazi took office last month. His predecessor, Dan Halutz,
resigned in January amid massive criticism of the army's conduct
during last summer's war in Lebanon.


Committee member and right-wing MP Yuval Steinitz said the new
army chief "understands the necessity to change things within the
army in order to prepare for the new regional geo-strategic
threats."


The army waged a months-long operation in Gaza last year in a bid
to rescue a soldier seized by three armed groups, including the
armed wing of the Islamic movement Hamas, in a raid on an army
border post. The soldier is still being held prisoner.


The operation, which wreaked havoc on the infrastructure of the
already impoverished coastal strip, left around 400 Palestinians
and three Israeli soldiers dead.

