

Charl Langeveldt claimed five wickets as Sri Lanka limped to 209
all out in a World Cup Super Eight match against South Africa at
the Guyana National Stadium Wednesday.


Tillekeratne Dilshan (58) and Russel Arnold (50) were mainly
responsible for Sri Lanka's total, putting on 97 for the sixth
wicket after their side slumped to 98 for five.


But after Dilshan was caught at third man off Makhaya Ntini, who
took two for 26, Sri Lanka lost their last four wickets for one
run, with Langeveldt taking three wickets in his final over all
to attempted big hits.


South Africa bowled accurately after Sri Lanka won the toss and
batted on a new, untried surface which proved to be slow but
true.


Sri Lanka made a rapid start with left-handed opening batsman
Upul Tharanga and Sanath Jayasuriya seemingly targeting South
African opening bowler Shaun Pollock.


Tharanga was caught at slip off Ntini for 12 but Jayasuriya
contined to bat aggressively against Pollock, forcing South
African captain Graeme Smith to take him off after the world
number one ranked one-day bowler conceded 32 runs in four overs.


Langeveldt, who replaced Pollock, claimed the wickets of
Jayasuriya, who top- edged an attempted square cut to point, and
captain Mahela Jayawardene, who was caught at cover off a leading
edge when he tried to play to leg.


Sri Lanka were in trouble when Kumar Sangakkara gloved a catch to
wicketkeeper Mark Boucher off Andrew Hall and Chamara Silva was
run out by Herschelle Gibbs who ran in and dived into the stumps
from backward point after Silva started on a run and was sent
back.


South Africa, needing a win to get their campaign back on track
after losing against Australia in St Kitts Saturday, brought in
left-arm spin bowler Robin Peterson in place of batsman Ashwell
Prince.


Seam bowler Farveez Maharoof returned for Sri Lanka in place of
Dilhara Fernando.


Sri Lanka already have two Super Eight points following a win
over fellow group qualifiers Bangladesh.

