

The White House Wednesday denied ratching up tension with Iran
with increased military exercises in the Gulf region, but
stressed US support for Britain as Iran holds 15 of its sailors.


"These military exercises were long planned and so there is no
escalation of tension on our part," spokeswoman Dana Perino said.


"Now, we do stand with our British allies and stand behind (Prime
Minister) Tony Blair as he works to get these 15 soldiers back
from the Iranians," she said.


On Tuesday, the Pentagon said the exercise involving two US
aircraft carrier strike groups in the Gulf -- unusual because two
such naval formations are rarely in the same area at the same
time -- is aimed at reassuring friends and allies, not raising
tensions with Iran.


"We are not interested in confrontation in the Gulf," said
Pentagon spokesman Bryan Whitman.


The US Fifth Fleet, based in Bahrain, said two air wings from the
aircraft carriers would conduct exercises while warships from the
strike groups practice anti-submarine, anti-surface and mine
warfare.


President George W. Bush ordered a second US carrier to the Gulf
in January amid a mounting diplomatic confrontation with Iran
over its uranium enrichment program and US suspicions that it is
bent on developing nuclear weapons.


The second carrier raised the US naval presence in the Gulf to
its highest level since the 2003 invasion of Iraq.


Oil prices soared Wednesday in New York to their highest levels
in six months on fears of a burgeoning military conflict.


Iran controls traffic through the Strait of Hormuz, the
passageway to more than 40 percent of the world's energy, and has
in the past boasted of its power to strangle the world's energy
supply if pressured.


Amid mounting tensions over the soldiers' capture, Britain
announced a freeze on all official ties with Iran.

