

The French nun who was "miraculously" cured of Parkinson's
disease through the intercession of the late pope John Paul II
lives in the south of France, a religious news agency said
Wednesday.


The nun, whose identity is expected to be revealed on Sunday by
Aix-en-Provence Archbishop Claude Feidt, works at a Catholic
maternity hospital near the city, I-Media said.


Contacted by AFP, her order's Mother Superior Marie-Mathieu
refused to confirm the report, but said she was "waiting for a
statement by (the) bishop."


Feidt was attending a semi-annual meeting of French bishops --
which is nearly always held in the miracle city of Lourdes -- on
Wednesday.


The "postulator" spearheading the effort to beatify the late
pope, Monsignor Slawomir Oder, said Tuesday that the nun would
attend a ceremony in Rome on Monday marking the completion of the
first stage of the process -- the compilation of the dossier by
the Rome diocese.


The ceremony will take place on the second anniversary of John
Paul II's death.


Any dossier for beatification must include a miracle, but in the
case of the charismatic Polish pope "we were spoiled for choice,"
Oder said Tuesday.


He said the Aix-en-Provence nun's case was the "most impressive"
among those submitted to the Rome diocese -- of which the pope
was ex-officio bishop.


Her recovery was medically inexplicable and came about suddenly
after she prayed to John Paul II, himself consumed by
Parkinson's, shortly after he died.


Beatification is the main stepping stone to sainthood.

