

The dollar regained ground Wednesday after Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben Bernanke lowered expectations of an imminent
interest rate cut by saying the US central bank was keeping an
eye on inflation.


The euro fell to 1.3335 dollars in late European trades from
1.3344 dollars late Tuesday in New York.


The dollar dropped to 116.80 yen in European trade, from 117.91
yen late on Tuesday.


Bernanke told lawmakers on the US Congress' Joint Economic
Committee that he and colleagues on the Fed's interest-rate-
setting panel had not changed their official "bias" toward
inflation. But he added that the group wanted to ensure
flexibility for any future rate decisions.


But analysts said the dollar's rally was unlikely to last very
long.


"At first blush it would seem that the bias is intact as he says
that the Fed has not shifted away from an inflation bias," said
Divyang Shah, chief strategist at Commonwealth Bank of Australia.


"But the Fed is neutral, and while at the current juncture there
are concerns about inflation, if we get a sharper weakness in the
housing market or the employment outlook deteriorates then the
Fed would be more than willing to provide an easing."


Bernanke also eased fears when he said that the impact of
difficulties in the US mortgage market would spread into the
wider economy.


In his most extensive discussion of the problem to date, the Fed
chairman said problems in the sub-prime market seemed likely to
be contained.


Sub-prime borrowers are generally less wealthy and thus more
vulnerable to foreclosures when variable mortgage rates rise.


"On the face of his performance the dollar improved a little
because he is suggesting the sub-prime market's problems are not
spilling over and he sounded fairly upbeat when asked about the
chances of a recession," said Gavin Friend, currency strategist
at Commerzbank Corporates and Markets.


"However consumer data out this afternoon is terrible and
concerns about the housing and sub-prime market are likely to be
usurped by concerns about capital spending, he added.


Earlier in the day, US data showed new orders for durable goods
rose up 2.5 percent in February, after declining by a revised 9.3
percent in January -- the sharpest one-month fall since June
2000.


January's decline had initially been reported as an 8.7 percent
fall, while February's rise was slower than the 3.1 percent
increase economists had expected.


The news followed releases earlier this week of weaker-than-
expected US new home sales and consumer confidence data.


Elsewhere, the euro was little affected by European Central Bank
president Jean- Claude Trichet statement that ECB interest rates
were still "moderate"; and by the release of provisional German
inflation data.


Initial readings showed German consumer prices rose by 0.3
percent in March from February, and by 1.9 percent on a 12-month
basis, slightly above market expectations.


The euro was changing hands at 1.3335 dollars, against 1.3344
dollars on Tuesday, 155.66 yen (157.38), 0.6796 pounds (0.6790)
and 1.6185 Swiss francs (1.6201).


The dollar stood at 116.80 yen (117.91) and 1.2139 Swiss francs
(1.2137).


The pound was being traded at 1.9617 dollars (1.9651).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold rose to 666.75
dollars per ounce, from 664 dollars late on Tuesday.

