

China announced Thursday its 15th death from bird flu since late
2003, a 16 -year-old youth from eastern Anhui province.


The teenager from the town of Bengbu died on Tuesday night, state
media said, adding that he had been suffering symptoms of the
deadly H5N1 strain of the virus since March 17.


The boy, whose name was given only as Wu, was sent to hospital
the following day but an operation failed to save his life, the
official Xinhua news agency reported quoting health ministry
officials.


Later tests by the Chinese Centre for Disease Control and
Prevention confirmed that he had been infected with the deadly
H5N1 strain of the virus that has now claimed 170 lives worldwide
since late 2003.


Local health authorities said they were closely monitoring those
who had been in close contact with Wu but that so far they had
showed no symptoms of the disease. There was no bird flu epidemic
reported in Bengbu, they added.


The report said China's health ministry had alerted the World
Health Organisation (WHO) and health agencies in Hong Kong, Macau
and Taiwan.


The WHO says the deadly H5N1 strain of bird flu has infected 282
people and killed 169 of them, mostly in Southeast Asia, since
2003. That figure does not include Wu.


Scientists say multiple strains of the disease originated in
southern China and spread elsewhere.


They fear the virus could mutate into a form easily spread among
humans, leading to a global pandemic with the potential to kill
millions.


The fear stems from the lessons of past influenza pandemics. One
in 1918, just after the end of World War I, killed 20 million
people worldwide.

