

US stocks fell heavily late Wednesday morning amid economic
concerns as Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke told Congress
the outlook for the depressed housing market was "uncertain."


Bernanke said the housing downturn did not appear to have spread
into the wider economy yet, but his remarks appeared to dash
investors' optimism.


At 1614 GMT, the Dow Jones Industrial Average was down a hefty
81.47 points (0.66 percent) at 12,315.82 and the Nasdaq composite
had lost 14.55 points (0.60 percent) to 2,422.88.


The broad-market Standard and Poor's 500 dropped 7.68 points
(0.54 percent) to 1,420.93.


"Thus far, the weakness in housing and manufacturing does not
appear to have spilled over to any significant extent to other
sectors of the economy," Bernanke said in prepared remarks to
Congress' Joint Economic Committee.


"Overall, the economy appears likely to continue to expand at a
moderate pace over the coming quarters," he said, adding however,
that "the near-term prospects for the housing market remain
uncertain."


Investors also expressed unease over Bernanke's stance that
inflation risks could still threaten economic growth going
forward, particularly amid a surge in oil prices this week over
geopolitical fears related to Iran.


"Aside from the jump in oil prices, the realization that
Bernanke's commentary today has reinforced the view that a rate
cut isn't likely to happen anytime soon has weighed on
sentiment," analysts at Briefing.com said in a note to investors.


A weaker-than-expected report on durable goods orders also
weighed down stocks.


Orders for manufactured US durable goods rebounded 2.5 percent in
February, primarily as demand for new civilian and military
aircraft picked up, the Commerce Department said, but the rebound
was weaker than most analysts had anticipated.


Most analysts had expected that orders for big-ticket
manufactured goods, including cars, aircraft and washing
machines, would increase 3.5 percent.


"Given how weak orders were in January, the February gain is
disappointing and may point to more generalized weakness in the
economy," said Joel Naroff,  of Naroff Economic Advisors.


On the stock front, home builder stocks remained under pressure.
Lennar homes was down 1.35 dollars at 43.15 dollars while KB Home
was 1.33 dollars lower at 43.98 dollars. Another homebuilder,
Beazer Homes, plunged 3.17 dollars or 10 percent to 28.24 after
disclosing a federal probe into potentially fraudulent practices.


But declines were also spread across other sectors. ExxonMobil
had shed 12 cents to 75.59 dollars while General Motors was 72
cents lower at 31.46 dollars, but Citigroup was up nine cents at
51.17 dollars.


Oil and bond prices rose.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, spiked 1.58 dollars to 64.51 dollars.


Bond prices also soared as the yield on the 10-year US Treasury
bond fell to 4.577 percent from 4.612 percent Tuesday and that on
the 30-year bond dropped to 4.788 percent against 4.809 percent.
Bond yields and prices move in opposite directions.

