

The United Nations Security Council has ruled that some 700
former Bosnian police officers, dismissed by a UN police task
force, may reapply for their job, a top international official
said Wednesday.


The decision "means that former officers are no longer prohibited
from applying for jobs as police officers" provided they meet
conditions set out by the UN, said a statement by the
international community's high representative.


The conditions for the recruitment of the sacked policemen were
not disclosed.


"This is the best solution possible," High Representative
Christian Schwarz- Schilling said, welcoming the decision on the
long-standing issue.


The UN International Police Task Force (IPTF) was deployed in
Bosnia after the country's 1992-1995 war with the brief to train
its police forces.


In charge of overseeing the reduction of local police forces, the
IPTF dismissed some 700 police officers for misconduct, for
failing to fulfill strict service criteria, or for their alleged
involvement in war crimes.


The sacked officers were also barred from taking any new law
enforcement jobs.


The IPTF was later disbanded and taken over by the European Union
in 2003.


Many police officers have protested against their dismissal
saying it violated their human rights.


Last December some of them staged hunger strikes asking the
Bosnian government to assist them in solving the problem.


Around 260 of the officers called for their cases to be reviewed
claiming the sackings were unfair as they had been based on minor
disciplinary proceedings.

