

French President Jacques Chirac, who leaves office in two weeks
after 12 years in power, bid a solemn farewell to staff at the
Elysee presidential palace on Wednesday.


Speaking to several hundred staff members and advisors gathered
at the Elysee palace in presence of his wife Bernadette, the 74
-year-old Chirac urged them to "do honour to France and the
French people" under his successor.


"As I prepare to serve France and the French people in a
different way, I fully measure the extent to which you helped me
fulfil my mission," said Chirac, who officially stands down on
May 16 at midnight.


"In a few days the French people will make a choice that is
essential for their future," he said, four days from Sunday's
presidential run-off between right- winger Nicolas Sarkozy, 52,
and the Socialist Segolene Royal, 53.


"Whatever choice they make, you will have a major role to play in
ensuring the continuity of the state."


Chirac, who ruled out seeking a third term in March, has given
his official backing to Sarkozy, the candidate for the ruling
Union for a Popular Movement (UMP) and frontrunner to succeed
him.


But the two men have a stormy political relationship: once the
president's protege, Sarkozy campaigned on a pledge to break with
his record in power, insisting he is not Chirac's natural "heir".


Chirac's departure will end a four-decade career and mark the end
of an era in France, as he hands over to a younger rival on the
left or right.


The veteran leader, who spearheaded worldwide opposition to the
US-led invasion of Iraq in 2003, has indicated he would like to
chair an international foundation, promoting causes close to his
heart such as the environment and non- European cultures.

