

Former "Spice Girl" Melanie Brown has lashed out at film star and
former boyfriend Eddie Murphy, insisting the veteran funnyman is
the father of her one- month-old daughter.


In an interview to be broadcast by the syndicated entertainment
news show "Extra," Brown said she was baffled by her split with
Murphy last year and his subsequent refusal to acknowledge
paternity of the child, Angel Iris.


"I don't know what happened and I still don't know what
happened," Brown said in excerpts on the interview released by
"Extra" on Wednesday.


"We had a few little disagreements and things that we were
working though, but I didn't think for one second it was
completely over -- my main thing now is I want him to be a
responsible parent."


Brown, better known as "Scary Spice" during the British girl
band's heyday, revealed she had planned her pregnancy with
Murphy, the star of "Dreamgirls," "Beverly Hills Cop" and
"Shrek."


"This baby was planned and he knows it's his -- this is what's
mind-boggling," the 31-year-old singer said.


Murphy told an interviewer last year that he and Brown had split
up and that he wasn't sure who the father of her child was,
indicating that a paternity test would be the only way to be
sure.


However Brown said Murphy had refused a paternity test.


"She (Angel Iris) can't speak, she can't defend herself, and I've
got a situation where I'm dealing with a father who won't do a
DNA test, who won't sign the birth certificate, she added.


"So, now I have to go through lawyers and I think it's really
sad."

