

A suicide bomber targeting a police patrol blew up a vehicle in
the Baghdad Shiite district of Sadr City Wednesday, killing 10
people and bringing the day's grim toll to 29, a security source
said.


Another 35 people were wounded when the bomber rammed the vehicle
into the patrol not far from the Imam Ali hospital, the source
said. At least two policemen were among the dead.


Car bombs targeting Iraq's majority Shiite population, the
hallmark of Al-Qaeda militants, continue to detonate almost daily
in Baghdad despite a two-month-old joint US-Iraqi security
operation to stem the bloodshed.


"We've seen an uptick in the total number of car bomb attacks
which have in some cases created some very spectacular casualty
figures," admitted US military spokesman Rear Admiral Mark Fox.


Sectarian death squad attacks, generally perpetrated by Shiite
militias in revenge for the car bombs, have been on the decline,
he added.


A salvo of three mortar rounds slammed into a market in the
southwest Baghdad neighbourhood of Abu Chir, killing three people
and wounding eight.


South of Baghdad, a bomb ripped through a minibus in Mahmudiyah,
killing 11 passengers, the town's mayor Muayad Fadhil said.


The minibus was en route from Baghdad to the mainly Shiite
provincial capital of Hilla and was the second plying the route
to be attacked in as many days. On Tuesday, gunmen killed 11
passengers on a minibus as it passed through the nearby town of
Iskandiriyah.


A mortar attack against a primary school in Iskandiriyah on
Wednesday killed a young girl and wounded her teacher, police
Lieutenant Kadhim Kashash said.


Mortar fire against a residential district of Mahmudiyah killed
three people and wounded 20.


The confessionally mixed agricultural region south of Baghdad has
been the focus of persistent violence earning it the monicker the
triangle of death.


In overwhelmingly Shiite southern Iraq, gunmen killed a policeman
in the city of Amara.

