

The United States on Wednesday urged Sudan to comply with arrest
warrants issued by the International Criminal Court (ICC) for a
Sudanese minister and a militia leader over the Darfur conflict.


"We very strongly support accountability for those who are
responsible for Darfur," White House spokesman Tony Snow said
after the court, which has been opposed by the United States,
handed out its first warrants.


"We expect the government of Sudan to comply with the obligations
under United Nations Security Council Resolution 1593 and and
cooperate with the ICC," Snow told reporters.


The two men are: Ahmed Haroun, Sudan's secretary of state for
humanitarian affairs and a former minister in charge of Darfur;
and Ali Kosheib, a principal leader of the Khartoum-backed
Janjaweed.


They face a long list of 42 and 50 charges of crimes against
humanity and war crimes respectively.


According to the United Nations, some 200,000 people have been
killed and two million forced to flee their homes since the start
of the Darfur conflict, now in its fifth year. Sudan says that
only 9,000 have died.


The United States was one of the few major Western states to
oppose the 2002 creation of the ICC, largely out of fear US
troops could be the targets of politically motivated
prosecutions.


But amid increasing frustration with Sudan's obstruction of
international efforts to end the killing in Darfur, Washington
has not sought to block ICC action against the Khartoum
government.

