

The European Commission said Wednesday it still hoped to reach a
new partnership agreement with Russia despite tensions between
Brussels and Moscow over issues ranging from energy to human
rights.


The comments came after talks between European commissioners
aimed at examining the problems and advantages of ties with
Moscow ahead of an EU-Russia summit in the Russian city of Samara
on May 17-18.


"The EU and Russia have a common interest to work together,"
chief Commission spokesman Johannes Laitenberger said following
the talks in Brussels.


"There are a number of issues and dossiers which raise concern
and on which clearly more work is needed," he added, though he
was reluctant to list them.


The current EU-Russia partnership accord runs out at the end of
this year and the European Union is keen to renew it to take into
account the new geopolitical realities since it was drawn up a
decade ago.


Chief among the changes has been Russia's more assertive use of
its energy resources, of which the 27-member EU is a major
consumer.


More recently, differences have emerged over the future status of
Kosovo, whose "supervised independence" Russia is threatening to
veto, and with Moscow's row with Estonia over a Soviet war
memorial.


But the main factor holding up talks on the new cooperation
agreement has been Russia's ban on foodstuffs from Poland, which
it imposed in November 2005 after accusing Warsaw of bad food-
safety practices.


Laitenberger said the commissioners had underlined that in
relations involving Russia, the EU would act with the "solidarity
of all its member states" uppermost in mind.

