

British Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett arrived in Egypt on
Wednesday for an international conference where diplomats hope to
make a push to solve problems that have plagued Iraq since it was
invaded by coalition forces in 2003.


Beckett, noting that Iraq's neighbours and other countries in the
Middle East have a "central role" in helping Iraq stabilise, will
join Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki and President Jalal
Talabani as they prepare to launch the International Compact with
Iraq (ICI), the foreign ministry here said.


The ICI is an initiative offering a framework aimed at achieving
stability and prosperity within five years and which is due to
take place on Thursday, when the conference starts in earnest.


She will also attend a so-called "Expanded Neighbours Meeting" on
Friday along with Bahrain, Egypt, the Arab League, the
Organisation of the Islamic Conference, the Group of Eight
industrialised nations, the permanent members of the UN Security
Council and representatives of the European Union.


Beckett described the ICI as "the most comprehensive and serious
reform programme any government in the region has committed
itself to," in a statement released by the foreign ministry.


"We have always recognised that Iraq's neighbours, and other
regional states, have a central role in promoting success in
Iraq, especially in the pursuit of national reconciliation," she
said.


"That will be the main focus of my discussions with Iraqi
ministers and those from neighbouring states."


Britain has about 7,100 soldiers in Iraq, most of whom are in the
southern city of Basra and surrounding areas, though the
government has pledged to withdraw about 1,600 this year.

