

The US State Department's number two diplomat John Negroponte
will visit Colombia, Ecuador, Peru and Panama next week to
discuss trade, energy and cooperation issues, the department
announced Wednesday.


Negroponte, who in February moved to the state department from
his position as Director of National Intelligence, will visit the
four countries during May 7-12, said department spokesman Tom
Casey.


The trip will focus on pending trade agreements, energy issues
and regional cooperation, Casey said.


"Following the president's 2007 visit to the region, the deputy
secretary's also going to be highlighting some of the issues that
the president talked about, including advancing the cause of
social justice in the Western Hemisphere and supporting
governments that are fair and effective and that meet the basic
needs of their citizens," he added.


"I also expect he'll be talking about a wide range of bilateral
issues in these countries not only with government officials, but
also in meetings with local business executives and civil society
representatives, human rights groups."


Negroponte's reputation in Latin America is shaded by his
controversial role as US ambassador to Honduras in the early
1980s when the country's government allegedly engaged in
widespread human rights violations without significant censure
from Washington.


Casey said that he will be accompanied on his trip by the State
Department's assistant secretary for Western Hemisphere affairs,
Tom Shannon.

