

Ghana's agriculture minister on Wednesday reported the West
African country's first case of the deadly H5N1 strain of the
bird flu virus in poultry.


Minister Ernest Debrah told journalists the case was "detected
April 24 near Tema," a port city to the east of the capital
Accra.


The veterinary services team "went to the farm and took immediate
measures to prevent the spread of the disease. A complete ban was
placed on the movement of poultry and poultry products out of the
farm," Debrah said.


Some 1,700 birds were culled on and around the premises, he
added.


The minister said the team is still conducting investigations to
determine how the H5N1 virus strain entered the farm.


"The team has heightened surveillance and testing on suspicious
birds and is working to ensure any potential cases are found,"
Debrah said.


The World Health Organisation issues frequent warnings about the
importance of strengthening surveillance systems so that bird flu
cases can be detected early and appropriate measures can be taken
to avoid the spread of the virus.


Ghana as early as January 2004 banned poultry imports from nine
Asian nations plus Taiwan in a bid to prevent bird flu from
entering the country.


Nearby Nigeria, which reported its first case of H5N1 in February
2006, recorded its first human death from the virus strain less
than a year later.


The WHO has warned that while humans have so far only caught the
deadly H5N1 strain of bird flu through contact with infected
birds or their droppings, it could claim millions of lives if it
mutates into a form that can be spread among humans.

