

Kenya's top marathon runners led by three-time Boston marathon
champion Robert Cheruiyot on Wednesday snubbed a government award
ceremony in reaction to a statement by the country's sports
minister over their earnings.


Sports Minister Maina Kamanda had said the runners, who have
dominated the big city marathon races in the past month, did not
deserved to be given more money by the government but only the
recognition considering they were already winning bigger
prizemoney overseas.


"Even if the government wishes not to recognise us, we can as
well refuse to represent the country in the Olympics and the
Commonwealth Games," Cheruiyot told reporters at another award
presentation ceremony on Tuesday.


"Other countries are doing it and I don't know why Kenya is an
exception," he said.


The invited marathoners - winners in Boston, London, Madrid,
Paris, Rotterdam and Salt Lake City - did not attend the lunch
award ceremony where Kamanda presented cash prizes worth 2.3
million shillings (33,000 dollars) to the world cross country
winning team and their coaches.


Kamanda played down the fiasco saying the government had already
shown recognition by sending congratulatory messages to the
athletes after their achievements.


"We do recognise these athletes and we are telling them not to
shout. Even now we have bought a token of recognition for them,"
said Kamanda in reference to the electrical appliances of a
microwave for each of the champions.


"They are after recognition which we have done as a government.
With time they can even get a head of state recognition," Kamanda
added.


Athletics Kenya (AK) chairman Isaiah Kiplagat said the
marathoners will only be given cash prizes if they win medals at
the World championships and the Olympic Games.


A provisional marathon team to represent Kenya in the world
championships in Osaka, Japan, in August is expected to be named
later this week.

