

A flurry of news on mergers and takeovers helped US stocks keep
upward momentum Wednesday as media stocks led the upside and blue
chips rose to yet another record.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average climbed 75.75 points (0.58
percent) to close at 13,211.88, as the blue-chip index posted its
17th record close this year and 21st gain in 24 days.


The tech-heavy Nasdaq composite rallied 26.31 points (1.04
percent) to 2,557.84, holding at a six-year high.


The broad-market Standard & Poor's 500 index rose 9.62 points
(0.65 percent) to 1,495.92, its strongest level since September
2000.


A driving factor was "renewed attention to media stocks," said
Joseph Hargett at Schaeffer's Investment Research after the hefty
five-billion-dollar bid by Rupert Murdoch's News Corp. for Dow
Jones & Co., publisher of The Wall Street Journal.


The surprise bid lifted other media stocks and fueled speculation
about more merger and takeover efforts in the sector.


Hargett added there were "rumors circulating that NYSE Euronext
could make a bid for the International Securities Exchange
effectively crashing Deutsche Boerse's 2.8-billion-dollar
takeover of the American exchange."


Also in takeover news, Cablevision Systems signed a deal that
would transfer the big cable TV operator to a private entity
headed by the founding Dolan family for 22 billion dollars.


Sentiment was helped by news that US factory orders rose a
stronger-than- expected 3.1 percent, helping ease concerns about
softening economic conditions.


The market has been able to set new records despite indications
of weak US economic activity, witnessed by the tepid 1.3 percent
gross domestic product (GDP) growth pace in the first quarter of
2007.


"The fact that stocks have been as strong as they have suggests a
strong degree of conviction in the 'looking over the trough'
theory," said Gregory Drahuschak at Janney Montgomery Scott.


"If this works out, stocks have a lot more to offer over the
balance of this year and well into 2008."


Drahuschak said the market is "looking over a short-lived GDP
slowdown toward a time when the Fed (Federal Reserve) will cut
rates, which would reignite GDP growth."


Among stocks in focus, Time Warner gained 35 cents or 1.7 percent
to 20.94 dollars as a lackluster earnings report by the world's
biggest media- entertainment firm was offset by the focus on the
media industry in the wake of the stunning offer by News Corp.
for Dow Jones.


Dow Jones saw its own shares fall 20 cents to 56.00 after a surge
of more than 50 percent on Tuesday. News Corp., which owns a
media empire of film, television and publishing assets, rebounded
with a gain of 40 cents to 23.43.


Elsewhere in media, the New York Times Co. rose 70 cents to 25.28
and the Belo newspaper chain's shares rose 42 cents to 20.25.


Another upside leader was Cablevision, which surged 3.23 dollars
or nearly 10 percent to 35.90 on news that it would go private in
a 22-billion-dollar deal.


Bonds drifted lower. The yield on the 10-year US Treasury bond
increased to 4.646 percent from 4.642 percent Tuesday and that on
the 30-year bond edged up to 4.819 percent against 4.816 percent.
Bond yields and prices move in opposite directions.

