

Europe's stock markets rose on Wednesday, propelled by record
levels on Wall Street and media takeover news.


In closing deals London's FTSE 100 index jumped 1.01 percent to
6,484.50 points.


In Paris the CAC 40 gained 0.50 percent to 5,990.13 points, after
earlier hitting 6,001.17 for the first time since December 2000,
while in Frankfurt the Dax gained 0.64 percent to 7,455.93
points, its highest level for seven years.


The Euro Stoxx 50 index of leading eurozone shares gained 0.53
percent to close at 4,415.48 points.


The euro was changing hands at 1.3598 dollars.


In the United States a flurry of news on mergers and takeovers
helped Wall Street keep upward momentum as media stocks led the
upside in the wake of a surprise bid by News Corp. for Dow Jones
& Co.


In Tokyo Japanese share prices ended with a solid gain, helped by
Wall Street and a weak yen.


In Europe, the Paris market was lifted by media shares, which
triumphed after News Corp. launched its five-billion dollar bid
Tuesday for Dow Jones in a bold move to add the prestigious Wall
Street Journal business daily to Rupert Murdoch's vast media
empire.


French media and technology group Lagardere surged 2.24 percent
to 59.22 euros points to head the CAC 40.


In London, British satellite TV broadcaster BSkyB rocketed 5.47
percent to 616.50 pence, but dealers said this was largely owing
to stronger-than-expected customer growth figures for its fiscal
third quarter.


Another strong riser was platinum producer Lonmin, which hit a
record level of 3,580 pence, after the company raised its
dividend and maintained its full-year guidance.


In Frankfurt the DAX ended on its highest level for seven years
on a raft of encouraging first quarter results. Auto equipment
maker Continental led the field gaining 2.97 percent to 105.52
euros.


In Wall Street in early trading the Dow Jones Industrial Average
climbed 57.37 points (0.44 percent) to 13,193.51, as the blue-
chip index extended its gains after closing at another record
high Tuesday.


The tech-heavy Nasdaq composite increased 14.93 points (0.59
percent) to 2,546.46 and the broad-market Standard & Poor's
500 index rose 6.57 points (0.44 percent) to 1,492.87.


A driving factor "is renewed attention to media stocks," said
Joseph Hargett at Schaeffer's Investment Research.


On Wednesday in Asia, the Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index
of leading shares ended 0.69-percent higher at 17,394.92 points.


Dealers said that trading was relatively quiet ahead of a four-
day holiday weekend in Tokyo.


Hong Kong's key Hang Seng Index closed up 0.34 percent, led by
index heavyweight HSBC following news that a unit of Dubai
International Capital (DIC) has made a substantial investment in
the global banking giant.


Elsewhere in Europe, in Milan the SP/Mib rose 0.19 percent to
43,836 points, in Madrid the Ibex 35 rose 0.29 percent to
14,416.9 points, in Amsterdam the AEX rose 0.27 percent to 532.23
points and the Belgian Bel 20 rose 1.32 percent to 4,675.87
points.


In Zurich the SMI index rose 0.18 percent to 9,444.95 points.

