

German rider Markus Fothen (GST) won the first stage of the Tour
de Romandie on Wednesday, but Italian Paolo Savoldelli retained
his leader's yellow jersey after his Astana team controlled the
race.     Spaniard Francisco Perez (GCE) was second in a two-way
sprint finish with the German, followed just seconds behind by
Caisse d'Epargne teammmate Joaquin Rodriguez and the bunched
peloton at La-Chaux-de-Fonds after 157.8 km.


Fothen's win in the northern Swiss town took him to third place
in the general standings behind the 32 year-old Savoldelli and
Czech Roman Kreuziger.


Five riders broke away just 18 kilometres into the stage and
their valiant effort only came to an end 125 kilometres later.


Veteran Frenchman Laurent Brochard (BTL) and the youngest rider
in the race, 20 -year-old Italian Eros Capecchi (LIQ), drove the
group to a 4min 30sec lead over the main peloton.


However, Savoldelli's Astana team reeled them in on the
undulating final stretch through the Jura hills and the main
peloton swallowed up the leading duo in the final half hour of
the race.


Fothen and Perez narrowly held on to a late breakaway just 10
kilometres from the finish, but their initial 18 second gap
melted as Savoldelli accelerated to defend his yellow jersey.


"If the racing allows us, we won't miss our chance because the
Astana team has the means to control the race," Savoldelli had
warned after winning the prologue Tuesday.


Last year's Tour de Romandie winner, Australian Cadel Evans, made
up for lost time in Tuesday's prologue with a fifth place in the
northern Swiss city, remaining just seconds adrift of the leader.


Evans nonetheless said he was leaving the early running in the
six stage tour to his Predictor Lotto teammate Chris Horner of
the United States and keeping his eye on the climbs of the final
Alpine stages and time trial on Sunday.


"The first two or three days are just right for Chris. But after
Thursday, the last two or three days are the best for me," Evans
said.

