

The dollar rose against the euro on Wednesday after a survey on
the US manufacturing sector revealed unexpected strength,
reducing the chances of an interest rate cut by the Federal
Reserve, analysts say.


The euro was changing hands at 1.3598 dollars, against 1.3606
late on Tuesday.


The dollar was changing hands at 120.06 yen, after earlier
striking a two-month peak of 120.28 yen.


The European single currency has edged down from its all time
high of 1.3682 dollars, which was struck last Friday. During
trading on Wednesday it dropped to its week-low of 1.3561
dollars, before recovering as operators avoided risk- taking
ahead of key US employment data on Friday.


"The dollar has recovered notably against the euro and briefly
broke above the 120.00 level against the yen in response to the
surprisingly strong ISM manufacturing report for April," said
Derek Halpenny, senior currency economist at The Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi.


He added: "However, market participants are probably not yet
convinced by the ISM report and the euro is likely to hold in
close to current levels at least until the employment report on
Friday."


The Institute of Supply Management's index of US industrial
activity rose to 54.7 from 50.9 in March, beating market
expectations for a slight gain to 51.0.


According to analysts, the data made it more likely that the US
Federal Reserve would maintain interest rates at the current
level of 5.25 percent when it meets on May 9.


"The robustness of the (ISM) report will, for some, call into
question the idea of a gradual slowdown in activity and, with the
aid of anticipated weaker labour market data, eventual Fed rate
cuts," said Commerzbank analyst Gavin Friend.


He added: "We have argued a modest retracement higher in the
dollar is due and we may yet see an unwinding of euro/dollar that
takes us to the 1.3475-1.3520 area before Friday's employment
report."


In Turkey the lira, which had dropped as low as 1.39 to the
dollar, was trading at 1.3617 on Wednesday, after the Islamist-
rooted government pushed for snap elections and a comprehensive
set of reforms to resolve a crisis over presidential elections.


One day after the constitutional court annulled a first-round
vote in parliament to elect the next president, Prime Minister
Recep Tayyip Erdogan's government on Wednesday formally applied
to parliament to bring legislative elections forward to June 24.


The parliamentary vote -- in which Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul,
a former Islamist, is the sole candidate -- had raised tensions
with the army, which threatened last week to intervene to protect
the country's secular order.


Elsewhere, business in Asia was relatively quiet as players took
to the sidelines ahead of a four-day holiday weekend in Tokyo,
beginning on Thursday, dealers said.


The euro changed hands at 1.3598 dollars, against 1.3606 dollars
late Tuesday, 163.28 yen (162.99), 0.6830 pounds (0.6805) and
1.6505 Swiss francs (1.6517).


The dollar stood at 120.06 yen (119.78) and 1.2140 Swiss francs
(1.2143).


The pound was being traded at 1.9909 dollars (1.9985).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold was stable at
669.50 dollars per ounce, from 673.60 dollars late on Tuesday.

