

An 81-year-old woman who made her neighbours' lives a misery by
verbally abusing them had her jail sentence cut from six to four
months by a British court Wednesday.


Dorothy Evans sat in a wheelchair dressed in a bright pink summer
suit and white sun hat, listening through a hearing device as
judges at the Court of Appeal in London decided to reduce her
punishment.


Her February trial in Cardiff, Wales heard that she breached an
anti-social behaviour order by calling her neighbour, Angela
Casa, a prostitute, telling Casa's daughter she was a witch and
threatening to cast a spell on the family.


The grievance harboured by Evans, of Abergavenny, south Wales,
stemmed from a flooding problem at her home, which prevented her
selling it and which she blamed on her neighbours, both past and
present.


Describing hers as a "sad case," judge Nicholas Underhill said it
was rare for courts to jail someone as old as she was, adding the
decision was only taken "as a last resort and with great
reluctance."


But he added: "Old age is not a licence to disregard the law or
the requirements of decent behaviour towards others in the
community."


Evans's lawyer, David Webster, said that she was "desperately
frightened by the circumstances in which she finds herself" and
had been left bleeding after an attack by a fellow prisoner
Tuesday.


She was originally jailed last month after being convicted of one
count of harassment and six breaches of her anti-social behaviour
order.

