

Australian Simon Katich showed no ill-effects from having been
dropped by his national side's 25-man international squad on
Tuesday to hit an unbeaten double century a day later.


Katich hit 220 not out as Derbyshire blasted to 448 for four
against Somerset at Taunton in the County Championship Division
One clash.


Katich's unbroken 241-run partnership with compatriot Ian Harvey,
who managed 123 not out, proved the undoing on a day of toil for
Somerset.


Former England paceman Andy Caddick claimed two early victims but
eventually went for more than four an over as the batsmen
dominated.


Kent fought a defiant rearguard action to frustrate title-holders
Sussex on the first day of their Division One clash at
Canterbury.


The hosts looked in deep trouble at 66 for four as Pakistani
bowler Rana Naved- ul-Hasan and Robin Martin-Jenkins claimed a
brace of early wickets each.


But out of favour England wicketkeeper Geraint Jones (49) helped
to steady the ship before a 148-run partnership between
centurions Matt Walker (103) and Pakistani Yasir Arafat (122),
who played for Sussex last season, guided Kent towards a
respectable final total of 368.


Martin-Jenkins starred with the ball for Sussex, claiming five
for 67.


The visitors struggled to 19 for two before the close as Arafat
removed veteran Richard Montgomerie and nightwatchman James
Kirtley for ducks.


England captain Michael Vaughan showed a much desired return to
form after a dismal World Cup as he scored 72 for Yorkshire
before being run out against Hampshire.


Pakistan's Younis Khan top-scored with 106, while rising star
Adil Rashid also hit a half-century as the Tykes made a
disappointing 299 all out after their lower order folded cheaply.


In reply, Shane Warne's men were 25 without loss at the end of
the day's play.

