

Los Angeles police chief William Bratton on Wednesday promised an
investigation into clashes that marred immigration protests,
suggesting there had been "inappropriate" behavior by officers.


Television images showed baton-wielding police in riot gear
clubbing journalists and firing rubber bullets after scuffles
broke out following a day-long rally involving several thousand
protestors on Tuesday.


Around 10 protestors suffered minor injuries in the violence, Los
Angeles Fire Department officials told local media, while police
said 15 officers were hurt in the trouble.


Bratton, who was appointed five years ago with a brief to clean
up the Los Angeles Police Department's (LAPD's) image, said he
would seek to hold an "open" internal inquiry into the violence.


Bratton also hinted that after watching footage of the incident
police may have over-reacted.


"Some of what I've seen as chief of the department does not look
appropriate," Bratton told local radio station KNX.


"There were some scenes there, clearly, based on my years of
experience and the years of experience of many of my command
staff, did not appear to be (appropriate)."


Bratton described the disturbances as "a series of very fluid
events -- there were multiple things going on."


He said the Police Commission would "be fully involved in terms
of staying abreast of it ... and we'll try to do this as openly
as we can."


Television reports showed a police officer knocking down a
cameraman, then grabbing the camera and tossing it to the ground.


The police tactics were condemned by journalist body the Radio
and Television News Association (RTNA).


"There is evidence that officers knocked reporters to the ground,
used batons on photographers and damaged cameras, possibly
motivated by anger over journalists photographing efforts by
officers to control the movements of marchers," an RTNA statement
said.

