

A coalition of more than 40 human rights groups on Tuesday urged
UN member states not to elect Belarus to the world body's top
rights panel because of its record on the issue.


In a joint letter, the New York-based Human Rights Watch and more
than 40 other local and international rights groups called on
governments to ensure that Belarus, which is running as a member
of the East European group, is rebuffed in elections to the Human
Rights Council slated for May 17.


No country can be elected unless an absolute majority (or 97
members) of the UN General Assembly writes in the name of the
candidate on a ballot.


The Geneva-based council was created last year to replace the
discredited Human Rights Commission as part of UN reforms.


"Belarus has an appalling human rights record," said Peggy Hicks,
global advocacy director at Human Rights Watch. "Belarus's
election to the top UN human rights body would undermine the
council's ability to uphold human rights standards worldwide."


Belarussian President Alexander Lukashenko, who has ruled Belarus
since 1994 and is dubbed "Europe's last dictator" in some Western
capitals, allows no criticism in the state-controlled media and
has imposed severe restrictions on opposition rallies.


His re-election last year was welcomed in Moscow but
international observers said the vote was rigged and Western
countries imposed sanctions on Lukashenko and his entourage after
a wave of arrests of protesters.


Last December, the 192-member UN General Assembly expressed deep
concern with Belarus's human rights record and failure to
cooperate with the council, and insisted on the need for change.

