

Militants travelling in civilian vehicles opened fire on police
in southern Afghanistan, sparking a battle which killed 13
people, some of them civilians, a governor said Wednesday.


"Thirteen people have died. We don't know yet how many of them
were Taliban and how many civilians, though we know that two
women were also killed," provincial governor Asadullah Kahlid
told a news conference in Kandahar city.


The casualties occurred after armed men in three cars opened fire
on police when they were stopped at a checkpoint Tuesday in the
Maruf district of the southern province of Kandahar, he said.


An investigation would determine how many civilians were among
the dead, he added.


The US-led coalition said earlier that its forces had been
involved in the incident and that five of eight insurgents in the
three cars were killed.


News of the clash comes as authorities and the United Nations
announced in the capital, Kabul, that around 50 civilians were
among the dead in a US-led military operation in western Herat
province.


The US-led force said scores of rebels were killed in the
operation over the weekend.


But the dead included many women and children, separate Afghan
government and police investigations found.


The coalition has said 136 Taliban fighters were killed in
clashes on Friday and Sunday in the province's Shindand district,
which involved aerial bombing.


President Hamid Karzai summoned the top military general in
Afghanistan to his palace Wednesday to express concern about the
civilian casualties, which are causing growing anger among
Afghans.

