

Ireland's High Court will Thursday hear an appeal against a
decision preventing a teenager from travelling to Britain for an
abortion, in an emotional challenge to the Catholic country's
strict laws.


The 17-year-old girl, identified only as Miss D, is four months
pregnant and has recently learned her child suffers from a
condition where it is only expected to live for days outside the
womb.


Because the girl is a minor the legal proceedings have been
brought by her boyfriend on her behalf. The girl is in health
authority care under a court order. The authority has refused to
allow her to travel.


The case has arisen in the first week of a general election
campaign in Ireland with Prime Minister Bertie Ahern seeking a
record third term for his Fianna Fail-Progressive Democrats
coalition.


Abortion has been one of the most debated issues in Irish
politics and has been a hugely contentious issue in the country
for decades.


Several constitution plebiscites have been held since a first
pro-life amendment to protect the unborn in 1983 was passed by 67
percent after a bitter debate.


Abortion is currently illegal in Ireland under an 1861 British
law unless in circumstances where there is a real and substantial
risk to the life of the mother, including suicide.


The law does not permit abortion on grounds of foetal
abnormality.


Every year over 6,000 Irish women travel to British clinics to
have an abortion.


The new abortion quandary is very similar to one in 1992, the
"X-case", when a 14-year-old became pregnant and the state took
legal action to stop her family taking her to Britain for an
abortion.


In the X-case, the Supreme Court -- Ireland's highest court - in
effect legislated by over-ruling a High Court decision and saying
abortion was legal if there was a "real and substantial risk" to
the life of the mother, including the threat of suicide.

