

A US commission on Wednesday called for Vietnam to be reinstated
on Washington's blacklist of countries which violate the right to
religious freedom.


"We recommend that Vietnam be re-designated as a CPC (country of
particular concern) in 2007," the US Commission on International
Religious Freedom wrote in its annual report.


It said that since Hanoi was taken off the blacklist in November
2006 and it joined the WTO "positive religious freedom trends
have, for the most part stalled" amid a crackdown on human rights
activists.


The authoritarian Southeast Asian nation was taken off the US
State Department's list of countries of particular concern (CPCs)
on the eve of a visit to Hanoi by President George W. Bush.


At the time, the US commission voiced disappointment at the
decision "citing continued arrests and detentions of individuals
in part because of their religious activities and continued
severe religious freedom restrictions targeting some ethnic
minority Protestants and Buddhists."


It recognized there had been positive religious freedom
developments by the ruling Communist Party with the release of
prominent religious prisoners and the end to enforced
renunciations of faith.


But added such improvements were "insufficient" and it had been
"too soon to determine if the legal protections would be
permanent and whether such progress would last beyond Vietnam's
accession to the World Trade Organization."


The commission also recommended that 10 other countries be kept
on the list: China, Eritrea, Iran, North Korea, Myanmar,
Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan.

