

Morocco's supreme court on Wednesday put off until May 30
considering an extradition request from London for two men wanted
for the largest cash robbery in British history, one of the
suspects' defence lawyers said.


London has requested that Morocco extradite Lee Lamrani Ibrahim
Murray, who is accused of masterminding the theft of 53 million
pounds (77 million euros, 105 million dollars) from a Securitas
cash depot in southeast England in February last year, as well as
his suspected accomplice Paul Allen.


Murray's defence lawyer Abdellah Belmhidi Aissaoui said Wednesday
the prosecution had requested the delay in order to review a
document he had submitted from his client's father proving that
Murray, who holds a British passport, is also Moroccan.


"The extradition of Moroccan Lee Murray is not possible if one
respects Moroccan law, because it blocks extraditing a Moroccan
citizen regardless of whatever he stands accused of," Aissaoui
said.


A martial arts cage fighter who is well known to fight fans in
Britain, Murray has told the court he wishes to stay in Morocco.


The two men, who are being held in preventive custody in Sale,
near Rabat, were arrested along with two other Britons and two
Moroccans in Rabat last June.


Murray and Allen were in February sentenced to eight months
behind bars, time already served, for crimes committed in the
north-west African country, including drug use and possession and
assaulting a police officer.


On Wednesday, a court in Sale hearing an appeal on that verdict
adjourned until June 13 in order to summon the defendants and
allow their lawyers to prepare their defence, according to a
judicial source who asked not to be named.

