

Asking doctors to wash their hands may seem the least they could
do for their patients, but a WHO panel Wednesday listed it among
nine ways to bolster patient safety worldwide.


"The patient safety solutions we are releasing today may seem
obvious at first glance," said Dennis O'Leary, president of the
panel.


"But the admonition of Hippocrates to 'first, do no harm,' was
also obvious several centuries ago and we still have serious
patient safety problems," he said.


Elementary mistakes such as failing to use sterile needles, to
treat the right patient and to give the correct drugs are among
the greatest causes of patient injury at the hands of health
professionals, members of the panel said.


Fortunately, the solutions are elementary, too, said the panel,
which developed its nine solutions for use by the more than 100
World Health Organization member states.


While the nine solutions derive from the greatest need, some will
be better accepted in some places than others, such as the
frequent use of hand cleaners in Muslim countries.


"Nurses were being ostracized by their families for using
alcohol," said Karen Timmons, a panel member.


Poverty also plays a role, as developing countries often re-use
needles rather than throw them away.


Connecting catheters to the right medicines and to the right
parts of the body is another panel solution, as well as
positively identifying patients before invasive procedures, such
as surgery, or before handing a newborn to its parents.


Also, medical teams must identify the body part needing
treatment, especially with limbs or organs having duplicates,
perhaps with positive, indelible markings.


Pharmaceuticals with similar-sounding names are also cause for
concern, the panel said, as is the use of electrolyte solutions,
often to combat dehydration, but which can cause further problems
if concentration levels are not monitored.


Finally, medical personnel must communicate when handing patients
over to new teams, for example at shift change, or when making
transitions in care, as from hospital to out-patient treatment.

