

Democratic leaders said Wednesday a vote on a new Iraq war budget
in the House of Representatives could come within two weeks,
after President George W. Bush vetoed their troop withdrawal
timetable.


Democratic Majority leader Steny Hoyer said despite their
showdown with Bush for control of the war, the party would not
cut off the funding spigot for US troops in the war-torn nation.


"My hope is within the next two weeks," Hoyer told reporters when
asked how long new legislation would take to go through the
House. "We will not allow this to languish."


Such a schedule would allow the Senate to take up its own version
and send the new emergency bill to fund the wars in Iraq and
Afghanistan to Bush at the end of May, he said.


Hoyer hit back at Republican claims that Democrats had deprived
US troops of vital resources by seeking to tie war funding to a
timetable to start withdrawing most of the 146,000 combat troops
in Iraq by October 1.


"We are going to fund the troops, we are not going to leave our
troops in harm's way without the resources that they need."


Hoyer said Democrats were reviewing post-veto strategy, and did
not dispute the idea that congressional leaders would decline to
reinsert timetables for withdrawing troops in the new
legislation.


Party leaders are currently considering the idea of requiring the
Iraqi government to meet certain benchmarks for political
progress in the legislation, though Republicans have balked at
the notion that failure to meet such standards could result in
funding cuts.

