

Military authorities who run Washington's Walter Reed Army
Medical Hospital have spurned an offer from renowned folk singer
Joan Baez to perform for convalescing US troops, she said
Wednesday.


Baez, 66, was to have appeared last week alongside rock/folk
singer John Mellencamp at a concert for ailing soldiers, but US
officials declined to sign off on her participation, she wrote in
a letter published Wednesday in the Washington Post.


"Four days before the concert, I was not 'approved' by the Army
to take part," she wrote.


When originally invited by Mellencamp to share the stage with
him, Baez -- a world-famous balladeer best known for her
recordings of 1960s and 1970s anti- Vietnam war anthems like
"Blowin' in the Wind" -- said she accepted immediately.


Baez and Mellencamp said they were given no reason for the
decision by authorities to bar the singer from taking part in the
performance. The Pentagon did not immediately respond to a
request for comment from AFP.


Baez wrote that in the past she had declined invitations to
perform for US troops returning from Vietnam -- a decision she
now regrets.


"I have always been an advocate for non-violence and I have stood
as firmly against the Iraq War as I did the Vietnam War 40 years
ago," she wrote.


Nevertheless, she wrote, "I realize now that I might have
contributed to a better welcome home for those soldiers fresh
from Vietnam. Maybe that's why I didn't hesitate to accept the
invitation to sing for those returning from Iraq and
Afghanistan."


In light of that, the decision by military officials to reject
her offer to perform, she wrote to The Post, was a "strange
irony."

