

Russia's UN envoy on Wednesday again warned the Security Council
against imposing independence for the Serbian province of Kosovo
and urged more talks between Belgrade and Kosovo separatists.


"This is not the time for the Security Council to consider any
kind of imposition of decisions on Kosovo," Ambassador Vitaly
Churkin said after the 15-member body held consultations on a
recent mission by its members to Belgrade and Kosovo.


"The two sides have not accepted the proposals so we need to
continue negotiations, we need to encourage them to continue
negotiations," he said, pointing out that major requirements set
by the council for protection of Serb minority rights had yet to
be carried out.


The council is expected to rule in coming weeks on Kosovo's
future status, particularly on UN special envoy Martti
Ahtisaari's plan for supervised independence.


Russia has sided with Serbia, a traditional ally, in opposing
Ahtisaari's plan.


But the plan has the backing of the United States, the European
Union, and leaders of ethnic Albanians, who comprise around 90
percent of Kosovo's two million inhabitants.


"It is very difficult to argue that the international community
is anywhere near implementation of (UN Security Council
resolution) 1244," Churkin noted.


Security Council 1244, adopted in 1999, set UN-set democracy
standards in areas such as creating a multi-ethnic democracy,
respecting human rights, and ensuring the security of minority
Serbs.


Churkin, who was part of the Security Council mission that
visited Kosovo and Belgrade last month, spoke of a "palpable
atmosphere of fear and uncertainty in Kosovo."


"The fear is there and much work needs to be done to ensure
normal life in Kosovo," he added.


Kosovo, a southern province of Serbia, has been under UN
administration since mid-1999, following NATO bombardments that
forced the Serbian military to cease a crackdown on the ethnic
Albanian majority and to withdraw.

