

Morocco's supreme court on Wednesday authorised the extradition
of one of two men wanted by London for the largest cash robbery
in British history, a lawyer for the suspects said.


The court delayed the second man's hearing until May 30, Abdellah
Belmhidi Aissaoui said.


London has requested that Morocco extradite Lee Lamrani Ibrahim
Murray, who is accused of masterminding the theft of 53 million
pounds (77 million euros, 105 million dollars) from a Securitas
cash depot in southeast England in February last year, as well as
his suspected accomplice Paul Allen.


The court authorised Allen's extradition, though a date had not
been fixed. The extradition order must be signed by the prime
minister.


"There is still an appeal available, and I will see with my
client if he wants to do it," Aissaoui said.


Aissaoui said the prosecution had requested the delay for Murray
in order to review a document he had submitted from his client's
father proving that Murray, who holds a British passport, is also
Moroccan.


"The extradition of Moroccan Lee Murray is not possible if one
respects Moroccan law, because it blocks extraditing a Moroccan
citizen regardless of whatever he stands accused of," Aissaoui
said.


A martial arts cage fighter who is well known to fight fans in
Britain, Murray has told the court he wishes to stay in Morocco.


The two men, who are being held in preventive custody in Sale,
near Rabat, were arrested along with two other Britons and two
Moroccans in Rabat last June.


Murray and Allen were in February sentenced to eight months
behind bars, time already served, for crimes committed in the
northwest African country, including drug use and possession and
assaulting a police officer.


On Wednesday, a court in Sale hearing an appeal on that verdict
adjourned until June 13 in order to summon the defendants and
allow their lawyers to prepare their defence, according to a
judicial source who asked not to be named.

