

Will "Slip Slop Slap," a southern hemisphere campaign to prevent
skin cancer, have to be rethought?


The slogan, running especially in Australia and New Zealand,
urges the public to slip on a shirt, slop on sunscreen and slap
on a hat to protect themselves from ultraviolet (UV) rays that
age skin and cause skin cancer.


But, according to a review of the evidence published online
Thursday by the British health journal The Lancet, skin
protection is a rather more complex business than this.


Wearing thick garments -- and avoiding direct exposure to the sun
in the first place -- are smarter than wearing loose-weave
clothing and applying sunscreen, it says.


Sun-protection strategies around the world were assessed by Swiss
dermatologist Stephan Lautenschlager of Zurich's Triemli
Hospital.


His team found that tightly woven, thick clothing made of denim,
wool and polyester offers the best protection, while cotton,
linen and acetate are far less effective.


Clothes that have shrunk after washing -- and thus are denser --
are also better than materials which are wet or have been
stretched or bleached, according to Lautenschlager's team.


The review says that many people are confused or misinformed
about how to use sunscreen, such as how much to apply (a liberal
dose is recommended by far) and how frequently to reapply it.


There is not even a standardised method to measure the
effectiveness of UV blocking, it says.


This is important, given "our global, outdoor society," it says.


"The sunscreen market -- crowded by numerous products -- shows
various differences worldwide," it notes. "(...) Sunscreens
should not be abused in an attempt to increase time in the sun to
a maximum."

