

Cablevision, the US cable-television operator, said Wednesday it
had accepted a 22-billion-dollar takeover bid from its main
shareholder, the Dolan family, which plans to take the company
private.


The Dolan family, which founded Cablevision Systems Corp 35 years
ago, sweetened its takeover offer for the shares it does not own
to 36.26 dollars per share, valuing the company at 22 billion
dollars, the firm said in a statement.


The family, which currently owns 22.5 percent of the company's
shares and 70 percent of its voting rights, raised its offer by
34 percent from the 27 dollars per share initially proposed in
October.


In January the family had raised its bid to 30 dollars per share,
but the board of directors rejected it.


Under the terms of the agreed takeover deal, the family is
offering a 50 percent premium above the company's share price
just before its January 8 offer. Cablevision shares were then
trading at 23.93 dollars.


The board of Cablevision has recommended the Dolan family offer
to shareholders.


Cablevision, which offers television, telecommunications and
high-speed Internet access, serves 3.1 million households in New
York, where it also owns two major venues -- Madison Square
Garden and Radio City Music Hall -- as well as sports teams and a
movie theater chain.


It is the sixth-largest cable-television operator in the United
States.


The Dolan family said in a statement that it plans to delist the
company from the stock exchange to maintain "the company's track
record of delivering quality service and innovative products."


"We believe the best way to continue this tradition in today's
increasingly competitive environment is as a privately held
company," it said.


Charles Dolan is the company chairman and his son James its chief
executive.

