

Kenya must reopen its border with conflict-torn Somalia and let
in refugees in line with international humanitarian law, rights
watchdog Amnesty International said in a report on Wednesday.


Kenya, which closed its border in January, has turned away
thousands of refugees and forcibly returned hundreds, the report
said.


"Our major concern is about what is happening to those who can't
seek refuge and should be able to seek refuge in Kenya," Isabelle
Coche, campaigner for Amnesty's East Africa team which carried
out the research in March, told AFP.


The report said between 5,000 and 7,000 asylum seekers were
waiting on the Kenya-Somalia border in dire need of humanitarian
aid when it was closed.


About 400 people were sent back into Somalia on the day the
frontier was sealed, in contravention of international
humanitarian law, it added.


Kenya has justified the move, citing security concerns after
Ethiopian-Somali forces ousted Islamist fighters from southern
and central Somalia at the start of the year.


Around 2,000 people have crossed the border since then, according
to Amnesty, and many are now risking their lives to cross the
border illegally.


Somali troops backed by Ethiopian forces have been battling
heightened insurgency this year with fighting in Mogadishu
killing at least 1,400 people and forcing up to 400,000 to flee
the capital since early February.


"Many of those fleeing the most recent violence have not reached
the border yet but it is clear that they will do so," Coche said
over telephone.


The Kenyan government was assessing the situation, spokesman
Alfred Mutua told AFP.


"Right now we feel that it is only about internal displacement,"
he said.

