

The European Commission unveiled on Wednesday draft EU budget
plans for 2008 with spending to boost growth and help poor
regions for the first time bigger than the amount set aside for
farmers.


Under the plans, overall spending would increase 2.0 percent to
129.2 billion euros (175.7 billion dollars), which would be
equivalent to 1.03 percent of the European Union's output.


Policies related to economic competitiveness and regional support
would get the biggest share of overall spending, winning the top
spot from agriculture, rural development and the environment for
the first time.


The plans put spending on competitiveness and regional support at
44.2 percent of the total and expenditure on agriculture, rural
development and the environment at 43.6 percent.


"Today's budget proposal marks a historical shift for the EU,"
said EU Budget Comissioner Dalia Grysbaukaite. "For the first
time, spending directly related to growth and jobs take the
biggest share of the EU budget."


The EU's farmers have long been the biggest overall recipients of
European funding, which was a deeply contested issue during the
last negotiation in late 2005 of the bloc's long-term 2007-2013
budget.


France and Britain clashed bitterly during those negotiations
with Paris fiercely defending high levels of farm support while
London called for a shift in spending towards more future-
oriented policies like education and research.


As a condition for an overall agreement on the 2007-2013 long-
term budget, EU members ordered the Commission to carry out a
deep review of the bloc's spending midway through the period.


Grybauskaite said that the Commission would launch the review in
the middle fo the year by sending out questionnaires on preferred
spending priorities.

