

Italian Foreign Minister Massimo D'Alema on Wednesday questioned
the "modalities" of the US-led weekend offensive against the
Taliban that left 51 civilians dead in western Afghanistan.


"We cannot hide that the modalities (of the operation) are a
source of concern for Italy and for other countries deployed in
Afghanistan," D'Alema told a Senate hearing, according to the
ANSA news agency.


The US-led NATO force in Afghanistan, the International Security
Assistance Force (ISAF), includes 2,000 Italians, 800 of whom are
in Herat Province where the offensive took place.


The fighting left 136 Taliban dead according to the US army, but
another 51 civilians including women and children lost their
lives, according to Afghan authorities.


The Italian troops were precluded from taking part in the
offensive by the terms of their mission in Afghanistan.


"It's obvious that the stabilisation of Afghanistan requires the
defeat of the terrorists, but it is just as obvious that the
defeat of the terrorists requires the consensus of the civilian
population," D'Alema said.


He called for a strategy by which "success on the strictly
military level is accompanied by tangible success in the living
conditions of the population."


Afghan President Hamid Karzai said after summoning foreign
military chiefs on Wednesday that the civilian casualties were
unacceptable.


"We can no longer accept civilian casualties, the way they occur.
It's becoming heavy for us," Karzai told reporters after talks
with the heads of the NATO- and US-led forces and representatives
of the United Nations, US embassy and European Union.


Italy's deployment in Afghanistan is a sensitive issue for the
fragile centre- left coalition of Prime Minister Romano Prodi.


In February, far-left elements sparked a major political crisis
by voting against Prodi's foreign policy in the Senate, prompting
Prodi to resign before being reinstated and surviving confidence
votes in both houses of parliament.

