

Former Australia supremo Eddie Jones has emerged as the favourite
to be named as director of rugby at Northampton in the wake of
their relegation from the English Premiership.


Northampton announced on Wednesday that they were demoting Paul
Grayson from the role of head coach, which will be taken on by
New Zealander Peter Sloane.


Former England fly-half Grayson will now take on the job of backs
and skills coach with former Auckland boss Sloane being promoted
internally to fill his slot.


Defence coach Frank Ponissi and technical analyst Paul Larkin
have left the club in the wake of Northampton's last-place finish
in the 12-team top flight of English rugby.


Ex-Italy coach John Kirwan is also believed to be in the running
for the new director of rugby role, but Jones is regarded as the
front runner.


Club chairman Keith Barwell said: "In Peter Sloane, who we have
appointed head coach, we already have someone with great
experience, and we believe he will give us a harder edge and help
us to achieve our immediate objective of getting straight back to
the Premiership."


Jones, who has already sampled the Premiership in an advisory
role with Saracens, is currently coach of Super 14 strugglers
Queensland Reds.


Saints have meanwhile voiced confidence that they can retain the
overwhelming majority of their star-studded playing staff next
term, with the likes of Carlos Spencer, Bruce Reihana and Mark
Robinson all being urged to stay.


"The board feel it is important to keep the core of the side
together," Barwell said. "The players have been told we will
honour all existing contracts and we expect the same loyalty in
return.


"Their response has been outstanding and we are confident that
with our new signings strengthening the squad even further, our
new coaching team will get us off to a great start."

