

US Senate Democrats fired a new shot Wednesday in the row over
the firing of eight federal prosecutors, as a key committee
subpoenaed Attorney General Alberto Gonzales.


Senator Patrick Leahy, chairman of the powerful Senate Judiciary
Committee, compelled the top US law official to hand over any
e-mails regarding top White House aide Karl Rove's alleged role
in the affair.


Gonzales, who has fought a lonely rearguard action to hang on to
his job, has until May 15 to hand over any data in the Justice
Department's possession.


Prominent Democrats and even some of the president's Republican
allies have called for Gonzales to resign over the furor, but
President George W. Bush has expressed confidence in him.


The White House has said that some e-mails related to the storm,
over eight prosecutors Bush opponents said were fired for
political reasons, were mislaid.


"I continue to hope that the department will cooperate with the
committee's investigation, but it is troubling that significant
documents highly relevant to the committee's inquiry have not
been produced," Leahy wrote in a letter to Gonzales.


Gonzales has insisted he did nothing improper in firing the
prosecutors, despite the charges of political chicanery.


Most of the attorneys were fired in one fell swoop last December,
ostensibly for poor performance. Senators want to know more about
the possible role played in the firings by Rove, Bush's chief
political adviser.


Democrats also want to know if some White House officials,
beginning with Rove, destroyed e-mails to prevent them from
falling in the hands of Congress.

