

A car bomb exploded in the Baghdad Shiite slum of Sadr City
Wednesday, killing six people and wounding nine and bringing the
day's grim toll to 27, a security source said.


The parked car exploded between a police station and the Imam Ali
hospital and two policemen were among the dead, he added.


Car bombs targeting Iraq's majority Shiite population, the
hallmark of the radical Al-Qaeda movement, continue to detonate
almost daily in Baghdad despite a two-month old joint US-Iraqi
security operation to stem sectarian bloodshed.


"We've seen an uptick in the total number of car bomb attacks
which have in some cases created some very spectacular casualty
figures," admitted US military spokesman Rear Admiral Mark Fox.


Sectarian death squad attacks, generally perpetrated by Shiite
militias in revenge for the car bombs, have been on the decline,
he added.


Violence also continues to range in the agricultural region south
of the capital, where a bomb inside a minibus on the way to the
southern provincial center of Hilla killing 11 passengers, local
mayor Muayad Fadhil said.


Another three people were killed and 20 wounded when suspected
insurgents fired a salvo of mortar shells into a residential area
of Mahmudiyah, also just south of Baghdad.


Another mortar attack was launched against a primary school in
the neighbouring town of Iskandiriyah, killing a young girl and
injuring her teacher, said Lieutenant Kadhim Kashash of the town
police.


Further south, a policeman was shot dead by gunmen in the city of
Amara. Iraqi police and army soldiers have been frequent targets
in recent months as they have stepped up security patrols across
the country.

