

The Afghan government is doing everything it can to secure the
release of a French aid worker and three Afghans abducted by the
Taliban a month ago, President Hamid Karzai said Wednesday.


A French woman captured with the men early April was freed on
Saturday, when the militants said they would give a week for
their demands to be met. They want France to withdraw its troops
or Kabul to release certain prisoners.


"We are in close coordination with France, we are doing
everything in that regard," Karzai told reporters, adding: "I
can't talk about it."


The two French volunteers and the Afghans work for the non-
governmental organisation Terre d'Enfance (A World For Our
Children), which has a small children's programme in southwestern
Nimroz province, where they were abducted.


Taliban spokesman Yousuf Ahmadi told AFP Tuesday the four men
still being held were in good health.


"We are in indirect contact with the French government. The
French government has pressured the Afghan government to accept
our demands," he said.


"We have compiled a list of our prisoners and will hand it over
to the government," he said.


However, there had been no contact with the government over a
five-member Afghan medical team that was abducted in southern
Afghanistan days before the Terre d'Enfance group, he said.


"They are in good health," he added.


Karzai's government has come in for heavy criticism after it
released five Taliban prisoners, including high-ranking rebel
commanders, in exchange for an Italian journalist the rebels had
held for two weeks.


The Taliban beheaded the Italian's translator after the
government refused to free two more rebels from government jails.
The group's driver was also killed.

