

The two lead doctors from the elite T-Mobile cycling team are to
be investigated by the Freiburg justice department over
allegations they gave cyclists performance enhancing drugs
according to Thursday's edition of Suddeutsche Zeitung.


Wolfgang Meier, the Bavarian prosecutor general, said his
department was taking very seriously accusations made by a former
masseur of the team, Jef d'Hont.


D'Hont claimed the two doctors Andreas Schmid and Lothar Heinrich
supplied the team with EPO during the 1996 Tour de France which
was won by team member Bjarne Riis.


"The information available to us has encouraged us to pursue the
investigations," said Maier.


Maier's decision comes after a recognised expert in the battle
against doping, Werner Franke, brought a complaint against them
for 'breaking the law on medicines'.


Franke made his move after the allegations made by d'Hont, who
worked for T-Mobile's predecessor Telekom from 1992 to 1996.


D'Hont claimed that both Heinrich and Schmid organised masking
agents for EPO and injecting team members with EPO during the
1996 Tour de France, which aside from Riis' triumph also
announced the arrival of disgraced German star Jan Ullrich, who
worked selflessly for his Danish team-mate.


Heinrich and Schmid are still the heads of the medical department
of T-Mobile, who restructured their team following the scandal
which enveloped Ullrich, who has been linked to Spanish doctor
Eufemiano Fuentes.


D'Hont apparently faces little legal redress from the two doctors
according to Suddeutsche Zeitung, who quoted Hans-Hermann
Dickhuth, director of the sports medicine department at
Freiburg's university hospital where the two doctors are
resident.


"Doctor Schmid gave me the impression that these revelations
could be a problem," said Dickhuth.

