

Partial results in from Mali's weekend presidential election show
President Amadou Toumani Toure commanding a clear lead, but the
opposition vowed on Wednesday to get the results annulled.


With nearly half of the returns in, Toure, popularly known as
"ATT" by Malians, garnered 58.3 percent of the votes against his
closest rival Ibrahim Boubacar Keita with 25 percent of the
ballots.


Full results are still awaited later Wednesday or Thursday, but
Toure's camp have already claimed unassailed victory, ruling out
a second round.


But the opposition which has cited cases of "gross"
irregularities insist they will have the outcome nullified in the
court.


"I repeat that these results are of no interest to us, we
maintain our decision to seek the annulation of the results at
the constitutional court," Djiguiba Keita, spokesman for the main
opposition Front for Democarcy and the Republic (FDR), said
Wednesday.


"We will not let this electoral mascarade pass," he said.


Toure's strongest rival, IBK, backed by FDR, is the head of the
national assembly and a former prime minister.


The presidential camp has urged the opposition to accept defeat.


"I understand our friends in the FDR were knocked out by the
results. But it's the logical consequence of President ATT's
popularity in the country," said Toure's spokesman Hassan Barry.


Foreign observers have declared the election clean and fair,
despite some incidents.


A total of eight candidates had been vying for the top job in one
of Africa's most impoverished countries.


Toure, who ousted dictator Moussa Traore in 1991, installed a
multi-party system before stepping aside in 1992. He later stood
for presidential elections and won easily in 2002.

