

Prime Minister Shinzo Abe warned Tuesday that Japan may impose
additional sanctions against North Korea if it fails to meet its
promises to shut down its nuclear reactor.


Abe, now on a Middle East tour, said Japan and the United States
agreed to strengthen cooperation over North Korea when he met US
President George W. Bush at the Camp David presidential retreat
last Friday.


"President Bush and I have agreed that North Korea's unjust
stance is unforgivable and unacceptable," Abe told a news
conference in Cairo.


"Keeping in mind that North Korea has failed to take initial
steps, we may have to consider further action," the Japanese
prime minister said.


"North Korea must understand that if it fails to meet its
promise, its economic situation would not improve or would even
get worse," warned Abe, who has taken a tough line on Pyongyang
throughout his career.


Under a landmark February 13 disarmament-for-aid agreement, North
Korea pledged to shut down its Yongbyon nuclear reactor and allow
in UN inspectors by April 14.


But the deadline slipped, with North Korea refusing to act until
it receives 25 million dollars frozen at a Macau bank since 2005
over US allegations of money laundering and counterfeiting.


Japan has already imposed sweeping sanctions against North Korea
including a ban on all imports. Japanese advocates of stronger
action have suggested measures such as blacklisting ships that
travel to the communist state.


Japan has taken the hardest line at the six-nation nuclear talks
and has refused to fund February's US-backed deal, saying it will
not help North Korea until an emotionally charged kidnapping
dispute is resolved.


In September 2002, North Korean leader Kim Jong-Il admitted
Pyongyang kidnapped 13 Japanese in the 1970s and 1980s to train
spies in Japanese language and culture.


Pyongyang says eight of them are dead, but Tokyo believes more
Japanese nationals were kidnapped and are still alive in the
North.

