

Israeli Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni called on Prime Minister
Ehud Olmert to resign on Wednesday over a damning Lebanon war
report, upping the pressure on the beleaguered premier to step
down.


"I expressed my opinion that his resignation is the right thing
to do," Livni, a former close ally of the premier, told a press
conference after meeting Olmert.


She has become the most senior member of Olmert's Kadima party
and his ruling coalition to call on him to step down, further
increasing the enormous pressure on him to quit.


Livni said that she intended to stay in government and would
contest the leadership of the centrist Kadima party should Olmert
resign.


"I intend to stay in government in order to make sure that the
correcting process is carried out" in the wake of the interim
report from the government inquiry that blasted Olmert and top
brass for serious failure during last summer's 34-day war against
Lebanon's Hezbollah.


"Kadima has to elect its leadership and when the time comes I
will put myself forward as a candidate," said the 48-year-old
whom polls show is the most popular minister in the current
cabinet.


Livni was largely spared from criticism by the commission's
report, which roasted Olmert, Defence Minister Amir Peretz and
former army chief of staff Dan Halutz.


A senior Olmert aide blasted her comments, saying she should be
fired from the cabinet.


"There is no possibility following this for the foreign minister
to remain in her office," said Tal Zilberstein, a senior
political advisor to Olmert.


"She has expressed her lack of confidence (in the premier) and
she has to go," he said on Channel 10 television.

