

French aid agency Terre d'Enfance appealed to the group in
Afghanistan holding one of its French workers and three Afghan
colleagues to show mercy, in a statement issued Wednesday.


"On Saturday, you took the decision to give us back Celine. For
everyone, it is a great relief and satisfaction to know today
that she is with her loved ones," Terre d'Enfance (A World For
Our Children) wrote.


Celine Cordelier was freed by the Taliban in the southern
province of Kandahar on Saturday and returned to France on
Sunday.


She brought with her a message from her captors calling for the
withdrawal of France's troops in the NATO-led International
Security Assistance Force by next Saturday.


"Although tired after 24 days of detention, Celine was able to
make it clear that she had been treated with respect during her
captivity," the NGO's statement continued.


"This ordeal has not changed the friendship and esteem that she
feels for all of the Afghan people.


"In freeing Celine, you showed understanding towards these
volunteers, who are all committed to a humanitarian programme
that helps children. We are all grateful to you.


"Our sense of relief will not be complete until Eric Damfreville
and his three Afghans companions have in turn been reunited with
their families.


"The message that you gave to Celine had been passed on to all
French leadrs. It will be understood all the better if you decide
to be merciful."


The statement concluded: "We beg you to let Eric and his
companions live and to give them back their liberty."


Cordelier, who was said to be between 20 and 30 years old, was
captured on April 3 in the southwestern province of Nimroz with
another French volunteer, Damfreville, and the three Afghans.


They were all working for the non-governmental organisation.


Cordelier, as well as reading the statement given to her by the
Tabliban, made a personal appeal to her former captors for the
release of her four colleagues.

