

The Wall Street Journal picked up two top Pulitzer prizes Monday
for its coverage of fast-paced economic development in China and
a share-dealing scandal that led to changes in corporate America.


The Journal was awarded the public service prize for its
"creative and comprehensive probe" into back-dated stock options
for US business executives.


The newspaper's coverage "triggered investigations, the ouster of
top officials and widespread change in corporate America," the
Pulitzer Prize committee said in a statement.


The paper also walked away with the international reporting award
for its "sharply edged reports on the adverse impact of China's
booming capitalism on conditions ranging from inequality to
pollution," the committee said.


The annual US awards for print journalism were unveiled at
Columbia University in New York. The Prizes are each worth 10,000
dollars, except the public service award, which is a gold medal.


The New York Times won the editorial writing prize for its
opinion pieces on behalf of workers who toiled through the
wreckage of the World Trade Center after the September 11 attacks
of 2001.


The breaking news photography prize went to Oded Balilty of The
Associated Press for a powerful photograph of a lone Jewish woman
defying Israeli security forces as they removed illegal settlers
in the West Bank.


The committee also credited an Iranian journalist with a prize-
winning photograph of a firing squad taken a quarter century ago
and initially published anonymously.


Jahangir Razmi's iconic picture of the execution of a group of 11
prisoners won the 1980 Pulitzer Prize for Spot News Photography
but Razmi was only identified as the man behind the image last
year.


The Pulitzer prize for fiction meanwhile went to Cormac McCarthy
for the novel "The Road," an account of a father and son's
journey through a post-Apocalyptic America.

