

Buying a handgun or rifle is relatively easy in Virginia, where a
gunman slaughtered at least 30 people at a university Monday, but
the state's gun control laws are not the most lenient in the
United States.


Virginia laws allow any state resident over 18 to buy a firearm,
including assault weapons, if they pass a check of any possible
criminal background against state and federal databases.


According to the Brady Campaign lobby for gun control, the state
merits a C-minus on a scale of A to F for the strength of its gun
control laws, with 32 of the 50 states ranked D or F.


Buying and owning a gun in Virginia does not require a permit,
but without a gun permit only one handgun purchase per month is
allowed, and there is no waiting period to acquire the gun.


Those with licenses can buy more than one gun during one month. A
non-state resident has to wait 10 days to acquire a weapon, or
until he or she gets a positive report from the state police.


The law is broad enough to allow people to buy assault guns and
magazines without limit such as AK-47s and Uzis, the Brady report
points out on its website.


"Assault weapons are as easy to buy as hunting rifles," it says.


The state maintains "no restriction on the sale or possession of
rapid-fire ammunition magazines that can fire up to 100 bullets
without reloading."


The state does restrict people convicted of felony crimes from
possessing firearms, and forbids giving or selling handguns to
minors under 18, except from one family member to another.


But selling rifles and shotguns to children over 12 is permitted.


In one controversial loophole, people can buy weapons at second
hand gun shows without waiting periods or background checks.
Critics of the laws say it allows people to pay cash and take the
gun away with no way to track them.

