

Ugandan police on Monday arrested two MPs and 25 other people in
connection with last week's street demonstration against plans to
clear a reserved forest to grow commercial sugarcane, lawyers
said.


Police arrested lawmakers Beatrice Atim and Hussein Kyanjo in
Kampala as they launched investigations into last Thursday's
violent protests in which a man of Asian origin was stoned to
death and private guards killed two suspected looters.


"My clients have been detained in connection with Thursday's
demonstration opposing the giving away of Mabira Forest," Elian
Lukwago told AFP.


"They went to be questioned, but have instead been detained in
police cells. No specific charges has been mentioned," he added.


"Twenty five other people, mainly from the opposition Democratic
Party, are also in police cells."


The demonstration rekindled memories in 1972 when former dictator
Idi Amin, expelled around 50,000 Asian merchants from Uganda and
confiscated their properties. Some have since returned and
dominated businesses here.


The demonstrators were rallying against the plan to clear around
7,000 of the 30,000 hectares (75,000 acres) in Mabira Forest
Reserve east of Kampala.


The government plans to seek parliamentary approval before
handing over the forest land to Indian-owned Mehta Group for
sugar cane farming, a move that has angered conservationists and
opposition lawmakers.


They have warned that further encroachment of the forest would
threaten up to 312 species of trees, 287 species of bird and 199
of butterflies.

