

Two senior officials from Zimbabwe's main opposition group will
meet top Danish ministers to discuss the political and economic
crises plaguing the southern African nation, a statement said
Monday.


Welshman Ncube and Tendai Biti, members of Zimbabwe's Movement
for Democratic Change which has posed the strongest challenge to
President Robert Mugabe's iron-fisted rule, will Tuesday meet
with Foreign Minister Per Stig Moeller and Minister for
Development Aid Ulla Toernaes, it said.


"The present situation is very worrying," the Danish foreign
ministry statement said, recalling that peaceful protests
organised by the party in March "ended with arrests and the
brutal treatment of opposition leaders."


Zimbabwe's once model economy has been on a downward spiral for
the last seven years, characterised by runaway inflation -- the
highest in the world -- and perennial shortages of basic
commodities.


Exacerbating the situation is the state's increasing crackdown on
all opposition to the rule of the country's founder President
Robert Mugabe, in power since the country's independence from
Britain in 1980.


Western countries have imposed sanctions on Mugabe and his
coterie and have accused him of stifling democracy and human
rights in his now impoverished country.


Denmark, which has been trenchantly critical of Mugabe's rule
will "continue to back democratic forces in Zimbabwe working to
ensure fundamental human rights, press freedom and democratic
development," the foreign ministry said.

