

The dollar softened Monday while the yen moved broadly lower
after the weekend statement from the Group of Seven avoided any
reference to the Japanese currency and the so-called carry trade.


At 2100 GMT, the euro stood at 1.3535 dollars, compared with
1.3532 dollars late on Friday in New York, and had earlier hit
its highest level against the US currency since January 2005 at
1.3577.


The dollar rose to 119.72 yen, from 119.22 yen on Friday, its
highest level since February 27.


The euro continued to power ahead, setting new records against
the yen and the Swiss franc in earlier trading.


It climbed earlier in the day to a record 162.43 yen in Asian
trade and 1.6471 Swiss francs later in the day.


The market action came after the G7 finance ministers declined to
comment on the weak yen and the so-called carry trade that has
been keeping the currency low, in which traders borrow at ultra-
low Japanese interest rates to invest in higher-yielding
currencies.


"Another year, another G7 ministers meeting has come and gone.
What has improved? Nothing," said Richard Lee at Forex Capital
Markets.


"The same language in the statement seems to be aimed at China's
attempt at a more flexible currency regime, as European officials
still clamor for appreciation in the Japanese yen."


Lee added that "the lack of any real mention of the yen will
likely keep the yen selling pressure on, reinforcing the carry
attractiveness of selling the currency."


Sterling meanwhile climbed to 1.9940 dollars -- the highest level
since September 1992, as analysts eyed a breakthrough of the two-
dollar level.


Data released on Monday by the US Commerce Department showed US
retail sales hitting a three-month high in March, rising by 0.7
percent, higher than the 0.4 percent gain economists had been
expecting.


However, momentum for the dollar was limited by the Empire survey
on manufacturing activity in the New York region.


The survey showed only a small rise after a massive slump the
previous month with the headline index up to 3.80 points in April
after dropping 22 points to 1.85 in March. Markets had been
predicting a much bigger increase to around 8.1.


"Concerns about what may be happening in the manufacturing sector
will remain in place, but at the current time the consumer seems
to be holding in well," said Ian Gunner, head of research at
Mellon FX.


"The strength of the sales data should offer some element of
support for the dollar, although further data strength will be
needed this week to prompt a more significant change in
sentiment," he added.


In late New York trade, the dollar stood at 1.2141 Swiss francs
after 1.2144 Friday.


The pound was being traded at 1.9900 dollars from 1.9866.

