

An unfinished story by John Ronald Reuel Tolkien, author of "The
Lord of the Rings", that was completed by his son went on sale on
Tuesday, its British publishers HarperCollins said.


J.R.R Tolkien began "The Children of Hurin" in 1918 but never
finished it. His third son, Christopher, has spent nearly 30
years piecing together drafts to turn them a single story,
written entirely in his father's words.


"After a long study of the manuscripts, I tried to build a
coherent narrative without editorial invention," Christopher
Tolkien told the Internet site dedicated to his father's work.


"The Children of Hurin" is set in Tolkien's imaginary world of
Middle-Earth but takes place long before the events in "The Lord
of the Rings" trilogy.


The hobbits have not yet appeared, although the story involves
elves, dwarves and an evil spirit who takes the form of a dragon
without wings.


Tolkien's fans will recognise several passages from the book
which have already been published separately. According to
Christopher Tolkien, the novel represents the author's last major
writings on Middle-Earth.


The front cover and the sketches inside the 320-page book were
drawn by Alan Lee, the illustrator of the "Lord of the Rings" and
"The Hobbit".


Christopher Tolkien previously edited another of his father's
unfinished works, "The Silmarillion", in 1977. This outlines the
mythology of Middle-Earth and includes individual tales including
that of "The Children of Hurin".


From Tuesday, the book is available in English across the world
and HarperCollins said it would eventually be translated into 25
languages.

