

European equity markets sparkled on Monday, with London's FTSE
100 shares index hitting a six year high as investors spied a
potential bidding war for Dutch bank ABN Amro.


The FTSE 100 index closed 0.83 percent higher at 6,516.20 points,
its highest level since September 14, 2000. In Paris, the CAC 40
rose 1.25 percent to 5,861.97 points. In Frankfurt, the Dax rose
1.75 percent to 7,338.06 points.


The DJ Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone blue chip shares gained
1.43 percent to 4,379.25 points.


The euro stood at 1.3549 dollars.


US stocks also streaked higher Monday morning as sentiment was
boosted by a 25 -billion-dollar takeover deal, generally strong
earnings from Citigroup and a better-than-expected report on
retail sales.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average surged 0.71 percent to 12,701.20
at 1454 GMT while the tech-rich Nasdaq composite increased 0.84
percent to 2,512.93.


The Standard and Poor's 500 index gained a hefty 0.84 percent to
1,465.05.


Wall Street was helped by gains on Asian and European markets
overnight as well as news of a prospective 25-billion-dollar
private equity takeover deal for US student loan finance giant
Sallie Mae.


Japanese share prices closed with gains on expectations that
exporters would benefit from the weakness of the yen after world
finance chiefs had skirted the issue over the weekend, dealers
said.


In Europe, investors tracked news on ABN Amro, which is in
exclusive talks with Britain's Barclays Bank about a takeover
deal.


ABN Amro had revealed last Friday that Bank of Scotland (RBS),
Dutch group Fortis and Banco Santander of Spain, had also
approached it about a possible acquisition -- sparking
speculation over a potential bidding war.


"We expect a bidding process (for ABN Amro) as more banks are
likely to express their interest," analysts at Keefe Bruyette and
Woods said.


The broker added that other interested parties could include
Dutch banking and insurance group ING, Bank of America and Bank
of Montreal.


In Amsterdam, ABN shares showed a gain of 5.68 percent to 35.55
euros at the close on Monday.


In London, Barclays shares raced 1.68 percent higher to 756
pence, while RBS shares surged 2.37 percent to 2,071 pence. RBS,
the second biggest British bank was boosted also after selling 47
Marriott hotels to an Irish-led investment consortium for 1.1
billion pounds (1.6 billion euros, 2.2 billion dollars).


In Asian deals, Tokyo's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares rose
1.52 percent to 17,628.30 points.


Hong Kong's key Hang Seng Index closed up 2.05 percent at
20,757.53 points, led by China Mobile and other blue chips on
strong liquidity inflows after another record high on China's
A-share bourses, dealers said.


China's Shanghai A-share Index was up 2.22 percent at 3,780.61
points on strong fund inflows, owing partly to a rise of the yuan
and interest in banks and power generators.


Elsewhere in Europe, the Spanish Ibex-35 index set a new record,
closing 0.37 percent higher at 15,020.80 points, and the Belgian
Bel 20 index also closed at its highest ever level. The Bel 20
gained 0.73 percent to 4,614.86 points.


In Milan, the SP/Mib index rose 0.99 percent to 43,440 points,
while in Amsterdam the AEX index added 1.61 percent to 532.09
points.


The Swiss SMI index increased 1.01 percent to 9,269.9 points.

