

France and Spain agreed on Monday to step up their cooperation in
their fight against the armed Basque seperatist group ETA, which
in December staged its first deadly attack since 2003.


"We are at a point where it there is a need to pool the
information which we have," French Interior Minister Francois
Baroin told reporters after holding talks in Madrid with his
Spanish counterpart Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba.


The two ministers agreed to continue to work to reduce ETA's
operational capacity and prevent the group from rebuilding its
logistics potential, Spain's interior ministry said in a
statement after the meeting.


Last week European police agency Europol warned that ETA, whose
38-year-old campaign for an independent Basque state in northern
Spain and southwestern France has claimed over 800 lives, has
rebuilt its capacity to strike.


The Spanish government halted its peace process with the armed
group after it claimed responsibility for a car bombing at
Madrid's airport that killed two Ecuadorian men.


Spanish police arrested nine suspected ETA members and seized
some 170 kilograms (375 pounds) of explosives material in
northern Spain in late March. They said they had dismantled an
ETA cell known as "Donosti" that carried out 24 attacks between
2004 and 2006.


Last week Spanish newspaper ABC cited anti-terrorist sources as
saying that ETA has two cells ready to launch attacks in Spain if
its banned political wing Batasuna was prevented from entering
local elections in May.


More than 40 ETA members are currently under surveillance in
Spain and France, Spanish daily El Mundo reported earlier on
Monday.

