

South Africa captain Graeme Smith on Monday played down reports
of a heavy drinking session by some of his players on the night
following their World Cup defeat against New Zealand.


"I have no issues with some guys going out for a drink and
blowing off steam. It's a long tournament," said Smith on the eve
of his team's crucial World Cup Super Eights game against
England.


"We do have drinking rules. If the guys don't go over it and push
the limits, that's fine with me."


Cricket South Africa chief executive Gerald Majola said in
Johannesburg he would be leaving for the Caribbean on a fact-
finding mission over the players' behaviour.


He has also sought a report from the team management about media
reports saying South African fans had seen several team members
"extremely drunk" in public.


The supporters reportedly called a South African radio station
and said  they encountered several players at a bar on Saturday
night after the team's five- wicket defeat against New Zealand in
Grenada.


"I will be leaving for the Caribbean and have asked team
management to prepare a full report on the allegations to be
ready on my arrival," Majola was quoted as saying Monday by the
South African Press Association.


"I have been in contact with the team and they have assured me
nothing  untoward has happened. I will therefore wait for the
report before I make a decision on further steps to be taken."


The South African skipper said he was sure the players were aware
of the limits.


"We do have drinking rules which require the players to calm down
two days before the game. We will deal with it if the guys go
over the limit, said Smith.


"There are probably were a few guys who had a drink, but I don't
know what being intoxicated is. We've been the quietest team in
the World Cup, probably due to where we've been based."

