

A gunman pumped bullets into a dormitory and classrooms at a US
university Monday, killing 31 people and injuring dozens in the
bloodiest school shooting in US history, authorities said.


The gunman was also killed, bringing the death toll at Virginia
Tech University to a staggering 32, they added.


"At this particular time, we have been told that there were 31
dead and then additionally, you had the shooter himself who, of
course, is dead at this point in time. So that's a total of 32,"
Virginia Congressman Randy Forbes told CNN.


The university, some 425 kilometers (264 miles) southwest of
Washington, only confirmed 22 dead on its website.


Police said the gunman killed at least one person at a dormitory
around 7:15 am (1115 GMT) and killed many more at a fusillade in
a building housing engineering classrooms some two hours later.


Student Michael O'Brien told Fox News he was walking across the
school's drill field when he heard a gunshot and saw students
scrambling out of the building.


"You could see students carrying what looked like bodies out of
Norris Hall (the engineering building) and there were ambulances
out there that drove down to pick them up and sped off towards
the hospital."


The White House, which earlier said US President George W. Bush
was "horrified" by the carnage, announced he would make at
statement at 4:05 pm (2005 GMT).


The carnage surpasses the 15 who died in the April 1999 shooting
at Columbine High School in Colorado that shocked the nation and
world.


Monday's shooting rampage is overshadowed only by a 1927 bombing
at a Michigan school that killed 38 children and seven teachers.


Virginian Tech Police Chief Wendell Flinchum gave only sketchy
details of the rampage at the 135-year-old university, noting
only that victims were found in "multiple locations" in the
classroom building.


Local television quoted witnesses as saying the gunman was a
young Asian man, but little else was known about the shooter,
including whether or not he was a student.


Virginia Tech canceled classes and locked down the sprawling
engineering and research university which has some 28,000
students and more than 100 buildings spread across 2,600 acres
(1,040 hectares). The university hosts students from 35 countries
and foreign students make up seven percent of the student body.


The chaos was captured in dramatic cell phone video footage
better suited to a war zone than a university with a hail of
bullets echoing in the background.


Television showed heavily armed police rushing across the grounds
while witnesses reported scenes of terror and panic with school
officials urging people to stay indoors.


"The police officers were trying to, you know, settle everyone
down and keep everything under control," Amy Steele, chief editor
of the student newspaper, told CNN. "One of the injuries happened
from a student jumping out of a window."


The incident renewed concern over school security and access to
guns that was rekindled last year by a rash of shootings.
Virginia Tech itself was no stranger to violence.


In August, an escaped prisoner tried to hide on the campus, US
media reported. A security guard and a policeman were killed
before the man was re-arrested.


Virginia Tech's website also announced that a reward of 5,000
dollars had been posted on Sunday for information leading to the
arrest of those behind two bomb hoaxes at the campus on April 2
and 13.

