

Madonna on Monday visted a Malawian village without running water
nor electricity, hours after she landed for a three-day private
visit with the baby boy that she plans to adopt.


Welcomed to Mtenje village, around 60 kilometres (38 miles) from
the capital Lilongwe, by Jeffrey Sachs, head of the United
Nations Millenium Development Project, Madonna was shown a maize
field and a fish pond project run by the villagers and funded by
the UN to help pull themselves out of poverty.


After being greeted by traditional songs of welcome and praise,
the singer, wearing camouflage long trousers and a hat, ventured
deep into a maize field belonging to one villager.


"Madonna looked jovial and asked a lot of questions to Sachs
about the project," villager Mailosi Katundu, told AFP at the
village.


She was also shown a fish pond, which is meant to enrich the
protein intake of the villagers who eke out subsistence life and
form part of the 60 percent of the 12 million citizens living
below the poverty line in Malawi.


Spending about half an hour at the village, Madonna did not speak
to reporters nor the villagers. She later sped off in a convoy of
vehicles to her exclusive lodge on the outskirts of the capital.


While in the impoverished southern African nation, the "Material
Girl" is expected to visit the Home of Hope, an orphanage in
Mchinji, 110 kilometers from Lilongwe where she plucked little
David Banda, then 13 months old, touching off a heated debate
over the adoption.


David and his father Yohane Banda were also expected to re-unite
at a secret venue during Madonna's visit.


If they meet, it will be the second time that Yohane will be
meeting Madonna after briefly meeting in court last during the
processing of adoption documents. The adoption has still to be
finalised but the London-based singer was awarded temporary
custody in October.

