

Kenya's Robert Cheruiyot and Russia's Lidia Grigoryeva overcame
gusting winds, heavy rain and bitter cold as well as world-class
rivals to win titles here on Monday at the 111th Boston Marathon.


Horrid conditions that had organizers warning competitors about
the dangers of hypothermia produced the slowest men's victory in
30 years and the slowest women's winner since 1985.


Cheruiyot won for the second year in a row and third time overall
in an official time of 2 hrs, 14 mins and 13 secs to lead an all-
Kenyan podium but was well shy of the race record he set last
year of 2:07:14.


James Kwambai was second, 20 seconds behind, with 2006 New York
Marathon runner- up Stephen Kiagoro third in 2:14:47.


"The race was too slow. We were very cautious not to go too
fast," Cheruiyot said.


Grigoryeva won in an official time of 2:29:18. Latvia's Jelena
Prokopcuka was second for the second year in a row, losing by 40
seconds, with Mexico's Madai Perez third, exactly one minute
behind the winner.


Kenya's Rita Jeptoo, the 2006 Boston winner, was fourth in
2:33:08 with 2006 London Marathon winner Deena Kastor, hoping to
be the first US man or woman to win at Boston since 1985, taking
fifth in 2:35:09.


Each winner received 100,000 dollars from a total prize money
pool of 575,000 dollars.


Cheruiyot, who also won here in 2003, became the 15th Kenyan man
to win in the past 17 editions of the epic 26-mile classic.


Cheruiyot and Kwambai battled for several miles together late in
the race but at a final water stop, Cheruiyot surged ahead as
Kwambai reached for water and was never caught again.


"I was very confident," Cheruiyot said. "I was very strong. I had
trained enough. I didn't fear anybody."


Kenyan-born unknowns Josephat Ongeri and Jared Nyamboki jumped to
a huge lead at the start and kept the edge deep into the race as
Cheruiyot and other favourites stayed back until the midpoint
when they began to pick up the pace.


Nyamboki surged ahead alone but the pursuing pack overtook him 10
miles from the finish. Mile after mile, the pack peeled down
until Cheruiyot and Kwambai were left in the final miles.


It was the third major women's marathon title in as many years
for Grigoryeva, but easily the most important for the Russian
after taking the 2006 Los Angeles Marathon and the 2005 Paris
Marathon.


Grigoryeva, 33, surged ahead with two miles remaining when Perez,
27, began to fade and two-time New York Marathon winner
Prokopcuka, 30, could not quicken the pace to avoid another
Boston runner-up finish.


Grigoryeva ran a 5:10 penultimate mile, her best of the race, to
become the first Russian to win the Boston title since 1993.


Prokopcuka, who last year lost to Jeptoo by 10 seconds in the
tightest women's finish in Boston history, took command at the
halfway mark with a lead pack that included Jeptoo, Perez and
Grigoryeva. Jeptoo fell back with eight miles remaining.


Kastor, 34, won last year's London Marathon and the 2005 Chicago
Marathon and took third at the 2004 Athens Olympic marathon but
struggled in her Boston debut.


Japanese athletes won the wheelchair events with Masazumi Soejima
taking the men's race and Wakako Tsuchida claiming the women's
crown.

