

Sri Lanka were 174-5 after 40 overs in their World Cup Super
Eights match against Australia at the Grenada National Stadium
here Monday.


Tillakaratne Dilshan was on four with Russel Arnold on nought.


Sanath Jayasuriya and Upal Tharanga got Sri Lanka off to a flier
with a partnership of 26 off 4.3 overs before Jayasuriya was lbw
to Nathan Bracken for 12.


Kumar Sangakkara was dismissed lbw by Glenn McGrath six balls
later without scoring before Tharanga became the third man out
caught by Matthew Hayden in the slips for six off Bracken with
the total on 27 in the seventh over.


Chamara Silva and skipper Mahela Jayawardene then put on 140 for
the fourth wicket to take back the intitiative before spinner
Brad Hogg worked his magic to put Australia in charge.


First, he had Silva caught by Michael Clarke for 64 in the 38th
over with the total on 167 and then had Jayawardene stumped by
Adam Gilchrist for 72 in the 40th over with the score on 174.


Both sides have already qualified for the semi-finals.


Defending two-time champions Australia, on a 25-game unbeaten run
at the World Cup since losing to Pakistan during the 1999
tournament in England, made one change to the side that beat
Ireland by nine wickets in Barbados on Friday with the previously
rested Nathan Bracken returning in place of Stuart Clark.


But while Australia were fielding their first-choice side, Sri
Lanka were under strength.


The 1996 champions, were without injured fast bowler Lasith
Malinga for the second successive match.


However, they also made two changes to the team that beat New
Zealand by six wickets here Thursday, with left-arm quick
Chaminda Vaas and off-spinner Muttiah Muralitharan, two of their
leading wicket-takers and stars of the 1996 World Cup-winning
team, omitted.


Their places were taken by leg-spinner Malinga Bandara and pace
bowler Nuwan Kulasekara.

