

Jury selection in the murder trial of famed music producer Phil
Spector resumed here Monday, with potential jurors being warned
to disregard media coverage of the high-profile case.


Spector, 67, who is accused of gunning down actress Lana Clarkson
at his castle- like home in Los Angeles four years ago, appeared
at Los Angeles Superior Court for Monday's hearing.


Around 200 potential jurors are to be questioned over the next
week, with opening prosecution and defense statements in the
trial expected to take place around April 30.


Judge Larry Paul Fidler again advised jurors to ignore media
coverage of the trial, which is to be televised and is the most
high-profile case to be held in Los Angeles since the OJ Simpson
murder trial in 1995.


Lawyers were expected to begin questioning jurors later Monday.


Prosecutors say Spector, famed for his work with The Beatles,
Tina Turner, The Righteous Brothers, The Ronettes and the
Ramones, killed Clarkson hours after meeting her for the first
time at the Hollywood night club where she worked as a hostess on
February 3, 2003.


Spector is regarded as one of the most influential figures in pop
music history. In the early 1960s he was produced hits including
"Da Doo Ron Ron," "Then He Kissed Me," "Be My Baby, Baby" and
"You've Lost That Lovin' Feelin."


Spector, who denies murder, is alleged to have told police
officers who arrived at his imposing mock chateau immediately
after the shooting: "I didn't mean to shoot her."


Spector, who a few weeks before the shooting described himself as
"relatively insane" and tortured by "devils inside me," told
Esquire magazine in 2003 that Clarkson shot herself. "She kissed
the gun," said Spector.


Clarkson starred in movies such as 1987's "Amazon Women on the
Moon" and 1991's "The Haunting of Morella" but her career had
stalled at the time of her death.

