

The Archbishop of Canterbury will meet with Anglicans in the
United States to try to sew divisions over homosexuality, he said
Monday in Toronto ahead of a vote by Canadian bishops on gay
marriage and queer priests.


"I intend to visit the United States ... sometime in autumn,"
Archbishop Rowan Williams told reporters.


Anglican leaders had given US Episcopal Church, the American
branch of the Anglican communion, until September 30 to respond
to demands that it cease appointing gay clergy and stop blessing
same-sex unions.


US church leaders rejected the appeal and asked for face-to-face
talks with Williams to avoid a schism in the 77-million-strong
global Anglican community.


"I think the communion in recent years has had to face the fact
that the division on certain subjects, especially sexuality, has
been getting much more deep and bitter and threatening to divide
us," Williams said.


"My aim is to try and keep people around the table as long as
possible on this to understand one another."


The crisis within Anglican community was triggered in 2003 when
the US church approved the appointment of an openly gay bishop,
angering more conservative branches of the Church, particularly
in Africa.


The Anglican Church in Canada does not perform gay weddings, but
could face similar criticisms and possible expulsion if a
resolution to allow individual dioceses to choose whether to
bless gay unions passes at its June synod.


"If there is to be any change on the church's attitude on gay and
lesbian behavior, then I would hope it would be a change of
attitude on the part of the church as a whole and moving together
in step," Williams commented.


The archbishop is expected to hold talks with Canadian bishops
over the next three days at a retreat near Niagara Falls.

