

A Guinean fighter plane crashed Monday into the state
broadcasting station in the capital of the west African country,
but no lives were lost in the accident.


"A MiG came down around 11:30 am (GMT) on an RTG (Guinea Radio
and Television) building," Communication Minister Justin Morel
Junior told AFP.


"The two pilots escaped and are alive," he said, adding there
were "some slight injuries in the panic that followed the
collision (involving) broken glass."


No casualties were reported on the ground either.


"We have neither deaths nor casualties. We have been very lucky
because only the roof of a wing of the building was hit,"
television director Yamoussa Sidibe told AFP.


The crash, which occurred a stone's throw away from the American
embassy, took place during regular military drills, the
communications' minister said. The cause of the accident was not
immediately known.


Witnesses said the MiG-21 burst into flames when it came down on
part of the building which houses the country's RTG state radio
and television station in the suburb of Ratoma.


"From my offce I saw the aircraft on fire. It headed towards our
building, (then) a deafening sound ... and everybody was crying,
it was frightening," Hassanatou Barry, a journalist told AFP.


"It's crazy what I saw. It was like a science fiction movie, that
plane in flames, approaching us while losing altitude," said
Mahmoudou Barry another journalist.


Fire fighters put out the flames, but hours after the accident
the wreck of the plane had yet to be pulled down from the
building, according to an AFP correspondent at the scene.


The Guinea airforce which regularly undertakes training exercises
around the capital, has had four accidents involving MiG-21
fighters in recent years, the latest in 2004.


Junior said the Chinese ambassador to Conakry had promised to
help with the repairs of the Russian-made aircraft.

