

A Rwandan man on trial in Canada for crimes against humanity for
his alleged role in the 1994 genocide of ethnic Tutsis in Rwanda
will be held in isolation for his own safety, authorities said
Monday.


Warden Yves Ste-Marie told the court the "extraordinary" measure
was taken after Desire Munyaneza was beaten in his Montreal jail
cell by another inmate and briefly hospitalized last week.


Munyaneza appeared in court the following day in a wheelchair
with eyes swollen, and cuts on his face, and according to his
statements to nurses Monday is "incapable of concentrating" on
the trial due to problems with his eyesight.


The proceedings were postponed until Wednesday while he recovers.


Munyaneza is accused of involvement in the rape and killing of
civilians in Butare in southern Rwanda, from April to July 1994.
He pleaded not guilty.


Some 800,000 people, most of them Tutsis, were killed within six
weeks in Rwanda by members of the Hutu ethnic group.


The genocide followed years of tension between the two groups and
was sparked by the death of president Juvenal Habyarimana, a
Hutu, in a plane crash.


Munyaneza lived with his wife and two children in Toronto while
Canadian authorities carried out an investigation which led to
his arrest and detention in 2005.


The son of a beer and soft drink distributor in Butare, Munyaneza
is the first person to stand trial in Canada under a law passed
in 2000 for crimes against humanity.


Several Rwandan witnesses have testified at his trial in Quebec's
high court.


Romeo Dallaire, the retired Canadian general who at the time
headed a UN peacekeeping force in Rwanda, as well as Canadian
police experts who have investigated the case, were also expected
to testify in the case.

