

US retailer Wal-Mart Stores has dethroned oil giant ExxonMobil
from the top position in the Fortune 500 list of America's
biggest companies, the magazine announced Monday.


The magazine said Wal-Mart saw an 11.2 percent increase in its
2006 revenues to 351.1 billion dollars, eclipsing the 347.3
billion raked in by ExxonMobil.


Wal-Mart has been the top company on the list for five of the
past six years.


However, ExxonMobil's profit was more than triple that of the
retailer at 39.5 billion dollars compared to 11.3 billion.


The Fortune ranking is based on revenues. Other rankings of the
largest companies may be based on profits or stock market
capitalization. Fortune also publishes a list of the top global
companies.


Despite its struggles and a loss of some two billion dollars,
General Motors held onto the number three spot with annual
revenues of 207.3 billion dollars.


Fourth on the list was oil giant Chevron (200.6 billion dollars),
followed by ConocoPhillips (172.5 billion), General Electric
(168.3 billion), Ford Motor Co. (160.1 billion), Citigroup (146.8
billion), Bank of America (117 billion) and American
International Group (113.2 billion).


The Fortune 500 companies collectively generated profits of 785
billion dollars, a 29 percent increase over 2005.


"Put simply, American companies are enjoying the most sumptuously
profitable period in the 500's 53-year history," the magazine
said. "These happy numbers are largely due to a sort of
harmonious convergence, a perfect economic calm."


"Virtually every conceivable force, from mild labor costs to a
falling dollar to soaring productivity, has favored big
companies," Fortune added


Revenues for the 500 firms increased 8.9 percent last year to 9.9
trillion dollars.


The Fortune 500 lists includes 31 non-public companies and 16
mutual insurers. Twelve have a female chief executive and seven
have an African-American CEO.


The most profitable companies in 2006 were ExxonMobil, United
Airlines parent UAL, Citigroup, Bank of America, and General
Electric.


The largest companies by market value were ExxonMobil, General
Electric, Microsoft, Citigroup, and AT&T.


New York City had more than twice as many Fortune 500 companies
than second- place Houston, with 45 and 22 headquarters,
respectively.


The magazine also noted the dramatic effect of soaring
productivity, saying it took a 3.6 percent increase in the
collective workforce of the companies from 2000 to 2006 to
generate a profit increase of almost 80 percent.


Fast-growing Bank of America broke into the top 10, displacing
IBM, which fell out of the top 10 to 15th place after selling its
personal computer division to China's Lenovo.


One of the biggest gainers on the list was Google, up 112 spots
to rank 241st.


US Airways Group, which resulted from a merger of America West
and the old US Airways as it came out of bankruptcy, gained 208
spots to number 216.

