

The UN's chief war crimes prosecutor for the former Yugoslavia on
Monday denied making a deal with Serbia to withhold certain
documents from the International Court of Justice (ICJ).


A former UN prosecutor this weekend said Carla Del Ponte agreed
in 2003 to keep some papers secret, which weakened Bosnia's
genocide case against Serbia before the ICJ.


In a statement, Del Ponte stressed that there was no deal with
Belgrade to keep the papers from the UN court, which is separate
from the International Criminal Tribunal for former Yugoslavia
(ICTY) where she works.


"Any allegation that the office of the prosecutor has been
involved in hiding evidence is entirely false," her office said.


Del Ponte's office stressed that it was up to ICTY judges to
decide whether certain documents can be kept secret for reasons
of national security. Serbia made such a request and it was
granted.


Judges at the ICJ, where Bosnia's case was heard, could have
ordered Serbia to hand over the documents but declined to do so,
the office added.


Former UN prosecutor Geoffrey Nice, who led the case against ex-
Yugoslav president Slobodan Milosevic, said on Sunday that these
documents could have given a more complete picture of Serbia's
role in the 1992-95 war in Bosnia and the 1991-95 Croatian war.


The ICJ ruled in February that Serbia was not guilty of genocide
and absolved it from paying potentially huge war reparations.


It however branded the July 1995 massacre of some 8,000 Muslims
by Bosnian-Serb forces in Srebrenica as genocide and said
Belgrade did not do enough to prevent it.


Since the ruling there has been speculation among observers and
legal experts that the outcome would have been different if the
complete documents,  which allegedly show the very close ties
between the Serbian army and the Bosnian Serb army during the
wars, had been introduced into evidence.

