

Britain's Defence Secretary Des Browne, facing calls for his
resgination, apologised repeatedly in parliament Monday for his
decision to allow 15 sailors captured by Iran to sell their
stories.


Browne told MPs that he took full responsibility for allowing the
naval personnel to sell their accounts to the press, which
critics say has sullied the image and integrity of Britain's
armed forces.


Browne acknowledged that he should not have approved a Royal Navy
request on April 5 -- the day the group returned to Britain --
for them to be paid for interviews.


"I made a mistake. I have been completely open about that and to
the extent that what happened ... has caused people to question
the hard-won reputation of the armed forces, that is something I
profoundly regret," he said.


"But I remind people that precisely because this reputation is
hard won, it is not easily undermined."


Faye Turney, the only female detainee, reportedly received around
100,000 pounds (147,000 euros, 196,000 dollars) for interviews
with The Sun tabloid, and commercial broadcaster ITV.


The row has caused disquiet among the governing Labour Party
ranks and the armed forces, while the leader of the main
opposition Conservative Party, David Cameron, has said Browne
needs to justify his handling of the affair or quit.


Browne gave a full explanation of events leading up to the
group's seizure on March 12, diplomatic efforts to release them
and the handling of what he said was the "intense" media interest
in their stories.


Two separate reviews are being carried out, one on the group's
capture and another on the defence ministry's handling of the
media. The first is expected to take about six weeks, he added.


"As we go through this process, we should remember the most
important thing in this is that we got our people back safe and
on our terms," he said.

