

Survivors of the 1995 Srebrenica massacre set up a tent camp in
the Bosnian capital Monday to call on authorities to accept their
bid to break away from the country's Serb-run entity.


"It's unfortunate that it had to come to this, but this camp is a
symbol of our protest and we intend to stay here," said Camil
Durakovic, a representative of the protestors.


"Some 50 people who survived the genocide will live in this camp,
but others are willing to join us if nothing is done to meet our
request," he told journalists.


In the final months of Bosnia's 1992-1995 war, Serb forces
overran the UN- protected enclave of Srebrenica, summarily
killing 8,000 Muslim men. It is considered the worst atrocity in
Europe since World War II.


Under the Dayton peace accords that ended the conflict, Bosnia
was divided into two the Serb-run Republika Srpska and the
Muslim-Croat Federation. Srebrenica fell under the auspices of
Republika Srpska.


Srebrenica's Muslim majority council adopted a resolution last
month asking for the eastern town to be excluded from the Serb-
run entity and given the status of a special district.


The resolution came after the International Court of Justice
(ICJ) confirmed in February that the massacre amounted to
genocide.


Former Muslim refugees who returned to Srebrenica have threatened
to leave the town unless their demands are met.


"Politicians say they are doing something, but we don't see that
any progress has been made. Unless something changes soon, other
Muslim returnees to Srebrenica will join us," said Durakovic.


Some Muslim politicians have since argued that the ICJ ruling
proved Bosnia's Serb-run half was created on genocide and should
be abolished.


The two main suspects wanted by the UN war crimes court over
Srebrenica, Bosnian Serb wartime leader Radovan Karadzic and his
military chief Ratko Mladic, remain at large.

