

The White House on Monday sharply scolded Russia over the
repression of opposition demonstrations over the weekend and
urged Moscow to reaffirm publicly its respect for freedom of
speech.


"We are deeply disturbed by the heavy-handed manner in which this
weekend's demonstrations in Moscow and Saint Petersburg were
broken up by the authorities, and by an emerging pattern of use
of excessive force by the authorities in reaction to similar
events," said spokeswoman Dana Perino.


Russian police clubbed and detained opposition protestors in
Saint Petersburg on Sunday after a peaceful demonstration against
President Vladimir Putin, the second in two days resulting in
mass arrests.


"We welcome the call by some Russian officials for a thorough
investigation of the activities," said Perino, who told reporters
it was "intolerable" and "unacceptable" that some journalists
were detained.


"And we also call for the Russian government to reiterate its
commitment and attention to respect fully the international
standards of involving freedom of speech and the press and the
freedom to assemble," she said.


Russian police detained about 120 people in Saint Petersburg,
city police told ITAR-TASS news agency, following the protest by
The Other Russia, an opposition coalition that accuses Putin of
dismantling democracy.


The clashes in Saint Petersburg followed a violent crackdown on a
similar rally by The Other Russia in Moscow on Saturday. At least
200 people were arrested there, including one of the coalition's
leaders, former world chess champion Garry Kasparov, who was
released hours later.


"We underscore that allowing peaceful expressions of protest is
an element of democracy and a universally recognized human
right," said Perino. "These types of disruptions at peaceful
protests are unacceptable."

