

Syria on Monday repeated its desire for peace talks with Israel
which it said would face "the alternative of resistance" if it
continued to reject Arab initiatives.


"Syria is favourable towards relaunching the peace process in the
presence of Russian and American mediators," Information Minister
Mohsen Bilal told journalists.


Peace talks between Israel and Syria collapsed in 2000, mainly
because of deadlock over the return of the Golan Heights, which
Israel captured from Syria in the 1967 Six Day War and
unilaterally annexed in 1981.


"Syria wants to reach a just and comprehensive peace. If Israel
rejects the Arab peace initiative and principle of land for
peace, then the resistance will continue the alternative to get
back the Golan Heights," he said.


"Resistance is the right of people who live under occupation,
whether it be in Lebanon, Palestine or Iraq," Bilal said, calling
for "all occupied Arab territory to be liberated."


Israel has repeatedly rejected peace overtures by Syrian
President Bashar al- Assad in recent months, saying Damascus must
first stop supporting militant groups in Lebanon and the Gaza
Strip.


However, Prime Minister Ehud Olmert said on Sunday that Israel
was ready for talks with Arab states over a 2000 peace plan
relaunched at a summit last month that promises normalised
relations in exchange for Arab land captured in 1967, the
creation of a Palestinian state and the return of refugees.


Israel, which initially rejected the plan when it was first
unveiled in 2002, has said it could provide a basis for talks
provided there are amendments on the refugee issue.

