

The slaying at Virginia Tech University which left at least 22
people dead Monday is the worst school shooting in US history,
surpassing the Columbine massacre eight years ago.


In the April 20, 1999 Columbine High School slayings --
immortalized in a Michael Moore documentary -- 12 students and a
teacher were killed when two alienated students, Eric Harris and
Dylan Klebold, spent months plotting their revenge on classmates,
finally killing themselves to end the carnage.


The worst school massacre in US history was in 1927 when Andrew
Kehoe blew up a school in Bath, Michigan, killing 38 children and
seven teachers and injuring 61 others.


Here is a list of fatal shootings at US schools.


-- May 18, 1927: In Bath, Michigan, Andrew Kehoe blew up the
town's school, killing 38 children and seven teachers and
injuring 61 others.


-- August 1, 1966: In Austin, Texas, sniper Charles Whitman
killed 14 people and injured dozens from the clock tower at the
University of Texas.


-- January 1979: In San Diego, California Brenda Spencer, 17,
killed two adults and injured eight children, saying she did it
because "I don't like Mondays."


-- March 2, 1987: In Missouri, honors student Nathan Ferris, 12,
killed a classmate and then himself.


-- January 1, 1989: A man in Stockton, California shot dead five
children and wounded about 30 people.


-- November 15, 1995: In Giles County, Tennessee, Jaime Rouse,
17, killed a teacher and a student and injured two other
teachers.


-- February 2, 1996: In Moses Lake, Washington, Barry Loukaitis,
14, dressed up like a gunslinger and killed three people.


-- February 2, 1996: In Atlanta, Georgia 16 year old David Dubose
killed a teacher in the hallway.


-- February 19, 1997: In Alaska, Evan Ramsey, 16, killed a
classmate and his principal and injured two other students.


-- October 1, 1997: In Pearl, Mississippi, Luke Woodman, 16, shot
dead two students and wounded six others.


-- December 1, 1997: In Paducah, Kentucky, Michael Carneal, 14,
fatally shot three students and wounded five others during a
prayer group.


-- March 24, 1998: In Jonesboro, Arkansas, two boys aged 11 and
13 fatally shot four students and a teacher and injured 10 more
after setting off the school's fire alarm and opening fire as
people streamed outside.


-- April 24, 1998: In Edinboro, Pennsylvania, Andrew Wurst, 14,
killed a popular teacher and injures three more at an eigth grade
graduation dance.


-- May 21, 1998: In Springfield, Oregon, Kipland Kinkel, 15, shot
dead two students, wounded 25 after he was expelled for bringing
a gun to school.


-- April 20, 1999: In Littleton, Colorado, Eric Harris, 18, and
Dylan Klebold, 17 plotted for a year before they shot dead 13
people and wounded 24 more at their Columbine High School. They
then committed suicide.


-- August 10, 1999: In Los Angeles, California, a man fatally
shot three children and two adults at a pre-school.


-- November 21, 1999: A teenager in Deming, New Mexico shot dead
a female student.


-- March 5, 2001: In Santee, California, a teenager shot dead two
students and wounded 13.


-- March 21, 2005. On an Indian reservation in Red Lake,
Minnesota, a male teenager fatally shot nine people, including
five students.


-- November 8, 2005: Jacksboro, Tennessee, a teenager shot dead
an assistant principal and wounded two people.


-- September 27, 2006: In Bailey, Colorado, a man took six
students hostage and fatally shot a female student.


-- September 30, 2006: In Weston, Wisconsin, a teenager shot a
high school principal, who died the next day.


-- October 2, 2006: In Nickel Mines, Pennsylvania, a man shot 11
girls "execution-style" at an Amish school, killing five.

