

UN chief Ban Ki-moon on Monday hailed as a "very positive sign"
Khartoum's decision to accept the deployment of 3,000 UN
personnel to bolster struggling African Union troops in Darfur.


"This is a very positive sign," the secretary general told
reporters after he and AU Commission chair Alpha Oumar Konare
briefed the Security Council on the latest Darfur developments.


Ban said officials "intend to move quickly to prepare for the
deployment of the heavy support package," referring to the second
phase of the UN plan that is to culminate into the dispatch of a
20,000-strong joint AU-UN force to take over peacekeeping in
Darfur.


The UN chief urged "the troops and police providers as well as
donors to contribute generously toward the earliest possible
strengthening of the peacekeeping operation in Darfur," his
spokeswoman Michele Montas said.


He also urged an end to "hostilities on the ground without any
further delay."


Khartoum earlier Monday announced its consent for the dispatch of
3,000 UN personnel -- mostly military and police staff-- to
provide logistical, communications and air support to 7,000
under-equipped AU troops that have failed to stem four years of
bloody ethnic strife in Darfur.


Khartoum's green light came after Ban last week reassured Sudan
that helicopter gunships to be used by the UN contingent in
Darfur would be for deterrent, not offensive purposes.


In a letter sent to Ban and the Security Council presidency
Monday, Sudan's UN envoy Abdalmahmood Abdalhaleem confirmed his
government's consent for "the helicopters component," which was
the only remaining sticking point.


The tripartite -- AU, UN, Sudan -- deal on the second phase of
the UN Darfur plan was reached in Addis Ababa last Monday.

