

Top terror suspect Abu Zubaydah denied at a US military hearing
that he was an associate of Osama bin Laden and said he disagreed
with Al-Qaeda's philosophy of targeting civilians, a transcript
released Monday shows.


Abu Zubaydah acknowledged facilitating the training of jihadists
in Afghanistan to fight invaders of Muslim lands, but said his
group only came under bin Laden's control in 2000 under pressure
from the Taliban.


"Our doctrine has always been to go after enemy targets, and by
that I mean military targets, which include the military members
or civilians who work for or directly support the military," Abu
Zubaydah said in a statement read to a military tribunal.


"I disagreed with the Al-Qaeda philosophy of targeting innocent
civilians like those in the World Trade Center," he said.


Abu Zubaydah, a Saudi-born Palestinian whose real name is Zayn Al
Abidin Muhammad Husayn, appeared before the tribunal on March 27
at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.


A military officer assigned to represent him read a statement by
him but Abu Zubaydah also answered questions by the tribunal in
broken English.


The main evidence presented against him came from Ahmed Ressam,
an Algerian captured in December 2000 as he attempted to enter
the United States with a car loaded with explosives to bomb
Milennium 2000 celebrations.


Ressam said Abu Zubayhdah was the emir of two camps in
Afghanistan where he was trained, and that he knew about Ressam's
operation, although not specifically the date or the exact
target, the government alleged.

