

The leader of Germany's third biggest state on Monday retracted
his praise for a disgraced Nazi-era judge which has severely
embarrassed Chancellor Angela Merkel's conservative party.


Guenther Oettinger, the premier of the southwestern state of
Baden-Wuerttemberg, told a press conference: "I do not stand by
the way in which I expressed myself.


"So I stand before you to say I am sorry."


Oettinger caused outrage last week when he delivered a eulogy at
the funeral of Hans Filbinger, a former premier of Baden-
Wuerttemberg and a navy judge under the Third Reich, describing
him as "an opponent of the Nazi regime."


Filbinger, who died on April 1, resigned as state leader in 1978
following damaging revelations about his involvement in death
sentences against deserters in World War II.


He never expressed regret about his past.


The eulogy earned Oettinger, who is also the leader of Merkel's
conservative Christian Democrats in Baden-Wuerttemberg, a sharp
rebuke from the chancellor.


It also drew calls for his resignation from the Central Council
of Jews in Germany and the Simon Wiesenthal Centre in Jerusalem.


Oettinger exacerbated the crisis by waiting days to withdraw his
praise for Filbinger.


At the weekend, he regretted any "misunderstanding" his remarks
may have caused but insisted that he believed Filbinger opposed
the Nazis though he lacked the courage to do so openly.


Merkel's government coalition partners, the Social Democrats, and
political analysts accused him of courting the far-right and even
neo-Nazi supporters.


On Monday, Germany's top-selling newspaper Bild ran a guarded
apology from Oettinger, saying he never actually claimed that
Filbinger was a member of the resistance.


After he went further in the afternoon and finally withdrew his
words, Merkel said: "I expect that the apology will now be
accepted."


She was due to meet with him again on Tuesday in the western city
of Stuttgart.

