

The euro traded higher against the dollar on Monday, near two-
year highs, and struck new record levels against the Japanese yen
and Swiss franc.


In late European deals, the euro stood at 1.3550 dollars,
compared with 1.3532 dollars late on Friday in New York, but had
earlier hit its highest level against the US currency since
January 2005.


The dollar rose to 119.52 yen, from 119.22 yen on Friday, its
highest level since February 27.


The euro continued to power ahead, setting new records against
the yen and the Swiss franc in earlier trading.


It climbed earlier in the day to a record 162.43 yen in Asian
trade and 1.6471 Swiss francs later in the day.


Sterling meanwhile climbed to 1.9940 dollars -- the highest level
since September 1992, as analysts eyed a breakthrough of the
2.0-dollar level.


Data released on Monday by the US Commerce Department showed US
retail sales hitting a three-month high in March, rising by 0.7
percent, higher than the 0.4 percent gain economists had been
expecting.


However, momentum for the dollar was limited by the Empire survey
on manufacturing activity in the New York region.


The survey showed only a small rise after a massive slump the
previous month with the headline index up to 3.80 points in April
after dropping 22 points to 1.85 in March. Markets had been
predicting a much bigger increase to around 8.1.


"Concerns about what may be happening in the manufacturing sector
will remain in place, but at the current time the consumer seems
to be holding in well," said Ian Gunner, head of research at
Mellon FX.


"The strength of the sales data should offer some element of
support for the dollar, although further data strength will be
needed this week to prompt a more significant change in
sentiment," he added.


Sterling is close to the key 2.0-dollar level following the
release of strong economic data.


On Monday official data revealed a stronger-than-expected rise in
British wholesale prices.


"The data adds to the case for a May (rate) hike and should prove
supportive for the pound," Calyon analyst Daragh Maher said.


"Quite how far the rally in the pound can be extended will hinge
on tomorrow's (Tuesday's British) inflation data and on
Wednesday's minutes of the Bank of England's last rate setting
meeting, both of which we expect to prove supportive," he added.


On Wednesday, the minutes of the BoE's rate setting deliberations
are predicted to show a definite slant towards a rate hike, even
though the central bank chose to leave interest rates unchanged
at the near six-year high of 5.25 percent earlier this month.


The euro was changing hands at 1.3550 dollars, against 1.3532
dollars late on Friday, 162.40 yen (161.32), 0.6808 pounds
(0.6811) and 1.6440 Swiss francs (1.6436).


The dollar stood at 119.84 yen (119.22) and 1.2132 Swiss francs
(1.2144).


The pound was being traded at 1.9908 dollars (1.9866).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold advanced to
686.50 dollars per ounce, from 681.75 dollars late on Friday.

