

The value of mergers and acquisitions in the energy sector in
2007 approached the "mega merger" high levels of nearly a decade
ago, a report said Monday.


The value of deals involving energy companies jumped 16 percent
last year compared with 2005 to 291 billion dollars (215 billion
euros), said PricewaterhouseCoopers in its first O&G Deals'
report.


"Record cash flows have pushed deal activity in the oil and gas
industry to levels rivalling the mega merger highs of 1998," it
said.


Last year, the average deal value in the sector rose 18 percent
compared with 2005, PwC said. In 2006, the total value of deals
was worth about 215 billion euros.


The value of tie-ups surged because of a rise of national oil
companies (NOCs) from Russia, China and India, a boom in oil
services activity and the desire of private equity firms to have
a grip on the energy sector, it added.


Last December, the state-controlled Russian gas giant Gazprom
agreed to pay 7.45 billion dollars for half of the Sakhalin-2
liquified gas project in eastern Russia.


Gas deals dominated the list of the largest transactions in 2006,
while activity was for the first time not fuelled by the world's
major companies.


Mid-size deals accounted for half the increase in the value of
deals last year, the report said.


"The mix of players and forces at work mean the market for deal
activity is now more broadly based," commented Rick Roberge, US
energy transaction services leader at PricewaterhouseCoopers.


"In the period ahead, we are likely to see continued momentum in
oil and gas deal activity. The pressure to replace reserves and
the structural rationale for consolidation will remain.


"It is clear that consolidation has a long way to run in the
independent and mid-size sector of the market, particularly in
North America. At the same time, the NOCs and private equity
players will be key drivers of deal activity both in the mid-tier
and at the top end of the market," Roberge added.

