

US President George W. Bush said Monday that he was "shocked and
saddened" by the shooting rampage that left at least 32 dead and
many more wounded at a university in Virginia.


"Schools should be places of safety, and sanctuary, and learning.
When that sanctuary is violated, the impact is felt in every
American classroom and every American community," he said in a
brief statement at the White House.


"Our nation is shocked and saddened by the news of the shootings
at Virginia Tech today. The exact toll is not yet been confirmed,
but it appears that more than 30 people were killed and many more
were wounded," said Bush.


Bush said he had told Virginia Governor Tim Kaine and Virginia
Tech's president that Washington would offer any possible
assistance with the investigation or to help the community
recover.


"I told them that (First Lady) Laura (Bush) and I and many across
our nation are praying for the victims and their families and all
the members of the university community who have been devastated
by this terrible tragedy," he said.


"I told them that my administration would do everything possible
to assist with the investigation and I pledged that we would
stand ready to help local law enforcement and the local community
in any way we can during this time of sorrow," he said.


"Today our nation grieves with those who have lost loved ones at
Virginia Tech. We hold the victims in our hearts. We lift them up
in our prayers. And we ask a loving God to comfort those who are
suffering today," said Bush.

