

US officials said Monday it was unclear if two suicide bombers
were targeting US interests when they blew themselves up at the
weekend near Washington's consulate in the Moroccan city of
Casablanca.


The consulate remained closed to the public on Monday but US
diplomats were at work there on security-related issues, State
Department spokesman Sean McCormack said.


Two brothers blew themselves up near the consulate and an
American Language Center down the street on Saturday, but killed
no one else.


"We have not yet been able to determine with Moroccan authorities
exactly the target of these bombers," McCormack said.


"Some people have speculated that it may have been the consulate
or it may have been an American center that is right nearby, we
can't confirm that," he said.


The incident came days after three other suicide bombers killed
themselves and a four person was shot to death while all were
being pursued by police in Casablanca. Authorities said all six
appeared to be Islamist militants.


It also followed a series of coordinated suicide bomb attacks in
the capital of neighboring Algeria that killed 33 people and were
claimed by a group calling itself Al-Qaeda's North Africa branch.


The United States angered Algerian authorities following those
bombings by issuing an alert warning US nationals of the
possibility of further attacks.


The foreign ministry summoned the embassy's charge d'affaires on
Sunday to protest the warning.


But McCormack rebuffed the complaint.


"We have a responsibility to inform American citizens about
potential hazards and threats and we take that responsibility
seriously," he said.


"From time to time host countries will differ with our
assessments and where they differ we hear them out, but in this
case we belive that we did the prudent thing," he said.

