

Twelve people, including eight Rwandan Hutu rebels, were killed
during an offensive by the military of the Democratic Republic of
Congo in the eastern Kivu region, a general said Monday.


"The army launched an operation against the FDLR (Democratic
Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda) between April 12 and 15
which led to the death of 12 people, including eight Rwandan
rebels," general Sylvian Tshikez said.


Tshikez, speaking over the telephone, said the offensive in the
forest of Mugaba, about 80 kilometres (50 miles) southwest of
Bukavu -- the capital of South Kivu -- claimed the lives of four
civilians.


Three of them were related to the rebels, he said, adding that
the army had rescued two Congolese women held hostage by the
rebels.


Rwandan Hutu fighters, estimated to be about 10,000-strong by the
United Nations, are still present in eastern DR Congo where they
continue to terrorise locals.


They led 14 attacks last month in the Walungu and Kabare areas,
according to Kemal Saiki, spokesperson for the UN mission in the
DR Congo (MONUC).


Another 72 people were kidnapped and several rapes were reported.


Some of the rebels are accused of having participated in the
Rwandan genocide in 1994. Some 800,000 people, most of them
ethnic Tutsis, were killed within six weeks in Rwanda in 1994 by
members of the Hutu ethnic group.


The international community considers their presence in the DR
Congo as one of the main threats to stability in the region,
though they have been weakened in recent years by division and
desertions.

