

A US university in Virginia said Monday a shooting on its campus
had left multiple victims, as it urged students to stay behind
closed doors in a university website announcement.


There has been "a multiple shooting with multiple victims," said
Virginia Tech, adding one gunman had already been arrested and
police were searching for a possible second shooter.


Gunfire first broke out earlier Monday in a residence on the
campus in the small western Virginia town of Blacksburg, and was
then heard in a second building, called the Norris Hall.


"Those on campus are asked to remain where they are, lock their
doors and stay away from windows," said the university, which has
some 25,000 students, as it cancelled all classes for the rest of
the day.


The shooting comes just days ahead of the anniversary of the
country's deadliest school shooting at Columbine in Littleton,
Colorado when two students shot dead 12 classmates and a teacher
on April 20, 1999, before killing themselves.


"Police have one shooter in custody and as part of routine police
procedure, they continue to search for a second shooter," the
university said on its website.


"All people in university buildings are required to stay inside
until further notice," added the university, located some 425
kilometers (264 miles) southwest of Washington.


Virginia Tech's website also announced that a reward of 5,000
dollars had been posted on Sunday for information leading to the
arrest of those behind two bomb hoaxes at the campus on April 2
and 13.


US media also reported that the start of the academic year in
August was marked by another drama when an escaped prisoner tried
to hide on the Virginia Tech campus.


A security guard and a policeman were killed before the man was
re-arrested.

