

Zimbabwean authorities have cancelled licences for non-
governmental organisations in a crackdown on groups accused of
planning to oust veteran President Robert Mugabe, state
television said Monday.


"Government has annulled registration certificates of all NGOs in
order to sift out those seeking to force regime change in
Zimbabwe," the state broadcaster Zimbabwe Television said.


"As pro-opposition and western organisations masquerading as
relief agencies continue to mushroom, the government has annulled
the registration certificates of all NGOs in order to screen out
agents of imperialism from genuine organisations working to
uplift the wellbeing of the poor."


The report said Information Minister Sikhanyiso Ndlovu made the
announcement at a meeting of ruling party supporters in the
second city of Bulawayo.


"The opposition has of late been aligning itself with anti-
government religious groups under the umbrella of the Save
Zimbabwe Campaign," the report said.


"Rallies held under this banner have seen supposedly prayer
meetings turning into violent illegal gatherings."


Zimbabwean authorities have in the past accused western powers of
using NGOs and aid agencies to channel funds to the country's
main opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC).


The country's relations with the west became strained after the
US and the EU imposed targetted sanctions on Mugabe and cronies
from his ruling party following presidential elections in 2002
whose outcome was disputed by the MDC and western observers.


Mugabe often castigates MDC leaders as stooges of the west and
accuses British Prime Minister Tony Blair of harbouring plans to
recolonise Zimbabwe using the MDC as a front.


To keep an eye on the operations of NGOs, the authorities drafted
a bill allowing the state to demand records of finances and
operations of NGOs.

