

The European Parliament on Tuesday slammed a proposed
conservative, Church- backed sex education program in Croatia,
saying it encouraged discrimination.


In a letter sent to top Croatian officials, the EU parliament
deputies voiced "concern regarding the potential implementation
... of a reproductive health and sexual curriculum put forward by
the GROZD Association" of parents.


The program "supplies medically inaccurate and incomplete
information about sexual and reproductive health and family
planning as well as about available and legal contraceptive
methods," read the letter seen by AFP.


"Implementing a curriculum encouraging stigma and discrimination"
could jeopardise progress Croatia has made in over the issue,
said the deputies, who are members of a working group on
reproductive health.


They warned the proposed curriculum was "gender-biased and
features negative attitudes towards homosexuality, thus
contradicting Croatian laws which prohibit discrimination based
on gender or sexual orientation."


The program proposed by the GROZD Association is backed by the
Roman Catholic Church and is in line with Vatican teaching that
there should be no sexual relations outside marriage, no safe
sex, and no homosexuality.


It has been approved by Croatia's education ministry and needs
the health ministry's approval in order to be introduced in
elementary and secondary schools later this year.


Local non-governmental organisations have already urged
authorities to reject the program because it was not based on
scientific research and did not take into account statistics
according to which Croatians have sex for the first time at an
average age of 17.


Almost 90 percent of Croatia's population of 4.4 million are
Roman Catholics.

