

Fancied American challengers BMW Oracle emerged the only unbeaten
team after the fourth and fifth races Tuesday when the Louis
Vuitton Cup saw racing for only the third time in nine days.


With wind speeds reaching the required minimum of eight knots,
the 11 challengers hoping to advance and go on to win the right
to face Swiss team Alinghi in the America's Cup took to the water
off Valencia.


Italian yacht Luna Rossa suffered a shock defeat to South African
Team Shosholoza while one of the early favourites, Emirates Team
New Zealand soundly beat French outfit Areva Challenge in the
first round robin series.


Mascalzone Latino had stunned the New Zealanders in their first
race, but the Italians on Tuesday lost their unbeaten record,
with a defeat to Desafio Espanol.


The New Zealand team were quick off the mark and steadily
increased their advantage before winning by almost two minutes.


Next up was Luna Rossa, unbeaten until now, but they were stunned
by Shosholoza who held on for a victory by 36 seconds.


That win went some way to appeasing the South African's leader
Salvatore Sarno, who was incensed that racing was cancelled on
Monday.


"We are very, very unhappy because it was possible to navigate
today," he said Monday night.


"We believe the big teams are putting pressure on the race
committee not to give the green light to racing."


BMW Oracle Racing meanwhile remain the only unbeaten team after
defeating Swedes Victory Challenge.


The American-backed team sit top of the series, halfway through
the round-robin stage, with 13 points although they have raced
five times to the four races of some of their chasers - Emirates
Team New Zealand, Mascalzone Latino, Desafio Espanol, Areva
Challenge and +39 Challenge.

