

Scandal-plagued German engineering giant Siemens is considering
sacking its chief executive Klaus Kleinfeld to help it make a
fresh start amid a widening corruption probe, sources said
Tuesday.


"There are considerations on whether it is the right time to
extend Kleinfeld's contract or whether one should not wait in
light of the continuing investigation," said a source close to
Deutsche Bank chief executive and the number two on Siemens'
supervisory board, Josef Ackermann.


Kleinfeld's contract runs out September 30 and has not been
extended as yet. A Siemens spokesman confirmed that a decision
would be made on whether to extend or terminate his tenure at a
supervisory board meeting Wednesday.


Although Kleinfeld, 49, has not been personally implicated in a
spiralling slush fund affair at the company, observers said he
may have to pay the price for sleaze on his watch.


Yet he remains popular with many Siemens shareholders who have
seen their stock in the company steadily increase in value as it
has posted consistently strong results.


Business daily Financial Times Deutschland reported Tuesday that
Siemens was in talks with a number of "external candidates" and
that Ackermann favours the CEO of Linde, the world's leading
maker of industrial gases, Wolfgang Reitzle.


But Reitzle has indicated he is not interested in the job, sector
sources said.


Ackermann could not be reached for comment.


Reports said that a decision on a successor was unlikely at
Wednesday's supervisory board meeting and that a choice could be
postponed until the next meeting in July.


Heinrich von Pierer, one of Germany's most powerful businessmen,
announced last week he was quitting Siemens' supervisory board
post to help the company pull itself out of a growing mire of
corruption allegations.


Prosecutors allege that company managers siphoned off hundreds of
millions of euros (dollars) in company money to obtain foreign
contracts.

