

The United States warned Palestinians on Tuesday not to abandon a
spotty ceasefire with Israel, saying the "pathway to Palestine"
and an independent state lies through negotiations, not violence.


The armed wing of the movement Hamas earlier Tuesday declared its
five-month truce with Israel over after Israeli forces killed
nine Palestinians in a series of raids over the weekend.


The group, which the US and Europe consider terrorists, quickly
fired a salvo of mortars and homemade rockets into southern
Israel on Tuesday, the anniversary of the Jewish state's
creation.


State Department spokesman Sean McCormack questioned the impact
of the Hamas announcement, saying that the militant Islamist
group had continued to fire rockets into Israel from the Gaza
Strip despite the ceasefire.


"Whatever the arrangements for a so-called truce might have been,
the real issue remains that the Palestinian people need to decide
whether or not they want to realize a Palestinian state," he told
reporters.


The pathway for Palestine is via the negotiating table, not
through the use of violence or support for violence or terror,"
he said.


The United States has rejected a Palestinian government formed
last month between Hamas and the US-backed Fatah party of
President Mahmud Abbas because of Hamas' refusal to formally
recognize Israel and renounce violence.


Under the terms of the truce announced last November, Israel's
army withdrew troops from the Gaza Strip in return for an
undertaking by militant groups to halt rocket fire into Israel.


The truce largely held, but not all groups signed up to it on the
Palestinian side and some rocket fire against Israel continued.

