

The Boeing Company announced Tuesday that Virgin Atlantic has
ordered 15 of its future 787 Dreamliners, the biggest order for
the plane so far from a European carrier.


The order, worth some 2.8 billion dollars at list price, had been
listed on Boeing's records as coming from an unidentified
customer.


Virgin also took options for an additional eight 787s and
purchase rights for an additional 20 of the aircraft, for a total
bill of up to eight billion dollars.


The airline hopes to take delivery starting in 2011 and will
capitalize on the plane's longer range by offering direct flights
from Britain to Perth, Australia and Hawaii.


The British carrier also plans new routes for the planes, to
Bangkok, Melbourne, Rio de Janeiro, Seattle, Toronto and
Vancouver.


"Virgin Atlantic is pleased to introduce the Boeing 787
Dreamliner as our aircraft of the future," said Steve Ridgway,
chief executive officer of Virgin Atlantic, in a joint statement
with Boeing.


"This revolutionary aircraft will bring a step change to the
industry, substantially reducing environmental impact and
incorporating innovative design and advanced technology, while
providing an enhanced flying experience for our passengers," he
said.


Virgin executives cited the quiet operation and fuel efficiency
of the lighter- weight Boeing plane, which is 27 percent more
fuel efficient than the comparable Airbus A340-300 jet, as
environmentally responsible factors in their decision to go with
the US manufacturer.


The Boeings will also be ready before the Airbus A350-XWB, the
Airbus offering that Virgin could have selected.


Also on Tuesday, Air Canada announced the purchase of 23 Boeing
787s, bringing its total order for the Dreamliner to 37 jets, for
delivery to begin in 2010.


Canada's largest carrier had agreed previously to buy 14 of
aircraft to replace its aging Airbus A340 and A330 and Boeing 767
fleets in a deal worth an estimated 3.5 billion dollars.

