

Apple's former top lawyer, Nancy Heinen, was charged by US
federal regulators in a civil suit Tuesday with participating in
a fraud related to Apple stock option awards.


The US Securities and Exchange Commission said Heinen had
participated in a scheme to backdate two large stock option
grants to top Apple executives, including chief executive Steve
Jobs, and then altered company records in a bid to hide her
wrongdoing.


The market watchdog said it had also filed civil charges, which
were simultaneously settled, against Apple's former chief
financial officer, Fred Anderson, alleging he should have seen
what Heinen was doing and that he failed to correct Apple's
financial disclosures.


Anderson agreed to pay 3.5 million dollars as part of a
settlement with the SEC.


Regulators said Heinen's actions led to Apple misreporting its
expenses by nearly 40 million dollars.


The practice of granting special stock options to top executives
is common at many American companies, but it is improper to alter
the dates on which the options were awarded without informing the
SEC and investors.


"The Apple case demonstrates the Commission's ongoing commitment
to take action against stock options backdating and other
executive compensation abuses," SEC enforcement chief Linda
Chatman said in a statement.


"When corporate officers enrich themselves at the expense of a
company's shareholders, the Commission will hold the responsible
individuals accountable," Chatman said.


The SEC charges follow a high level SEC probe into Apple's stock
option practices.


The regulator's civil charges seek financial penalties against
Heinen.


Officials said the SEC would not be bringing any charges against
Apple due to its cooperation with the probe.

