

Inmates set fires and tried to tear down a fence Tuesday during a
massive prison riot in the US state of Indiana, injuring at least
two members of the corrections staff, officials said.


"There is no way you can have a full scale riot and not have some
kind of injuries," Mayor Tom Nipp told Fox News, adding he did
"not have any specific information yet as to the nature of those
injuries."


Police used tear gas and water cannons to disperse the
"disturbance" at the New Castle Correctional Facility, a medium
security men's prison, the Department of Corrections was quoted
as saying by the Indianapolis Star newspaper.


Prisoners set at least three blazes and attempted to rip down
fences, prompting police and corrections officials to try to
secure the perimeter and determine if any inmates had escaped.


Television footage showed white-clad inmates crowding along
walkways on the prison grounds and fires burning in various
locations around the prison, which can house 2,400 inmates.


Around two hours after the riot broke out, a police spokeswoman
told AFP it had been "contained, but they (corrections officials)
have not taken back over yet."


Joseph Garcia, senior tactical instructor for US Corrections-
Special Operations Group, told Fox that the fact that fires were
set outside was "a good sign."


"If they were burning on the inside we would have a lot of toxic
fumes and the casualty rate would be very high."


Corrections officials told local Indiana television that there
were 1,000 inmates from Indiana currently at the facility, which
is state-owned but privately managed.


At least 630 extra inmates have been transferred to the prison
from Arizona, a process that began last month, Katie Decker of
the Arizona Department of Correction told Indiana's Channel 8
television.


Both groups of inmates took part in the riot, officials said.

