

The White House on Tuesday branded Syria's parliamentary
elections "a meaningless exercise" marred by unfair laws and
intimidation tactics by the authorities.


"On April 22 and 23, (Syrian) President (Bashar) al-Assad failed
again to deliver on his long-promised reforms, rendering Syria's
parliamentary elections a meaningless exercise," spokeswoman Dana
Perino said in a statement.


"Instead, the Syrian regime used a combination of unjust laws,
intimidation, and manipulation by security forces to undermine
independent, critical voices," she said. "In manipulating this
'election,' the Syrian regime once again proved it cares little
for the opinions and wishes of its own people."


Voting for Syria's parliament ended on Monday with reportedly low
turnout and a widespread lack of enthusiasm for the two-day polls
which opposition activists had urged supporters to boycott.


Nearly 12 million Syrians were eligible to vote, according to the
official SANA news agency, which also reported that 2,500
candidates stood for the 250 seats in the assembly. Results were
expected to be announced on Tuesday.


The vote took place "in total freedom and transparency," SANA
said on Monday, without giving turnout figures for the first
day's vote on Sunday.


The White House disagreed and admonished Syria that "elections
are not rituals conducted for their own sake."


"The goal of any free, transparent, and democratic election is to
allow people to have a say in how their country is governed. The
United States supports the Syrian people's hopes for true
democracy, respect for human rights, and freedom of expression,"
said Perino.


"We share their desire that some day free elections will be
possible in Syria," the spokeswoman said.

