

A Moroccan preacher jailed for involvement in the 2003 Casablanca
suicide bombings admitted to "serious errors" in his teachings on
Tuesday, and urged Islamist movements here to exercise restraint.


Abdelwahab Rafiki, also known as Abou Hafs, is considered one of
the top theologians of the banned Salafia Jihadia movement. He
was jailed for 30 years in 2003 for his role in the Casablanca
attacks that killed 45 people, including 12 bombers.


"I have the courage to say that my experience as a preacher was
sullied by several serious errors, caused by the anger of youth
and the force of passion," he said in a statement published in
Islamist newspaper Attajdid on Tuesday.


He condemned the March 11 suicide bombing in an Internet cafe in
Casablanca, which killed the bomber and wounded several others.
Six other suspected suicide bombers died in explosions in the
port city a month later.


In his statement, dated April 12, Hafs also denied ever
supporting violence or being part of Salafia Jihadia, which is
accused of masterminding the 2003 attacks. He said he was "a
seeker of (religious) science who follows God".


He addressed his appeal for moderation not just to extremists in
jail "but all Islamist movements, with a view to avoiding
excesses", and welcomed a suggestion to improve dialogue between
Islamic scholars and Islamists in jail.


"I am ready to express my regret as soon as you put your finger
on a deviation or a belief that results from your teaching," he
told the scholars.


Abdelali Hami Eddine, the leader of the Karama human rights forum
which is close to the Islamists in Morocco, recommended dialogue
with extremists in jail as was practiced in Egypt in the late
1990s with leaders of Jamal Islamiya. They subsequently announced
an end to violence.

