

The euro skirted close to a record high against the dollar on
Tuesday following the release of two disappointing US economic
indicators.


The single European currency in late day trade at one point
surged to 1.3635 dollars and appeared to be closing in on 1.3666
dollars, its record high struck on December 30, 2004.


The euro was later trading at 1.3619 dollars against 1.3575 late
Monday in New York.


The dollar was meanwhile at 118.55 yen after 118.64 on Monday.


"Soft US data combined with expectations of steady if
unspectacular European growth ahead is helping narrow the
dollar's interest advantage further," said Thomson IFR Markets
analyst Jamie Coleman.


The greenback suffered from a report by The Conference Board that
US consumer confidence fell in April to the lowest level in a
year as high gasoline prices and a tighter job market dampened
spirits.


The Conference Board said its consumer confidence index fell to
104.0 from 108.2 in March, in the second straight monthly
decline.


The National Association of Realtors later disclosed that US home
sales plummeted by their biggest amount in 18 years, much more
sharply than expected in March and dashing hopes the market was
on the verge of a rebound.


The association said existing home US sales sank a heavy 8.4
percent to an annualised pace of 6.12 million units last month,
well below most forecasts that had anticipated sales of 6.45
million units.


The drop in sales was the largest since January 1989 and home
sales are now at their lowest level since June 2003.


Both the euro and the pound had been lower earlier in the day on
profit-taking, with the US data providing opportunities to sell
the dollar again.


But Standard Chartered currency analyst Marios Maratheftis said
the combination of strengthening economic momentum in the
eurozone and Britain should continue to support the two
currencies in the short term.


"The negative trend in the dollar still has a bit longer to run,"
he predicted, although he said the trend was likely to reverse
itself starting in the third quarter.


There were nonetheless reports Tuesday of weaker-than-expected
data on eurozone industrial orders and the latest trends for
British industry.


But neither report is likely to alter market expectations that
the Bank of England will raise interest rates again in May and
the European Central Bank in June.


Elsewhere, the Australian dollar remained weak, though well off
earlier lows that set in after soft inflation data overnight
diminished expectations of a rise in interest rates in May.


The euro was changing hands at 1.3619 dollars, against 1.3575
dollars late Monday, 161.46 yen (161.05), 0.6803 pounds (0.6784)
and 1.6387 Swiss francs (1.6422).


The dollar stood at 118.55 yen (118.64) and 1.2033 Swiss francs
(1.2095).


The pound was being traded at 2.0023 dollars (2.0004).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold slipped to 688.40
dollars per ounce from 688.70 dollars late on Monday.

