

Anti-globalisation groups said on Tuesday they were expecting
100,000 people to join protests against the Group of Eight summit
in Germany in June.


"We are expecting the biggest international demonstration in
Germany for many years," Werner Raetz, of the international anti-
globalisation group Attac, said at a press conference in Berlin.


"The G8 has imposed a neo-liberal model at the centre of which is
big capital and this model is increasingly dividing society into
rich and poor," Raetz said.


The German authorities take a more conservative view of the
number of protestors.


The head of the German office for the protection of the
constitution, Heinz Fromm, estimates that no more than 50,000
will converge on the venue of the June 6-8 summit in the northern
coastal town of Heiligendamm.


Three trains have been specially scheduled to take demonstrators
to the nearby city of Rostock and two campsites, each capable of
hosting up to 12,000 people, will be set up.


Attac and the environmental organisation Greenpeace say the
protest will be "peaceful in principle." But other more militant
groups such as the Interventionist Left warn that "all forms of
action are legitimate," according to its spokesman Benjamin
Laumeyer.


Several G8 summits in recent years have been marred by violence,
notably the meeting in the Italian city of Genoa in 2001 when an
anti-capitalist protester was killed in riots.


Demonstrations at recent G8 meetings have been kept well away
from the venue although violence has taken place in nearby towns.


The leaders of Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan,
Russia and the United States will attend the summit.

