

Europe's main stock markets closed lower on Tuesday in line with
a weak performance on Wall Street, with the Spanish stock
exchange hit by fears of an imminent crash in the housing market.


In London the FTSE 100 index shed 0.77 percent to close at
6,429.50 points, in Paris the CAC 40 lost 0.53 percent to
5,886.03 points while in Frankfurt the Dax retreated 0.89 percent
to finish at 7,270.32 points.


In Madrid the Ibex 35, which has struck record highs in recent
weeks, closed down 2.73 percent at 14,578.7 points with the
shares of leading construction and real estate companies showing
sharp losses.


The euro rose to 1.3619 dollars.


US stocks turned lower Tuesday as Wall Street reacted to weaker-
than-expected reports on the housing market and consumer
confidence, overshadowing generally strong earnings reports.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average reversed course after a positive
opening and fell 0.04 percent to 12,914.36 in late morning
trading.


The Nasdaq composite dropped 0.43 percent to 2,512.78 and the
broad-market Standard and Poor's 500 index added 0.10 percent to
1,482.39.


Japanese share prices closed flat Tuesday, weighed down by Wall
Street's retreat and investor caution ahead of a slew of domestic
company results and economic data due this week.


In Madrid, the unease over the housing sector was triggered by
the collapse of shares in Spanish real estate company Astroc,
which have lost more than 60 percent in less than a week, after
an auditor's report raised concerns over its finances.


The market was also spooked by comments on the Spanish property
market by the president of French construction firm Eiffage,
Jean-Francois Roverato.


Roverato justified rejecting a takeover offer from Spanish
construction group Sacyr on the grounds that the Spanish firm's
real estate assets in its home market "could very soon be revised
down."


Shares in construction and property groups fell sharply, with
Inmocaral shedding 11.27 percent to 4.33 euros, Sacyr
Vallehermoso down 8.15 percent to 40.80 euros and FCC down 6.70
percent to 70.35 euros.


In London, the biggest faller on the FTSE 100 was Yell, which
plummeted 20.24 percent to 488.50 pence after the publisher
warned on its US business outlook owing to increased competition.


Elsewhere, Alliance Boots was again in focus after US private
equity group KKR emerged as the winner in a bidding battle to
acquire Europe's biggest pharmacy chain.


KKR, which is joined in its bid by the executive deputy chairman
of Alliance Boots, Stefano Pessina, raised its bid to 11.01
billion pounds (16.2 billion euro, 22.0 billion dollars) on
Tuesday.


A rival British consortium led by private equity group Terra
Firma withdrew its offer for the group.


At the close on Tuesday, Alliance Boots showed a loss of 0.49
percent to 1,121 pence.


In Asia, the Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading
shares fell minutely to 17,451.77 points.


Hong Kong's key Hang Seng Index also closed little changed at
20,572.80 points, as a recovery in China Mobile helped the market
recoup early losses driven by Wall Street.


Elsewhere in Europe, in Milan the SP/Mib index lost 0.38 percent
to 43,303 points, in Amsterdam the AEX fell 0.54 percent to
532.56 points and in Brussels the Bel 20 shed 0.19 percent to
4,612.31 points.


The Swiss SMI index fell 0.48 percent to 9,392.42 points.

