

Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki called on Kuwaiti officials
Tuesday to write off billions of dollars in debt and to reopen
the emirate's embassy in Baghdad, officials said.


After meeting Kuwaiti Emir Sheikh Sabah al-Ahmed al-Sabah, Maliki
held talks with Prime Minister Sheikh Nasser Mohammed al-Ahmed
al-Sabah.


Maliki arrived from Egypt on a two-day official visit, his second
as Iraqi prime minister.


"The Iraqis are hoping that all debts are forgiven, but they
understand the position of Kuwait which is governed by its
legislature," Kuwaiti Foreign Minister Sheikh Mohammed al-Sabah
told reporters after the talks.


Sheikh Mohammed stressed however that Iraq's most pressing
problem was not debt but insecurity.


"We have allocated funds for reconstruction and have determined
projects, but the security situation did not permit undertaking
any project," he said.


Official sources told AFP that Maliki called on Kuwait to follow
in the footsteps of neighbouring Saudi Arabia, which has
reportedly agreed to forgive 80 percent of Iraq's outstanding
debt.


Iraq owes Kuwait an estimated 16 billion dollars.


Maliki also called on Kuwait to reopen its embassy in Baghdad,
closed in 1990 when the forces of then president Saddam Hussein
invaded the Gulf emirate.


"We have discussed the reopening of diplomatic missions ... We
called for naming an Iraqi ambassador to Kuwait and a Kuwaiti
ambassador to Iraq," Sheikh Mohammed said.


He added that Kuwait was prepared to reopen its embassy but was
still searching for a secure site within Baghdad's fortified
administrative and diplomatic compound in the face of the
persistent violence in the Iraqi capital.

