

Congress on Tuesday dismissed Ecuador's high court justices after
they reinstated 50 lawmakers who were ousted in March for
opposing constitutional reforms, according to congressional vice
president Byron Pacheco.


"The nine members of the Constitutional Court have been
dismissed," said Pacheco, insisting the motion to remove them
predated the court's ruling on Monday.


Pacheco said the judges had overstayed the term for which
Congress had elected them.


But the move came after leftist President Rafael Correa rejected
Monday's court ruling and insisted the ouster of the opposition
lawmakers remain in force.


The deputies were ousted in March after they sought to block far-
reaching constitutional reforms promoted by Correa. A further
seven lawmakers were dismissed at the time, but the court said
they had not filled out documents requesting their reinstatement.


With the opposition lawmakers out of the 100-strong, unicameral
Congress, authorities held a referendum on April 16 that paved
the way for the election of a national assembly that will rewrite
the constitution.


The ouster of the lawmakers had plunged Ecuador in a deep
political crisis and further polarized the chronically volatile
South American country, where Correa was elected in November on
promises of radical changes, including a renegotiation of foreign
debt and a review of oil contracts.


Opponents of the president claim Correa is following in the
footsteps of Venezuela's leftist President Hugo Chavez.


The firebrand Venezuelan leader had successfully pushed for the
election of a constituent assembly packed with his supporters in
1999.


Following the April 16 referendum, Ecuadorans will be called to
elect later this year a national assembly that will be tasked
with writing a new constitution.

