

The widow of Russia's first president, Boris Yeltsin, wept
quietly Tuesday as priests chanted liturgies over his open
coffin, starting 24 hours of religious services before his burial
on Wednesday.


Hundreds filed past the coffin in Moscow's vast Christ the
Saviour Cathedral, laying flowers and lighting candles as white-
robed priests waved incense and stony-faced Kremlin guards stood
watch.


"He was a powerful, beautiful man, like Russia, like a real
Siberian," said Valentina Kupreyeva, 53, among around 1,500
mourners who trickled into the church for the first hours of the
service.


A church official said the cathedral would be open to mourners
for most of the night.


Eight pallbearers carried Yeltsin's coffin up the steps of the
cathedral as a military honour guard stood by under grey skies.


Yeltsin helped build the marble and gold cathedral during his
time in the Kremlin as a symbol of Russia's resurgence from 70
years of atheist Bolshevik rule.


"He is the first of our leaders who we are mourning in a church,
which means serious changes have taken place in the country
thanks to him," said 50-year-old artist Yevgeny.


Yeltsin is the first to be given the honour of lying in state in
the cathedral's enormous main hall, the church official said.


Yeltsin's widow, Naina Yeltsin, and her two daughters embraced
friends and colleagues, including some of the inner circle who
helped run Russia during Yeltsin's tumultuous rule.


Ordinary mourners, many of whom bore the brunt of his mistakes,
defended him against his critics.


"I am thankful to him. I wake up in a free country, everything
now depends on us," said Dmitry Andreyev, who carried a bunch of
roses into the service.


"He gave us all chances," said Sergei, a 35-year-old businessman.
"Some of us were able to use them."

