

Clashes between Ethiopian troops and Islamist insurgents on
Tuesday in the Somali capital killed at least 65 people and
raised the death toll to 321 in seven days, a rights group said.


"Our tally of the dead indicate that 29 civilians were killed and
49 wounded," said Sudan Ali Ahmed, chairman of the Elman Peace
and Human Rights Organisation which monitors casualty rates.


"We also have 36 insurgents killed and 44 wounded," he added.


The dominant Hawiye clan elders did not give a specific toll for
Tuesday, but said 293 Somali civilians had been killed and 587
wounded in the week-long clashes.


"The casualty figures do not include Hawiye fighters, Ethiopian
and government troops," said Hawiye spokesman Hussein Siad
Korgab.


In addition, 80,000 families have been displaced and property
estimated to be worth 600 million dollars has been destroyed,
Korgab added.


Mutilated corpses were rotting in the streets of the capital and
in inaccessible residential areas as heavy fighting barred
residents and aid workers from collecting them for burial,
witnesses said Tuesday.


"The Ethiopians have used massive power that should never be
allowed in residential areas. Their tanks have rained shells
indiscriminately on houses," Ahmed said.


The UN refugee agency said last week that more than 321,000
people had fled the seaside capital since February 1, but elders
told AFP that figure could now be closer to 400,000 with the
exodus of thousands more over the past seven days.


Most of them are camped under trees on the city's outskirts
without supplies or protection from reported disease outbreaks.


Ethiopian troops are helping the weak transitional government
assert some form of control over the city, which was briefly
captured by an Islamist alliance last year.

