

Dunfermline striker Jim McIntyre scored a late winner from the
penalty spot to seal a 1-0 win over Hibernian in a replay of the
Scottish Cup semi-final on Tuesday.


Dunfermline will now meet Celtic in the May 26 final at Hampden,
where Gordon Strachan's Glasgow giants will start as the
favourites having secured their second straight league title with
a 2-1 win away at Kilmarnock on Sunday.


After a goalless first tie, Dunfermline manager Stephen Kenny had
called on his troops to dig deep and add some lustre to what has
been a disastrous Scottish Premier League campaign for the
Fifers.


Dunfermline are currently bottom of the SPL, however his players
answered his call to give the Pars their first shot at Scottish
Cup glory in over 40 years.


Victory over John Collins' Easter Road side not only gave the
Pars a glimpse at picking up some rare silverware, it also
guaranteed qualification for next season's UEFA Cup even if they
lose to Celtic in the showpiece match of the Scottish season.


After a goalless first tie, the second looked certain to be
decided by extra- time and penalties.


However with less than four minutes remaining the referee pointed
to the spot when Chris Hogg hauled down on-loan Liverpool
youngster Adam Hammill in the box.


McIntyre stepped up for the pressure kick and he kept his cool to
chip the ball straight down the middle and fire Dunfermline into
the final.


Whatever happens in their May 26 date with Celtic, Kenny should
still have some room for manoeuvre when it comes to battling on
the continent.


Last season Kenny was manager of Irish side Derry City when they
defeated Gretna and Swedish side IFK Gothenburg in the UEFA Cup.

