

Forest rangers shot dead two poachers in a world-famed rhino park
in northeast India on Tuesday, a day after authorities warned
that hunters of the endangered beasts would be killed, officials
said.


"The encounter took place... before the poachers were able to do
any damage to the wildlife" in the 430-square-kilometre (166
-square-mile) Kaziranga National Park, Assam's chief wildlife
warden M.C. Malakar told AFP.


"A silencer-fitted rifle was recovered from the two dead
poachers," he said.


Kaziranga, named a world heritage site by UNESCO in 1985, lies
some 220 kilometres (158 miles) east of Assam's largest city of
Guwahati.


The killing of the two men came a day after Assam authorities
announced a massive anti-poaching drive to protect the one-horned
rhino that included deployment of an extra 50 rangers and 30
armed guards in Kaziranga.


The new measures were put in place after six rhinos had been
found dead since January in the park, home to about 1,855 rhinos
of the world's estimated 2,700 one-horned Indian rhinos.


"All our rangers are on maximum alert with the round-the-clock
vigil intensified all along the park and its periphery," the
warden said.


Experts believe that the rhino's horns, which are purported to
have  aphrodisiac properties, are smuggled to China or sold in
other Asian markets.


Buyers from the Middle East also use the horns to make ornamental
dagger handles. Estimates suggest the horns can sell for up to
35,000 dollars a kilogram (2.2 pounds).


Five rhinos were poached last year and seven were killed in 2005.


About 500 rhinos have been killed by poachers over the past 20
years, according to government estimates.


India's western state of Gujarat is also battling poachers.


It stepped up security in its Gir forest reserves last week
following the mysterious deaths of around a dozen rare Asiatic
lions.

