

Afghanistan will use all means to stop Pakistan erecting a fence
on their border to stop the movement of Taliban militants, the
foreign ministry said Tuesday.


The ministry also denied Afghanistan had apologised for an
incident last week in which its troops tore down part of the new
fence being erected by Pakistani soldiers, sparking a gun battle
which caused no casualties.


Pakistani foreign ministry spokeswoman Tasnim Aslam said in
Islamabad the incident was raised in a commission of the Afghan,
Pakistan and NATO-led militaries and "there was an apology."


This was rejected by her Afghan counterpart, Sultan Ahmad Baheen.
The ministry had this week summoned the Pakistan ambassador in
Kabul to lodge a protest about the fence, he told AFP.


"We will use all legal tools to stop this fence," he said. "It is
not a solution to crossborder attacks, it divides families living
in the area."


Pakistan's President Pervez Musharraf, a key US ally, announced
late last year plans to fence 35 kilometres (22 miles) of the
2,500-kilometre border to stop the movement of militants Kabul
says are involved in attacks inside Afghanistan.


Kabul, which does not recognise the border drawn up by colonial
Britain in 1893, has written to United Nations chief Ban Ki-moon
to express "deep concern" over the issue.


But Pakistani officials have said they are determined to go ahead
with the fencing. An earlier plan to mine the border to stop
militants was dropped after widespread international criticism.


The issue is likely to be raised at a meeting in Turkey this
weekend between Musharraf and Afghan President Hamid Karzai that
is intended to clear up misunderstandings between the neighbours
who accuse each other of not doing enough against the Taliban

