

Kosovo's ethnic Albanian prime minister on Tuesday demanded
Russia clarify comments that Moscow was ready to block the
province's proposed independence before the UN Security Council.


"It is known that this country (Russia) has a different position
towards the solution of the status of Kosovo and I have asked for
an explanation from the Russian office in Pristina," said Agim
Ceku.


"This (veto) should not and will not influence the implementation
of our agenda," he told reporters after a meeting with local
leaders.


Ceku said any Russian moves to veto the independence plan by UN
envoy Martti Ahtisaari before the UN Security Council would go
against the will of the rest of the international community.


It would be a "'no' not only to Kosovo but also to the United
States, Great Britain and the European Union," said Ceku, who
heads a provisional government under the supervision of a United
Nations mission.


Earlier Tuesday, Russia's Deputy Foreign Minister Vladimir Titov
indicated that Moscow was ready to veto the Kosovo independence
plan before the Security Council.


"The solution based on the recommendation by Ahtisaari will not
pass at the UN Security Council," Titov was quoted as saying by
the Interfax news agency.


"The threat of a veto should push the two sides into finding
mutually acceptable compromises," ITAR-TASS news agency reported
him as saying.


Russia has traditionally supported the position of the Serbian
government, which fervently opposes the independence of the
ethnic Albanian majority province it sees as the country's
historic heartland.


Kosovo has been run by the UN mission since mid-1999, after NATO
bombing helped to end a bloody Serbian crackdown on independence-
seeking ethnic Albanians, who comprise around 90 percent of its
two million population.

