

Jury selection in the murder trial of legendary music producer
Phil Spector was completed on Tuesday, paving the way for opening
statements in the high-profile case on Wednesday.


Six alternate jurors were confirmed after two days of questioning
by lawyers at Los Angeles Superior Court, following the selection
last week of a 12-member jury to here the case.


Spector, 67, is accused of shooting dead B-movie actress Lana
Clarkson at his castle-like home in Los Angeles on February 3,
2003.


The case is the highest-profile celebrity trial in Los Angeles
since O.J. Simpson was acquitted of murder in 1995.


Prosecutors say Spector, famed for his work with The Beatles,
Tina Turner, The Ronettes and the Ramones, killed Clarkson hours
after meeting her for the first time at the Hollywood night club
where she worked as a hostess.


Spector is regarded as one of the most influential figures in pop
music history. In the early 1960s he produced hits including "Da
Doo Ron Ron," "Then He Kissed Me," "Be My Baby, Baby" and "You've
Lost That Lovin' Feelin."


Spector, who denies committing the murder, is alleged to have
told police officers who arrived at his imposing mock chateau
immediately after the shooting: "I didn't mean to shoot her."


A few weeks before the shooting, Spector described himself as
"relatively insane" and tortured by "devils inside me." He told
Esquire magazine in 2003 that Clarkson shot herself. "She kissed
the gun," said Spector.


Clarkson starred in movies such as 1987's "Amazon Women on the
Moon" and 1991's "The Haunting of Morella" but her career had
stalled at the time of her death.

