

A coroner has ordered that the body of murdered Pakistan cricket
coach Bob Woolmer be released to his family in South Africa,
Jamaican government authorities said.


Coroner Patrick Murphy called in the police officer in charge of
the murder investigation, Mark Shields, and formally "gave
instructions for the process of repatriating the body to
commence," the ministry of national security said in a statement
on Monday.


Shields had spoken to Woolmer's widow and informed her of the
latest developments, the statement said.


Officials did not say when the body would be taken to South
Africa but Shields was working with the funeral home to have the
body repatriated "as soon as possible," the statement said.


Woolmer's wife Gill and family are resident in Cape Town, South
Africa and have been asking for his body to be sent home to them.


The body of the 58-year-old former England international has been
in judicial limbo since March 18 when he was found dead in his
Kingston hotel room the day after Pakistan had lost a World Cup
game to Ireland.


Detectives launched a murder investigation after an autopsy
indicated that the former England Test player had been strangled,
but they have yet to name any suspects.


The Kingston coroner in charge of the case meanwhile had ruled
that the body could not be released until after an inquest had
been completed.


That inquest had been scheduled to open on Monday, but this was
postponed by the Jamaican justice ministry following advice from
the coroner. No reason was given for the delay.


Around 30 police investigators are working full-time on the
Woolmer investigation with over 100 witness statements taken. Two
Pakistan police are also working on the case as are four officers
from Scotland Yard in London.


Woolmer's death has led to a fevered round of speculation as to a
motive. One theory is that his death was linked to match-fixing
and illegal betting in cricket.

