

A newly-found mineral contains the same elements described in the
fictional kryptonite used by the enemies of comic-book and film
superhero "Superman," a scientist said Tuesday.


The white and powdery mineral at London's Natural History Museum
has been named instead jadarite after the Serb region where it
was found, museum mineralogist Chris Stanley said.


In the 2006 movie "Superman Returns", the superhero's arch enemy
Lex Luthor steals a kryptonite rock fragment from the Metropolis
Museum. On the case are written the words "sodium lithium boron
silicate hydroxide with fluorine."


Stanley said he searched the web using the mineral's chemical
formula -- sodium lithium boron silicate hydroxide -- and was
"amazed" to discover the same scientific name used in the film.


"The new mineral does not contain fluorine and is white rather
than green, but in all other respects the chemistry matches that
for the rock containing kryptonite," Stanley said.


The mineral was unearthed in Serbia by geologists from the mining
group Rio Tinto, which eventually asked the Natural Museum of
History for help in identifying it because it was unlike anything
previously known to science.


Between 30 and 40 new minerals are discovered each year but
before a mineral can be classified as new, its chemical
properties including its crystalline structure, must be
rigorously tested.


Stanley recruited colleagues at Canada's National Research
Council (NRC) to examine the "kryptonite" using state-of-the-art
X-ray facilities in Ottawa.


Britain's Press Association news agency quoted Yvon Le Page, an
expert at the NRC, as saying it was the "coincidence of a
lifetime" to find a mineral with an exact chemical match for
fictional kryptonite.


Jadarite will be formally described in the European Journal of
Mineralogy later this year.


In the Superman comics green kryptonite comes from his home
planet of Krpton and is extremely harmful to the otherwise
invulnerable near-superhero.

