

Visiting Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas said Tuesday that the
armed wing of the militant movement Hamas' five-month-old truce
with Israel had not come to a definitive end.


Hamas said Tuesday that it had ended the fragile truce, firing
dozens of rockets into Israel, which was celebrating the 59th
anniversary of the creation of the Jewish state.


The attack was in response to Israeli raids that killed nine
Palestinians at the weekend, it said.


But Abbas, speaking at a joint news conference with Italian Prime
Minister Romano Prodi, said: "Today's rupture was an exceptional
event that won't last."


Abbas was echoing a spokesman who said the Palestinian government
comprising Hamas and the moderate Fatah movement was standing by
the truce for now.


Hamas called the truce on November 26 because "you can't
negotiate under the noise of bombs," Abbas said at the press
conference.


"We have no other choice that that of peace," he said, adding:
"When an incident happens we have to work so that it isn't
repeated."


Prodi, for his part, also said the Hamas rocket attack was "an
isolated episode," adding, however, "I won't hide my concern."


Abbas also said Israeli soldier Gilad Shalit, who was abducted
last June by militants from three groups including Hamas, is
"alive and in good health according to our information."


Earlier Tuesday, Foreign Minister Massimo D'Alema voiced
"concern" over the Hamas declaration calling off the truce.


Abbas arrived Monday in Rome as part of a European tour aimed at
persuading the European Union to back his unity government and
resume aid to the Palestinian Authority, suspended after Hamas
militants came to power in March 2006.


The Palestinian leader had talks with Italian President Giorgio
Napolitano as well as D'Alema, and was to meet later Tuesday with
Prime Minister Romano Prodi.


Abbas also had an audience at the Vatican with Pope Benedict XVI.

