

Italy's top appeal court on Tuesday upheld the release of a Red
Brigade leader jailed for life for her role in the 1978 murder of
former Italian prime minister Aldo Moro, Ansa news agency
reported.


The Court of Cassation rejected an appeal by Rome prosecutors
against last December's release on parole of Barbara Balzerani
after 21 years behind bars.


Moro, a five-time prime minister, was head of the Christian
Democrats when commandos of the left-wing military Red Brigades
kidnapped him on March 16, 1978. He was killed on May 9, and his
body found in a car the same day.


The prosecutors had demanded Balzerani be returned to jail,
saying the woman -- who was also serving another two life
sentences for separate Red Brigade operations -- had never
repented her violent past.


Balzerani, one of the few female leaders of the militant group,
was arrested in 1985 and sentenced to life imprisonment for her
role in Moro's kidnapping, in which five police guards were also
killed.


Code-named Sara, she also took part in the kidnapping in December
1981 of US General James Lee Dozier, a top United Nations
official, in Verona. He was freed by special Italian forces after
42 days in captivity.


Balzerani has written two books in recent years. Since 1995, she
had enjoyed partial freedom, working in a computer firm in the
day and only returning to her cell at night.


The Court of Cassation's ruling was made public after a delay of
30 days.

