

Britain's Royal Navy is to resume boarding operations in the
northern Gulf that were suspended following the capture of 15
personnel by Iranian forces, Defence Secretary Des Browne
announced Tuesday.


The Royal Navy has a United Nations mandate to patrol Iraqi
territorial waters to protect the strife-torn country's ports and
oil installations.


"Pending the results of the inquiries set up to identify any
lessons we can learn from this incident, we have taken measures,
in line with the findings of the initial reviews of procedures,
to ensure the risk to boarding operations is minimised," Browne
said in a written statement to parliament's lower House of
Commons.


"This will involve an incremental return to full boarding
operations in all areas."


Anti-smuggling operations were regularly carried out before the
capture but were confirmed on April 6 as having been suspended.


Fifteen Royal Navy and Royal Marines personnel were seized at
gunpoint by Iranian Revolutionary Guards after boarding a
merchant vessel on March 23. They were held for 13 days and
returned home on April 5.


Britain insists they were well within Iraqi waters when captured,
which Iran disputes.


The sailors were given permission to sell their stories to the
media, an unpopular decision which Browne has since apologised
for amid a fierce political storm.


Liam Fox, defence spokesman for the main opposition
Conservatives, welcomed the news.


However, he said the cessation of boarding parties "sent out
completely the wrong message and smacked of a lack of resolve" on
Britain's part.


"Protecting Iraq's oil infrastructure and the searching of
merchant vessels to stem the smuggling of illegal weapons into
Iraq has to be one of our key priorities."

