

Hundreds of Filippino workers stranded in Saudi Arabia and
Lebanon after fleeing abusive employers are to be repatriated by
the Philippine government, labour officials said Tuesday.


President Gloria Arroyo greeted 108 Filipinos who had returned
from Saudi Arabia and 16 from Lebanon on Tuesday when they landed
at Manila airport.


More than 300 Filipino workers in the two countries have sought
help from their embassies after leaving their employers for such
things as "unpaid salaries, abuses, maltreatment, sexual
harassments and rapes, reasons of health," said Labour Secretary
Arturo Brion.


The workers had fled their employers and taken refuge in special
"resource centres" in the Philippine embassy in those countries,
Brion said.


He stressed that repatriation was not an unusual procedure as
more than a thousand Filipino workers had been sent home in
similar circumstances since Arroyo visited Saudi Arabia in 2006
and set up the system for them to return home.


Brion said these workers, most of them household helpers, were
only a fraction of the more than one million Filipinos working in
the Middle East and that such abuses arose because untrained
Filipinos were being deployed abroad.


The department would seek to have more cultural and language
orientation provided to workers before they were deployed to the
Middle East to avoid such problems, he added.


More than eight million Filipinos work abroad and the money they
send home is a crucial pillar to supporting this impoverished
country's economy.


Last year, they remitted 12.8 billion dollars through legal
channels to the Philippines.

