

US stocks ended mixed Tuesday as positive earnings news helped
offset weak reports on the housing market and consumer
confidence, with the key blue-chip index flirting anew with the
13,000 level.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 34.54 points (0.27 percent)
to close at 12,953.54 after hitting an all-time intraday high of
12,989.86.


The Nasdaq composite eked out a gain of 0.87 points (0.03
percent) to 2,524.54 while the broad-market Standard and Poor's
500 index lost 0.51 points (0.03 percent) to 1,480.42.


The market opened on an upbeat note after "several strong
earnings reports -- particularly Texas Instruments," according to
Al Goldman, market strategist at AG Edwards.


But the market wobbled after news that existing home sales fell a
sharper-than- expected 8.4 percent, the sharpest drop in 18
years, and that US consumer confidence fell to its lowest levels
in a year.


The news stoked fears of an ongoing slump in the real estate
market that will cut into consumer spending, which accounts for
two-thirds of economic activity.


The data suggested "that the subpar growth we have been
experiencing over the past year is not likely to go away
quickly," said Joel Naroff at Naroff Economic Advisors.


The recovery in stocks was helped by a drop in oil prices after a
report showed shipments from Nigeria had not been affected by the
electoral violence in the African country.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in June, closed down 1.31 dollars at 64.58 dollars per
barrel.


Blue chips were helped by IBM, after the computer giant announced
"some shareholder-friendly initiatives today that have given its
stock a healthy boost" and also "provided a measure of support
for the broader market," according to Christine Marie Nielsen at
Briefing.com.


IBM, which boosted its dividend by 33 percent and authorized an
additional 15 billion dollars for stock repurchases. rallied 3.28
dollars to 98.49.


Also lifting the market was Texas Instruments, up 2.51 or nearly
eight percent to 34.92 after the semiconductor group reported
strong earnings and raised its outlook.


Whirlpool shares surged 12.50 dollars or 14 percent to 102.85
after the appliance manufacturing company beat the consensus
forecast for its profits by a a wide margin.


Boeing meanwhile edged up three cents to 93.67 after announcing
that Virgin Atlantic had confirmed the purchase of at least 15
Boeing 767 Dreamliners, in an order previously listed as an
unidentified customer.


Amazon.com lost two cents to 44.75 ahead of its its earnings
report. After the bell, its shares surged as the e-commerce
leader reported profits jumped 115 percent to 111 million dollars
in the first quarter.


Bonds firmed on the weak economic news and on rising expectations
for a cut in Federal Reserve interest rates.


The yield on the 10-year US Treasury bond dropped to 4.622
percent from 4.650 percent Monday and that on the 30-year bond
eased to 4.804 percent against 4.828 percent. Bond yields and
prices move in opposite directions.

