

The Boeing Company said Tuesday it received an order for 15 of
its future 787 Dreamliner aircraft from Virgin Atlantic, the
biggest such order to date for a European carrier.


The order worth some 2.8 billion dollars at list prices was
previously listed on Boeing's records as from an unidentified
customer.


The order also includes options for an additional eight 787s and
purchase rights for an additional 20 of the aircraft, for a total
bill of up to 8 billion.


The airline hopes to start taking delivery of the planes
beginning in 2011 and will capitalize on their long-range
capability by offering direct flights from the United Kingdom to
Perth, Australia and Hawaii.


"Virgin Atlantic is pleased to introduce the Boeing 787
Dreamliner as our aircraft of the future," said Steve Ridgway,
chief executive officer of Virgin Atlantic, in a joint statement
with Boeing.


"This revolutionary aircraft will bring a step change to the
industry, substantially reducing environmental impact and
incorporating innovative design and advanced technology, while
providing an enhanced flying experience for our passengers," he
said.


Virgin executives said the environmentally-friendly aspects of
the Boeing plane, which is 27 percent more fuel efficient than
the comparable Airbus A340-300 jet, played a big factor in their
decision to go with the US manufacturer.


They also cited the fact that the planes would be available
before the Airbus A350-XWB, the Airbus offering that Virgin could
have selected.


This latest announcement brings the number of orders for Boeing's
Dreamliner to 544. The first plane is expected to begin test
flights in July this year, with the first customer slated to take
delivery of the jet in mid 2008, Boeing officials said at a press
conference here Tuesday.

