

The Italian government on Tuesday adopted a draft bill under
which the perpetrators of "environmental catastrophes" would be
punishable by up to 10 years in prison.


The bill, which must be passed by parliament, "anticipates" a
planned European Union directive on environmental crimes and puts
Italy in line with "the largest European countries," a government
statement said.


Polluters would be jailed for between one and five years and pay
fines ranging from 5,000 to 30,000 euros (6,800 to 41,000
dollars), it said.


Those convicted of causing "environmental damage" face between
two and six years in prison and fines of between 20,000 and
60,000 euros, or more if human lives or health are threatened.


"Environmental catastrophes" will be punishable by between three
and 10 years in jail and fines of between 30,000 and 250,000
euros, and "alterations of natural heritage, flora and fauna" by
one-to-three-year jail terms and fines of between 2,000 and
20,000 euros.


Illegal dumping, a frequent crime in the southern Naples area,
will carry a prison term of between one and five years and a fine
of between 10,000 and 30,000 euros, rising to between two and six
years in jail and 20,000 to 50,000 euros when it involves
dangerous waste.


The bill also covers trafficking in or dumping radioactive
material, environmental fraud and damage to environmental
resources.


Several EU states including Belgium, the Czech Republic and
Denmark already have strict laws on environmental crimes.


The European Commission is drafting legislation that would enable
European arrest warrants for environmental crimes.

