

The commander of US forces in the Middle East defended a Belfast-
style wall under construction around a Sunni enclave of mainly
Shiite east Baghdad Tuesday, saying it was a barrier designed to
protect residents.


"I would choose the term barrier," Admiral William J. Fallon, the
head of US Central Command, told reporters in the United Arab
Emirates.


"These (barriers) are not walling off neighbourhoods. The
majority of these things are to try to restrict entry into areas
(where) we have had large amounts of sectarian killings.


"These are intended to be barriers against suicide bombers to
safeguard people... That's the only reason they are there."


Since April 10, US paratroopers have been deploying at night
around the Baghdad Sunni district of Adhamiyah to erect the five-
kilometre (three-mile) wall made of six-tonne (14,000-pound)
concrete sections.


The wall has drawn a storm of protest from Iraqi politicans, who
accuse the US military of hardening sectarian divisions, and
Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki said on a visit to Egypt Sunday
that he had ordered construction halted.


But Fallon insisted that such barriers were only intended to be
temporary.


"We'd ideally like to have them for a short term," he said.


Despite his insistence on calling the structure a barrier rather
than a wall, Fallon rejected parallels with the controversial
"separation barrier" that Israel has been building the length of
the occupied West Bank and which Palestinians refer to as the
"apartheid wall".


"I think this is an exaggeration," the US commander said.


"These comparisons are typical exaggerations: let's go and find
something wrong and complain about. I would love to see the day
when there are no barriers."


In the Northern Ireland capital of Belfast, iron, brick and steel
barriers dubbed "peace lines" still divide some Catholic and
Protestant neighborhoods despite intensifying moves towards
peace.

