

Denmark, a world leader in environmental policy, on Tuesday urged
European and Asian countries to accelerate the development,
deployment and transfer of clean technologies to reduce climate
change.


"It is possible to have economic growth and a sustainable social
development while at the same time making substantial cuts in
global emissions," Environment Minister Connie Hedegaard said at
the opening of the third Asia Europe Meeting (ASEM) of
environment ministers in Copenhagen.


"In Denmark, we have experienced a 70 percent increase in
economic performance over the last 25 years without increasing
energy consumption," Hedegaard said.


"Today 15 percent of Danish energy consumption is generated by
renewable energy sources -- in particular wind and biomass. The
goal for 2025 is 30 percent," the minister added.


The International Energy Agency (IEA) estimates that world energy
consumption may increase at least 60 percent by 2030 and that the
share of fossil fuels will constitute 82 percent of the rapidly
increasing energy consumption.


"This is a scenario that we simply cannot allow to come through,"
Hedegaard said.


The ASEM meeting, which ends Thursday, brings together 38 EU and
Asian ministers and their delegations to discuss climate warming,
sustainable energy, threats to biodiversity and deforestation.


No decisions were expected at the meeting, held ahead of the
launch of UN negotiations at a climate change conference in Bali
in December where the aim is to ensure a continuation of the
Kyoto Protocol.


The Kyoto Protocol is due to expire in 2012.

