

Hundreds of US and Bahraini military and health personnel
conducted an emergency response exercise in Bahrain Tuesday, the
largest such combined drill in the Gulf state, a US spokesman
said.


The exercise, which lasted several hours, was described as very
successful by the commanders of the participating units, the
spokesman for the US Navy's Fifth Fleet, which is based in
Bahrain, told AFP.


"The coordination between the units was good and the performance
was good," he said, adding that the drill had been planned for
six months and was not linked to Iran's standoff with the West
over Tehran's nuclear programme.


"No. I know there is this kind of speculation. This is not the
first exercise of its kind. We've been doing this exercise with
the Bahrainis for six years," the spokesman said when asked if
the drill were related to preparations for a possible war with
Iran.


A Fifth Fleet statement earlier Tuesday said more than 800 US
service members and Department of Defence personnel, along with
hundreds of people from the Bahraini interior, health and defence
ministries, would take part in "Exercise Desert Sailor 07."


The exercise was designed to bring US and Bahraini "response
elements together to function as a single crisis management team
that will work together to solve any potential issues brought
about through a mass casualty scenario," the statement quoted a
US spokesman as saying.


Senior Bahraini interior ministry official Mohammed bin Daynah
also told AFP that similar joint exercises had been taking place
for the last six years, but Tuesday's was the largest of its
kind.

