

New Zealand were 138-7 after 30 overs of their World Cup semi-
final against Sri Lanka at Sabina Park here on Tuesday chasing
290 to win.


The winners will face either Australia or South Africa in
Saturday's final.


Craig McMillan, batting with a runner, was on 19 with James
Franklin on five.


Captain Stephen Fleming was first man out lbw to Lasith Malinga
in the second over for one with the total on two.


Ross Taylor never settled and was lbw to Chaminda Vaas for nine
to make the total 32-2 in the 10th over.


Peter Fulton and Scott Styris then put on 73 for the third wicket
as New Zealand steadily fought back before they collapsed in
spectacular style as they went from 105-2 to 116-7 inside four
overs.


Three of the wickets went to Muttiah Muralitharan who picked up
Jacob Oram, Brendon McCullum and Daniel Vettori.


The slide had been started by Tillakaratne Dilshan who had
Stryris caught by Sri Lanka captain Mahela Jayawardene for 37
while Chaminda Silva caught Fulton off Sanath Jayasuriya for a
patient 46.


Earlier, Jayawardene's 115 not out was the centrepiece of his
team's imposing total of 289 for five.


Jayawardene, who won the toss and chose to bat, faced 109 balls
and smashed three sixes and 10 fours.


Opener Upul Tharanga struck a tournament best 73 to make sure Sri
Lanka recovered well after Jayasuriya fell early on for one.


Together with Dilshan, Jayawardene put on 81 for the fifth wicket
before a rapid unbroken stand of 56 with Russel Arnold (14 not
out).


Crucially, Sri Lanka lost just one wicket to spearhead quick
Shane Bond who was returning after missing Friday's 215-run
thrashing by Australia with a stomach illness.


The fast bowler's 10 overs cost 59 runs.


Tuesday's semi-final was a repeat of the April 12 Super Eights
match in Grenada, which Sri Lanka won by six wickets.

