

The new US ambassador to the United Nations, Zalmay Khalilzad,
confirmed Tuesday that Washington wants to involve the world body
in Iraq, in light of the high stakes for Iraq and the region.


"The UN can do a lot, a lot is at stake in Iraq," he said.


"What happens in Iraq is certainly important for the Iraqis, but
it's also important for the future of the region. And the future
of the region, of the broader Middle East, in my judgment, is the
defining challenge of our time," Khalilzad said in his first
meeting with reporters since assuming his post on Monday.


US President George W. Bush named Khalilzad to the UN post after
a stint as US ambassador to Baghdad.


"The president told me that my mission was to work with (UN
Secretary General Ban Ki-moon) and with the other representatives
here to achieve particular goals and my priorities will be to
increase UN engagement to improve the situation in Iraq, as well
as some other regional conflicts," he said.


"The UN is playing an important role," he said, pointing to an
international program to hasten reconstruction and development in
Iraq backed by Ban, who is to launch it with Iraqi Prime Minister
Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki May 3-4 in Sharm el-Sheikh, Egypt.


Ministers of the five permanent members of the UN Security
Council will join them at the Egyptian Red Sea resort city,
alongside representatives of the Group of Eight and of Iraq's
neighbors to search for an end to the bloodshed in Iraq.


"The UN is doing important things for Iraq and I believe there is
room to do more and I'll be discussing that," said Khalilzad.


The world body cut back its presence in Iraq after a truck-bomb
exploded in 2003 killing 22 persons at its headquarters,
including then-secretary general Kofi Annan's special
representative, Sergio Vieira de Mello.

