

George Michael's preparations to give the first giant concert at
London's new Wembley Stadium were drastically altered Tuesday
when he was ordered to appear in court the day before.


Part of the British singer's trial will take place on June 8 --
the day before his gig at the 90,000-seater Wembley.


The 43-year-old former Wham! frontman faces a charge of driving
while unfit through drugs and an allegation of being in charge of
a vehicle while unfit through drugs.


At Tuesday's preliminary hearing at Brent Magistrates' Court in
northwest London, district judge Katherine Marshall rejected an
application for the musician to be allowed to skip the trial.


The singer starts a British and European stadium tour in May.
Wembley Stadium is about three miles (4.8 kilometres) from the
court.


Marshall said she wanted him in court for the start on May 8 and
would be willing to bail him to reappear on the final day if he
did not wish to attend the full trial.


"He is around in the area because I believe he is appearing at
Wembley Stadium. I do not think he will have any difficulty in
being here on June 8," Marshall said.


In the early hours of October 1 last year, London motorists
called the emergency services after finding Michael slumped in
his Mercedes car, which was blocking a junction.


He was arrested on suspicion of being unfit to drive and for
possession of what was thought to be cannabis. He was taken to
hospital before being cautioned for carrying the drug.


He was also caught slumped at the wheel of his car in February
2006.


The singer rose to fame as one half of Wham! in the 1980s. His
1998 arrest for lewd conduct in a public toilet in California
forced his homosexuality into the public domain.


Michael has sold more than 85 million records worldwide, notching
up several hit singles in Britain and the United States,
including "Careless Whisper" and "Faith".

