

Britain's Olympic champion Chris Hoy won the gold medal in the
kilometre on the final day of the world track cycling
championships here Sunday.


Frenchman Francois Pervis finished nearly a second adrift to take
the silver medal with another Britain, Jamie Staff, taking the
bronze.


It is Hoy's fourth world title in the four-lap event, in which he
will attempt to beat Frenchman Arnaud Tournant's world record of
58.875sec at altitude in Bolivia on May 12.


Hoy, 30, now has two golds and a silver from these world
championships having won the men's keirin on Saturday and a
silver in the team sprint after finishing behind defending
champions France on Friday.


Former sprint and keirin specialist Staff stunned the kilo
specialists when he started second from the field of 20 riders to
set a fast time of 1:02.074.


His mark stood until pre-race gold medal contender Pervis hit
full power in the second half of his effort to grab provisional
top spot.


With Staff assured of the bronze, Hoy went out to make sure he
would be going for his world record attempt wearing the world
champion's rainbow jersey.


The Scot's face reflected the agony of hitting the big gear from
the outset, but that allowed him to lead Pervis at every stage of
the race.


From leading by 0.113secs after the first 125 metres Hoy pushed
his advantage to 0.331 by the 750 metre mark.


He eventually finished in a time of 1:00.999, just over two
tenths of a second slower than the world sea level record of
1:00.711 he set during his triumphant Olympic final at Athens in
2004.


Pervis finished in 1:01.838.

