

Taiwan's President Chen Shui-bian said Sunday the island's
citizens wanted the right to determine their own future, in
comments likely to further raise the ire of Beijing.


"What we've been after is the right to determine the future by
ourselves, of the 23 million people here," Chen said at a meeting
of officials from the ruling Democratic Progressive Party (DPP).


The DPP insists that the island's future should be determined
through a referendum while the opposition Kuomintang (KMT)
favours improved ties with Beijing and an eventual reunification
with the mainland.


Chen said the "great China identity" was preventing Taiwan from
becoming a "normal and complete country".


"The great China identity has ... relegated Taiwan into a local
government."


Taiwan and China split in 1949 at the end of a civil war after
communist forces led by Mao Zedong defeated KMT troops who fled
to the island.


Beijing regards Taiwan as part of its territory awaiting
reunification, by force if necessary, despite having separate
governments since that war ended.


Chen appeared to toughen his stance against Taiwan's status last
month when he pledged in a speech to push for independence and a
new constitution.


Chen had pledged in his inaugural speech in 2000 that he would
not declare independence nor change Taiwan's name or seek a
referendum on independence.


Last month's controversial remarks drew criticism from the United
States, wary of the risk of being dragged into a conflict with
China.


Chen ended the 51-year grip on power by the KMT when he was
elected the president in 2000. He was re-elected in 2004.

