

US warplanes have violated Iranian airspace in the southwestern
oil province of Khuzestan, the Arabic language channel of Iranian
state television quoted a local military chief as saying on
Sunday.


However, a US military spokesman said he had checked into reports
of an airspace violation and denied that any took place.


"Two US aircraft trespassed into Iranian airspace northwest of
(the port city of) Abadan before flying southwest into Iraq," a
Revolutionary Guards commander in Abadan identified only as
Colonel Aqili was quoted as saying by the Al-Alam channel's
website.


"The planes left white vapour trails, attracting the local
people's attention," he said, without elaborating on when the
alleged incursion took place.


The incident happened close to Iran's border with Iraq, where the
US and British military are deployed in force, he said.


A US military spokesman told AFP that he had investigated the
Iranian military's claim and found no evidence to support it.


"There is nothing that we saw that would indicate that that
happened," he told AFP.


The United States is in a mounting diplomatic confrontation with
Iran over its efforts to master the nuclear fuel cycle and
Western suspicions that Tehran is bent on developing nuclear
weapons, a charge vehemently denied by Iran.


Washington says it wants a diplomatic solution to the nuclear
standoff but has never ruled out military action.


Tensions have spiked since Iran's seizure on March 23 of 15
British marines and sailors for allegedly entering Iranian
waters.


Iran says the Britons entered its waters illegally while London
insists they were in Iraqi waters on an anti-smuggling patrol
under UN mandate.

