

Democratic front-runner Hillary Clinton piled up a record-
breaking 26 million dollars in campaign cash in the first quarter
of the year, in a huge coup for her White House bid, aides said
Sunday.


Clinton also transferred a further 10 million dollars left over
from her successful 2006 Senate re-election campaign to her
presidential account, her campaign manager Patti Solis Doyle told
reporters in a conference call.


"I am proud to say we have dramatically exceeded our goals and
expectations," Doyle said.


The New York Democrat's first-quarter haul, made public after the
passing of the first-quarter deadline Saturday night, was more
than three times the pace- setting total of 7.4 million dollars
raised by Democratic candidate John Edwards in the first quarter
of 2003, ahead of the 2004 presidential race.


It was also not far short of the 30.9 million dollars raised by
all Democratic and Republican candidates in the corresponding
period of 2003, according to figures by the nonpartisan Campaign
Finance Institute.


The most money ever raised in the first quarter of a presidential
race is 13.5 million by former Republican senator Phil Gramm, who
made 13.5 million dollars in 1995, but quickly faded from the
1996 race.


The first-quarter campaign finance deadline is a closely watched
barometer of the presidential race, and Clinton's fundraising
totals will be compared with chief rivals including Senator
Barack Obama and John Edwards, who have yet to reveal their
totals.

