

Ice-skating comedy "Blades of Glory" glided to the top at the
North American box-office this weekend, debuting with 33 million
dollars in ticket sales, industry estimates showed Sunday.


The movie features actor-comedians Will Ferrell and Jon Heder as
a pair of male skaters who find a way to perform in couples'
competition. Cameos included skaters Dorothy Hamill, Brian
Boitano, Peggy Fleming, Scott Hamilton and Nancy Kerrigan.


"Meet the Robinsons," a Disney computer-animated feature about a
child orphan inventor and his saga to save the future, debuted in
second place at 25 million dollars in North American theaters,
according to figures from box-office tracker Exhibitor Relations.


The Greek-Persian battle epic "300" fell to third place with 11
million dollars. The movie angered Iranian authorities who say it
portrays their ancestors as savages, but has taken in nearly 180
million dollars since it opened four weeks ago.


"TMNT," the cartoon comeback of 1980s heroes the Teenage Mutant
Ninja Turtles, slid to fourth place with nine million after
seizing the number-one spot last week.


The comedy "Wild Hogs," which portrays the bumbling motorcycle
road trip of a handful of middle-age suburbanites, took fifth
place with 8.3 million, while the sniper thriller "Shooter" took
sixth with 8.0 million.


Rounding out the top 12 were the Sandra Bullock thriller
"Premonition" with 5.1 million, the futuristic save-the-planet
feature "The Last Mimzy" with 4.0 million, the horror sequel to
last year's remake of the Wes Craven original "The Hills Have
Eyes 2," which snatched 3.9 million and the September 11 recovery
story starring Adam Sandler "Reign Over Me" with 3.7 million.


Crime story "The Lookout" debuted at 11th place with 2.0 million,
and the Indian-American story of love and cultures clashing "The
Namesake" took 12th with 1.5 million.


The top 12 films pulled in an estimated 115 million over the
weekend, a decrease of five percent compared to a year earlier.

