

Sri Lankan supersonic jets and helicopter gunships carried out
night-time bombing raids against Tiger rebels as sporadic ground
attacks continued in the bitter conflict, the military said
Sunday.


Fighter aircraft hit a "Sea Tiger" base in the Mullaitivu region
on Saturday while another was bombed under cover of darkness on
Sunday, the military said in a statement.


Ukranian-built Mi-24 helicopter gunships attacked a suspected
Tamil Tiger mortar bomb position near the de facto border
separating the two forces in the northern district of Vavuniya
early Sunday, the statement said.


The strikes came a week after the Tamil Tiger rebels staged a
daring raid on the island's main military airbase using two light
aircraft and managed to escape unchallenged.


There was no immediate word from the Tamil Tigers, but a pro-
rebel website, the Tamilnet, said three trucks transporting
essential food inside rebel-held territory had been hit by the
aerial attacks.


There were no immediate reports of casualties. The Tigers in a
statement earlier Sunday claimed the air force had dropped bombs
near a school earlier in the week.


The latest military air strikes followed two separate roadside
bombs attacks that killed a police commando and wounded five
others Saturday, the military said.


Military officials said the guerrillas and troops exchanged fire
across the northern and eastern regions at the weekend.


The rebels have waged a 35-year campaign for independence that
has claimed more than 60,000 lives.


More than 4,000 people have been killed in the latest upsurge of
fighting that began in December 2005 despite a truce arranged in
2002.

