

About 200 Islamist students rallied outside the British embassy
in Tehran on Sunday throwing rocks and firecrackers in protest at
Britain's alleged violation of Iranian waters, an AFP
correspondent said.


The firecrackers exploded inside the embassy compound which was
heavily guarded by dozens of anti-riot police and scaffolding to
keep the protesters at a distance from the walls. Police
dispersed the crowd after two hours.


Britain's Foreign Office said the demonstration was "under
control" and that there was "no damage to the building and nobody
has been hurt."


The students, who belong to the hardline Basij volunteer militia,
demanded the trial and punishment of 15 British sailors seized by
the Islamic republic for alleged illegal entry into its waters on
March 23.


The students shouted "Death to Britain", "Death to America",
"Death to Israel" and carried placards calling for the "expulsion
of compromising European ambassadors" following EU support for
Britain's position.


The demonstrators urged the Iranian government not to bow to
international pressures to release the captives until Britain
apologises.


One demonstrator warned from a podium that the British embassy
could face a similar fate to that of the US mission in Tehran if
"Britain keeps on speaking nonsense", drawing cheers from the
crowd.


In 1980 Islamist students stormed the US compound taking American
diplomats hostage for 444 days.

