

Afghanistan's President Hamid Karzai in an interview published
Sunday accused Pakistan's intelligence agencies of sheltering
fugitive Taliban leader Mullah Mohammad Omar.


Karzai said Omar, who has been on the run since being toppled by
a US-led coalition some five years ago, is being harbored in the
Pakistani city of Quetta.


"We have solid, clear information indicating that," he told the
New York Times.


"And I'm sorry I cannot be silent about this, as much as our
friends in Pakistan may not like my saying that," he said.


Omar headed the 1996-2001 Taliban regime that sheltered Al-Qaeda.
His government was overthrown in a US-led invasion weeks after
the September 11, 2001 attacks when it failed to hand over Al-
Qaeda leaders wanted for the strikes.


Karzai also blamed Islamabad for a resurgence of violence along
their common border.


"We have almost daily reports of suicide bombers coming from
there," he told the newspaper.


"If we have better cooperation from Pakistan, a great many of
these cross-border crossings would stop."


Pakistan and Afghanistan each have accused the other of allowing
Taliban remnants to flourish within its borders since the group
was overthrown.


The Afghanistan leader also chided the West for having chosen to
battle the Taliban in Afghan villages, instead of preventing
Pakistan from financing and sheltering the fundamentalist group.


"Rather than concentrating on the sources of terror, on the
financiers of terror, on the trainers of terror, (we focused)
rather heavily on going about in Afghan villages, where there was
no terrorism, where there was the result of terrorism, yes but
not the roots of it, not the springboard of it," he said.

