

Pakistanis celebrated the Prophet Mohammed's birthday with mass
rallies on Sunday, as President Pervez Musharraf urged the nation
to shun terrorism and extremism.


Tens of thousands of Muslims took part in colourful parades in
major cities and towns across the mainly Muslim nation of 160
million people, held under tight security amid fears of sectarian
violence.


Streets were decorated with bunting and small models or replicas
of the Prophet Mohammed's tomb and Khana-e-Kaaba (home of Allah)
in Saudi Arabia were put on display.


In the eastern city of Lahore, Muslims carrying white and green
flags and banners praising the prophet marched towards the sufi
shrine of Hazrat Data Ganj Bakhsh.


Two large processions wound their way through the streets of the
central city of Multan, before being joined by more than 100
other smaller processions, all held amid tight security.


More than 6,000 security personnel were deployed in the southern
city of Karachi to ensure peace during the celebrations, home
affairs advisor Wasim Akhtar told a press conference late
Saturday.


A suicide attack in Karachi last year on Sunni Muslims gathered
to celebrate the birth of the prophet killed 57 people including
several religious leaders.


Musharraf, addressing a national conference in Islamabad, urged
Pakistanis to shun extremism and follow the Islamic teachings of
tolerance and peace.


"Islam teaches us the lesson of tolerance, brotherhood, endurance
and fortitude to live with harmony," Musharraf said.


He said some groups who were against moderate Islam had hijacked
the religion and misguided some Muslims in order to create
unrest.


"We need to broaden thinking, acceptance and tolerance to have a
better understanding of things," Musharraf said.


The Prophet Mohammed was born in present-day Saudi Arabia around
571 AD on the 12th day of the Rabi-ul-Awal month of the Islamic
calendar. Islam began in Arabia and was revealed to humanity by
the Prophet Mohammed.

