

Former Test fast bowler Michael Holding called on Sunday for
Brian Lara to step down as West Indies captain as the host's
World Cup campaign continued to unravel.


Holding believes that the West Indies, who are in danger of
failing to reach the semi-finals after losing both of their
opening Super Eights matches, will only enjoy a renaissance in
their fortunes if the record-breaking Lara quits.


"Lara has to step aside, not necessarily as a player, but as
captain," said Holding.


"He needs to co-operate with the new captain and allow him to
have a free hand to take the West Indies forward."


Lara is in his third spell as captain but his leadership came
under fire when strike bowler Jerome Taylor was dropped from the
team for the tame defeat against New Zealand and replaced by an
extra batsman, Lendl Simmons.


After the match in Antigua Lara became involved in an ugly public
slanging match with selector Andy Roberts over the make-up of the
team with Lara insisting he can only work with the 15-man squd he
was given.


"Where was he when the selection meeting took place?" asked a
bemused Holding.


"If he can explain that, then he can talk."


Holding, who was part of the World Cup squad in 1979 when the
West Indies last won the title, added that the team has not
improved under Lara's stewardship.


"Lara appears bigger than the game. He has got whatever he has
wanted," said Holding.


"We haven't seen an improvement when he has taken over the
captaincy. Everyone knows he's a great batsman but that's not
what it takes to lead a team. I can't even say he is a good
captain tactically."

