

Indian Kashmir's chief minister Sunday voiced opposition to any
move to cut troop levels in the Himalayan state, saying it would
"directly help" Islamic militants.


"Chief Minister Ghulam Nabi Azad strongly ruling out any
demilitarization or reduction of security forces in the state has
erased all false impressions created by vested interests for
political mileage," an official statement said.


The statement came two days after India set up a panel to review
a possible cut in troop levels in insurgency-racked Kashmir.


The announcement on Friday came after demands by a regional ally
of the federal ruling Congress party, which also governs Kashmir,
to reduce troop numbers in the state.


Azad in the statement "said his refusal for any demilitarization
and reduction in security forces was based on ground realities
and was appreciated by Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and other
senior leaders as well."


The chief minister added that he wants troop withdrawals to start
only after 17 -year-old insurgency ends.


Mufti Mohammed Sayeed's People's Democratic Party has threatened
to withdraw support for the state government in Kashmir if New
Delhi rejects its demands for troop cuts. But he has not set any
deadline and welcomed the panel.


India has deployed an estimated half a million troops and
paramilitary soldiers in Kashmir, the cause of two of the three
wars between India and Pakistan since their 1947 independence
from the British.


Pakistan and separatists have linked the region's
demilitarisation to lasting peace between the South Asian rivals.


In the latest violence Sunday, a soldier was killed in the
state's southeast in a battle that also left two rebels dead, a
defence spokesman said. Such shoot- outs are common in the
region.

