

UN nuclear watchdog chief Mohamed ElBaradei is to visit Amman
this month for talks with officials on Jordan's aim to obtain
nuclear energy for peaceful use, the foreign ministry said on
Sunday.


ElBaradei, who heads the Vienna-based International Atomic Energy
Agency (IAEA), is due to begin a three-day visit to Jordan on
April 14, a spokeswoman told AFP.


His talks in Amman will focus on "Jordan's desire to obtain
nuclear technology for peaceful means" and he will also tour some
projects financed by the IAEA, the spokeswoman added.


Jordan's King Abdullah II has said his country wants to develop
nuclear power for peaceful means.


"Our countries are in dire need of atomic energy for peaceful
purposes, to enable us to build societies and update and
modernise our fields of science, industry, agriculture and
health," he told last week's Arab summit in Riyadh.


"We call for the establishment of an Arab centre for the peaceful
use of atomic energy," King Abdullah said in a written speech to
the March 28-29 summit in the Saudi capital.


He made similar remarks in January in a Israeli newspaper
interview.


"The Egyptians are looking for a nuclear programme. The GCC (Gulf
Cooperation Council) are looking at one, and we are actually
looking at nuclear power for peaceful and energy purposes," he
told Haaretz daily.


"We've been discussing it with the West," he said.


In his speech to the Arab summit, the king said: "We will
continue to demand that Israel become a signatory to the nuclear
Non-Proliferation Treaty and that its atomic reactors be
subjected to international inspection."


Israel is considered the sole, albeit undeclared, nuclear power
in the region.

