

Dubai World Cup flop Discreet Cat will be returning to his
favoured distance of a mile, his trainer Saeed bin Suroor
revealed.


The second favourite for the world's richest race was never a
factor and trailed in last under Frankie Dettori behind the
impressive winner Invasor.


The Godolphin Operation's pre-race fears over his ability to stay
the extra distance proved well founded and Suroor admitted that
he would not be repeating the experience.


"It doesn't look like Discreet Cat stays the distance and we will
drop him back to a mile," said Suroor, whose charge had been the
only horse to inflict a defeat on Invasor in last year's UAE
Derby.


"It was a disappointing performance and we will see how the horse
comes out of the race before making firm plans."


Dettori, who won one race on the night but on American horse
Kellys Landing, was left non-plussed by Discreet Cat's
performance.


"I am very disappointed. I don't know what to say, I don't know
if he didn't stay or if there was some other reason," said the
Italian, who has won three World Cups.


"He was beaten a long way and I can't tell you why." Godolphin's
urbane racing manager Simon Crisford was also left bemused how
tamely Discreet Cat had fared as he sought to extend his unbeaten
run to seven.


"Discreet Cat has run way below form - I don't know why," said
Crisford. "He was never going a yard - it was a big surprise to
us but that's racing."


Crisford, though, insisted that this would be just a temporary
blip on the radar.


"We will give him some time out now and then get him back to
America," said Crisford. "It was very disappointing but all the
good champions get beaten at some point and he will be back."

