

Moscow's support in helping Belgrade scuttle a controversial UN
plan to grant supervised independence for its province of Kosovo
had "historic importance", Serbia's prime minister said Sunday.


"All our people know and feel deeply that Russia's support has a
historic importance," Vojislav Kostunica told the Beta news
agency.


"The principled support of Russia at the UN Security Council
ensures that Serbia will be able to protect its territorial
integrity," he added.


Kostunica was speaking before leaving for New York ahead of
Tuesday's crucial UN Security Council meeting on the Kosovo
question.


UN chief mediator Martti Ahtisaari is to brief the 15-member body
on his recommendations for the Albanian-majority breakaway
province.


His report, made public last week, argues for a form of
supervised independence under the wing of the international
community, a proposal that has already been roundly denounced by
both Serbia and Russia.


"The rejection of the Ahtisaari plan will allow for the opening
of a new cycle of talks, with a new international mediator, which
will lead to a solution in keeping with the UN charter," said
Kostunica.


Russia wields the power of veto on the Security Council, and
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said Thursday that UN
envoy Martti Ahtisaari would fail if he pursued his current plan
for the province.


Kosovo has been administered by a UN mission since mid-1999,
after a NATO bombing campaign ended the brutal crackdown by
Serbian forces against the province's ethnic-Albanian majority.


Some 10,000 ethnic Albanians died and hundreds of thousands fled
Kosovo during the 1998-1999 conflict.

