

World champion Sebastien Loeb claimed the Rally of Portugal on
Sunday as race organisers were fined 50,000 dollars by the
sport's world governing body, the FIA.


Citroen driver Loeb dominated the weekend racing to finish 37
seconds clear of championship leader Marcus Gronholm of Finland
with another Finn Mikko Hirvonen in third.


But in a statement Sunday the FIA denounced as "inexcusable" the
lack of security measures which resulted in five people being
injured in practice Thursday when Portuguese driver Armindo
Araujo's Mitsubishi Lancer left the track.


It is the first time since 2001 that the Rally of Portugal has
been included in the World Rally Championship calendar, and next
year's race is already in doubt.


Frenchman Loeb achieved his second rally victory in a row
following his triumph in Mexico last month. He has won three of
the five rallies this season.


"I won the rally on Saturday when we twice came up with the right
tyre choice," he reflected.


"That helped me take a slender advantage over Marcus (Gronholm)
and then when he made a mistake I extended my lead."


The triple world champion took over the lead from former double
world champion Gronholm on Friday night following the seventh
special stage. And he never looked back, winning 11 of the 18
stages.


Loeb is now just two points behind Ford Focus driver Gronholm in
the world championship standings.


Gronholm said: "It was a good weekend, but not perfect. On the
positive side I'm still leading the championship but I really
wanted to win here."


The world rally championship now takes a month-long break before
resuming in Argentina on May 4.

