

Israel's attorney general said on Sunday that he intended to
indict president Moshe Katsav, who is currently on leave of
absence, on a second rape charge.


The decision was taken after Katsav was questioned for three
hours by police last week over a new complaint filed by a former
employee of the tourism ministry he once headed, Menahem Mazuz's
office said in a statement.


The 61-year-old Katsav took a leave of absence from his largely
ceremonial post in late January after the attorney general said
he intended to indict him on a range of charges, including rape,
sexual harassment, abuse of power, breach of trust and accepting
bribes.


Katsav faces a hearing over the allegations on May 2 in a final
step before the attorney general decides whether to charge him.


Rape in Israel carries a maximum sentence of 16 years in prison.
Although Katsav temporarily suspended himself from duty for three
months in January, he currently retains immunity from
prosecution. His mandate expires in July.


Katsav has insisted he is innocent and rejected intense pressure
from the Israeli public and politicians of all persuasions to
resign.


He faces the prospect of becoming the country's second
consecutive president to be forced from office by scandal, ending
his career in disgrace and perhaps prison.


His predecessor, the late Ezer Weizman, was forced to resign in
2000 after revelations that he received around 450,000 dollars
from French millionaire Edouard Saroussi in the 1980s when
Weizman was an MP and minister.

