

Iran confirmed on Sunday that it was in direct talks with Britain
over 15 British naval personnel captured off Iraq, saying
contacts had never been cut.


"They were never cut and so there was no need to restart them,"
an Iranian official told AFP, speaking under condition of
anonymity.


"And the sign for this is that the two countries' foreign
ministries have been exchanging messages. Iran has never wanted
to close the diplomatic path, unless the British government
creates such conditions."


In an interview from Afghanistan earlier Sunday, British Defence
Secretary Des Browne said: "We are in direct bilateral
communication with the Iranians and they know that not only are
we in a very clear position but that we have the support of
almost all of the international community."


The Iranian official said contacts between the two sides might
have borne fruit more rapidly had it not been for the strongly
critical tone of comments made by British government ministers.


"To show its good faith and despite the fact that the sailors
were arrested in our territorial waters, Iran said that it was
ready to release the only female sailor, but due to the kind of
comments being made by the British government the matter was
postponed," the official said.


Iran had said that it was ready to release woman sailor Faye
Turney but on Thursday the head of Iran's supreme national
security council, Ali Larijani, said she would not be freed
because of Britain's "incorrect" attitude.


Larijani's comment came after Britian announced it was suspending
all contacts with Iran not specifically related to the case of
the 15 naval personnel who were detained off Iraq on March 23.

