

World champion Sebastien Loeb claimed the Rally of Portugal on
Sunday as arch rival Marcus Gronholm was demoted from second to
fourth after picking up a time penalty.


Gronholm, who came in 37sec behind Loeb, was penalised five
minutes after the windows on his Ford Focus failed to pass a
post-race inspection.


Five other Ford Focus drivers suffered the same fate, including
third-placed Mikko Hirvonen who dropped back to fifth.


The penalties left former champion petter Solberg in second, 3min
13.9sec behind with Dani Sordo taking third.


Race organisers were also in hot water as they picked up a 50,000
dollars fine from the sport's world governing body, the FIA.


In a statement the FIA denounced as "inexcusable" the lack of
security measures which resulted in five people being injured in
practice Thursday when Portuguese driver Armindo Araujo's
Mitsubishi Lancer left the track.


It is the first time since 2001 that the Rally of Portugal has
been included in the World Rally Championship calendar, and next
year's race is already in doubt.


Frenchman Loeb achieved his second rally victory in a row
following his triumph in Mexico last month. He has won three of
the five rallies this season.


"I won the rally on Saturday when we twice came up with the right
tyre choice," he reflected.


"That helped me take a slender advantage over Marcus (Gronholm)
and then when he made a mistake I extended my lead."


The triple world champion took over the lead from former double
world champion Gronholm on Friday night following the seventh
special stage. And he never looked back, winning 11 of the 18
stages.


Gronholm said before his penalty which left Loeb leading the
championship: "It was a good weekend, but not perfect. On the
positive side I'm still leading the championship but I really
wanted to win here."


The world rally championship now takes a month-long break before
resuming in Argentina on May 4.

