

Red Cross officials have met with a detained Afghan who helped in
the release of a kidnapped Italian journalist last month, the
Italian foreign ministry said on Sunday.


Rahmatullah Hanefi, who played a role in freeing journalist
Daniele Mastrogiacomo on March 19, is believed to be held by the
Afghan secret service.


He works for a hospital in southern Afghanistan belonging to the
Italian humanitarian organisation Emergency which served as
intermediary in negotiations to free Mastrogiacomo.


"A Red Cross delegation was able to meet Hanefi," a ministry
spokesman told AFP confirming a report by Italian news agency
ANSA.


The spokesman did not say when or where the meeting took place
but Rome had been pressing for a contact to be made.


He welcomed a "first positive result of steps taken by the
Italian embassy in Kabul at the request of the Italian
government."


About 400 people rallied in Rome Saturday to demand the release
of Hanefi and Adjmal Naqshbandi, an Afghan interpreter.


Naqshbandi had been kidnapped in early March along with
Mastrogiacomo who works for the newspaper La Repubblica.


Mastrogiacomo, who was held for two weeks and witnessed the
beheading of his Afghan driver, was released in a swap of five
Taliban prisoners. Naqshbandi remains missing.


The journalist's sister appeared at Saturday's rally and
delivered a message from her brother, who she said was
"recuperating."


The message called on the United Nations, nongovernmental
organisations and countries with embassies in Kabul to "do the
maximum for the freedom of two friends."


The Italian government issued a statement Saturday saying work
was continuing on gaining their freedom.

