

A helicopter carrying three Western extreme skiers, among them a
Swiss pioneer of the sport, has gone missing in northern Indian-
administered Kashmir, officials said Friday.


The Indian Airforce has been alerted and was looking for the
helicopter, head of the Himalayan region's tourism department
said.


"The helicopter has gone missing in the Sonamarg area,"
department head Farooq Shah told AFP.


The area is about 100 kilometers (62 miles) northeast of the
Indian Kashmir summer capital of Srinagar.


The heliski trip was being led by Sylvain Saudan, a Swiss
national, officials said. The other two skiers were a man and a
woman, officials said, adding that the group included Swiss and
French nationals.


Further details, including on the helicopter crew, were not
immediately available.


Saudan is recognised as a pioneer of extreme skiing, and has been
organising paid heliski trips to the Himalayan region for the
past two decades.


He has also survived two helicopter crashes in the same Sonamarg
area, most recently in 2000.


"He is in love with Kashmir. He doesn't earn much by organising
such trips, he just has a passion about this place," said
Mohammed Ashraf, a former head of Kashmir's tourism department
and Saudan's close friend.


Saudan's trips involved departing from Srinagar in the morning
and returning midday for refueling before taking them back.


"When it did not return today, we were worried and informed the
police," an official at Srinagar's Grand Palace hotel told AFP.


Heliskiing involves using a helicopter to reach isolated peaks
for off-piste descents away from the crowds of established, lift-
served resorts.

