

UN atomic chief Mohamed ElBaradei said Friday that he hoped an
April 13 deadline could be still be met for starting to dismantle
North Korea's nuclear weapons program.


ElBaradei, director general of the UN watchdog International
Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), told reporters on returning to
Vienna from visits to Pyongyang and Beijing that he thought the
North Koreans "still would like to see that deadline respected
and we still hope to do it by April 13."


A pro-Pyongyang newspaper on Friday hailed US moves to resolve
financial sanctions against North Korea as a "landmark event,"
raising hopes for progress in the long-running disarmament talks.


North Korea has yet to give an official response to the US
Treasury's announcement on Wednesday that it had cleared the way
for the release of about 25 million dollars (20 million euros) of
North Korean funds frozen in a Macau bank.


However a column in the Japan-based Chosun Sinbo gave the first
hint that North Korea may accept the US deal and proceed with a
six-nation accord signed on February 13 that would see it begin
dismantling its nuclear programme.


ElBaradei said: "If the financial sanctions are over, then we
expect the DPRK (North Korea) to invite us to work out the
modalities of monitoring and verification" of North Korea's deal
to close and seal its Yongbyon reactor by April 13, 60 days after
the six-party agreement was reached.


ElBaradei, who visited North Korea Tuesday and Wednesday, said he
would not have to go back.


"Just our technical people" would "go and work out the
modalities," ElBaradei said.


He hinted that there would not yet be a meeting of the IAEA's
35-nation board of governors to authorize agency inspections in
North Korea.


He said there would be a board meeting "when we are ready" and
that IAEA inspectors were in any case on standy to go immediately
if there is a breakthrough.

