

A Turkish prosecutor Friday indicted a senior politician from the
country's main Kurdish party, demanding a jail sentence of up to
three years over remarks that allegedly threatened violence,
court officials said.


The charges against Hilmi Aydogdu, the provincial chairman of the
Democratic Society Party (DTP) in Diyarbakir, came after the
media quoted him as saying late last month that Turkey's Kurds
would "consider a Turkish attack on Kirkuk as an attack on
Diyarbakir."


The indictment asked for up to three years in jail for Aydogdu on
charges of "openly inciting hatred" on the basis of racial
differences.


Aydogdu was jailed pending trial on February 23 during the course
of the prosecutor's investigation.


His lawyer said he expected the trial to begin next month.


Turkey has issued harsh warnings over the future of the
ethnically mixed, oil- rich city of Kirkuk in northern Iraq,
which the Iraqi Kurds want to incorporate into their autonomous
region.


The city is also home to Arabs and Turkish-backed Turkmens.


Ankara is worried that Kurdish control of Kirkuk's oil reserves
will boost what it sees as Kurdish aspirations to break away from
Baghdad.


Kurdish independence, it fears, could further fuel a bloody
Kurdish  insurgency led by the outlawed Kurdistan Workers' Party
(PKK) in adjoining southeast Turkey, which has already resulted
in more than 37,000 deaths.


Aydogdu's remarks provoked a harsh reaction here at a time when
Iraqi Kurds are accused of supporting the PKK, whose militants
have long taken refuge in the mountains of the Kurdish autonomous
region in northern Iraq.


The DTP is frequently accused of supporting the PKK. Several of
its members have been prosecuted for links with the group, which
is blacklisted by Ankara, the United States and the European
Union.

