

Anderson Cummins is just one of five players at the World Cup who
also took part in the 1992 tournament.


But unlike Sachin Tendulkar, Sanath Jayasyriya, Brian Lara and
Inzamam-ul-Haq, Cummins is playing for a new country.


Pushing 41 years old, Cummins is part of the Canada team here
having once played 62 one-day internationals for the West Indies.


Age has slowed his pace, if not his ambition, although he hardly
set the tournament alight on Wednesday when Kenya beat Canada by
seven wickets with Cummins taking a modest 1-32.


"One of the things I realised pretty early is that I'm 40 and if
I try to pretend I'm 25 I'll fall flat," he told the BBC.


"I bowl with the new ball but I do more with it than I used to,
at a slower pace. The run-up is shorter. But it's all about what
I can contribute to this team."


Cummins gave up international cricket in 1996 and moved to
Canada.


"I got married, settled, got a real job like normal people," said
Cummins who still played occasional league cricket.


His road to the Canadian national team began when Englishman Andy
Pick, a former county championship seamer who knew Cummins from
his time with Durham, arrived to take over as coach.


Cummins made his debut in the World Cricket League in Kenya
taking just five wickets at an average of 48.60 and an economy
rate of 6.39 per over.


Despite that modest performance, Cummins says his hunger for the
game remains the same.


"You have to have the passion otherwise you wouldn't be here. It
wouldn't make sense."


Defeat by Kenya means Canada face the unlikely task of beating
both England (Sunday) and New Zealand (Tuesday) to progress from
the first round.


"Andy Pick has been really good about defining our game - what we
need to do. Forget who's at the other end, whether we bowl or
bat," said Cummins.


"We know we're rank underdogs. We've got to hope that the gods
are in our favour, that we are at the top of our game."

