

Pharmacy benefits group Caremark said Friday its shareholders had
approved a 26.5-billion-dollar takeover bid from retailer CVS to
create a titan in the sector.


Caremark said a "substantial majority of outstanding shares were
cast in favor of the merger" despite a rival bid from another
benefits group, Express Scripts.


"We are gratified that Caremark shareholders have recognized the
compelling strategic and financial benefits of this
groundbreaking merger," said Mac Crawford, chairman and chief
executive of Caremark.


"Caremark and CVS now have an historic opportunity to define and
lead the continuing evolution of the pharmaceutical services
industry and build on both companies' records of creating value
for our shareholders and customers."


Caremark said the deal, which had been in doubt when Express
Scripts made its offer, would be finalized soon. CVS shareholders
have already approved the plan.


With Caremark, CVS hopes for a bigger slice of the prescription
drug market which is expected to grow 8.2 percent a year through
2015.


Backers of the deal with CVS said the tie up would lead to fully-
integrated "end-to-end" pharmaceutical services, from plan design
to more efficient claims billing and better retail and mail order
prescription processing.


CVS is the largest US retail pharmacy, operating some 6,200
stores in 43 states and the District of Columbia.


Caremark manages pharmaceutical benefits for over 2,000 health
plan sponsors and has links with 60,000 participating pharmacies
and mail-order services.

