

The Somali government has asked the United States for help to
secure the release of a UN-chartered food aid ship hijacked last
month off the coast of the Horn of Africa nation, officials said
Friday.


Foreign Minister Ismail Mahamud Hurreh said Washington -- which
has troops based in neighbouring Djibouti -- should step in to
help release the MV Rozen and its 12 crew members.


"We specifically asked the United States for the release of the
hijacked ship which is in the hands of pirates," Hurreh told AFP
by telephone.


The freighter was seized on February 25 after it had delivered
1,800 tonnes of food aid from the UN World Food Programme to the
Somali semi-autonomous region of Puntland.


Hurreh also appealed to Washington to help fight all pirates
targeting commercial vessels off the country's unpatrolled
territorial waters.


"We have requested for the Americans to help us in fighting
piracy -- all kinds of piracy. We want a safe passage for the
commercial vessels and others providing aid for Somalia," Hurreh
said.


"It is very important for us to make our sea very peaceful."


Last year, the US navy arrested 12 suspected pirates in the
Indian Ocean and handed them to Kenya where they were charged
with piracy and sentenced to seven years in prison.


The latest hijack was the first pirate attack off the Somali
coast since the interim government, with Ethiopian military help,
drove out powerful Islamists from southern Somalia late last
year.


It has stoked fears of a new surge in piracy, which almost
disappeared during the six months of strict Islamist control of
Mogadishu and the south.

