

Ukraine's Yaroslav Popovych, of the Discovery Channel team, won
the fifth stage of the Paris-Nice cycling race here on Friday,
crossing the line just ahead of the main bunch.


Italy's Davide Rebellin, who rides for Gerolsteiner, retained the
leader's jersey however two days before the end of the race in
Nice.


Popovych managed to get away from his breakaway companions 14km
from the finish and crossed the line about 15 seconds before the
peloton.


Spain's Francisco Ventoso succeeded in securing second spot ahead
of France's Samuel Dumoulin.


The start of the 178km stage, delayed by nearly half an hour
after a nearby suicide, started brightly with a breakaway after
just nine kilometres.


The initial 13-man breakaway group was whittled down to seven at
which point there was a 2min 50sec lead over the main bunch. It
was at that point, 40km from the finish, that Popovych managed to
get away on his own and his lead extended to him being in the
virtual yellow jersey out on the course.


However the Gerolsteiner, Caisse d'Epargne and Predictor teams
gave chase to cut down the lead of the 2001 under-21 world
champion.


The 27-year-old Popovych did well in last year's Tour de France
to win the stage which finished at southern town Carcassonne, a
year after wearing the white jersey of the best youngster into
Paris.


In the overall standings, Rebellin has a six-second lead over
Spain's Alberto Contador.


Saturday's sixth stage has nine climbs in a 200km route from
Brignoles to Cannes.

