

Airlines were forced to cancel hundreds of flights in the
northeast United States Friday as a winter storm closed in,
bringing a grim mixture of snow, sleet and freezing rain.


Up to 45 centimeters (18 inches) of snow were forecast to fall on
Friday in upstate New York, while New York City was expecting 20
centimeters, said Kevin Lipton, a meteorologist with the National
Weather Service.


Much of the United States has experienced a milder than usual
winter, with many in the northeast thinking spring had sprung
early this week, but Lipton said the flurries were not unusual
for the time of year.


"You get snow sometimes in late March, sometimes you get it in
April, we even have snow in May. In fact February and March are
usually the snowiest months here in the Albany area" of upstate
New York, he said.


"This is more normal than abnormal," he added.


Nevertheless, airlines canceled flights as a precaution, with
Delta and budget carrier jetBlue between them grounding almost
500 flights.


"The reason we do this is that proactively canceling flights
allows Delta to begin re-accommodating customers in advance of a
storm," said Delta spokesman Kent Landers.


"We've learned over time it ensures that we can minimize the
delay and cancellation impact throughout the storm."


JetBlue spokesman Bryan Baldwin said the airline had canceled
more than 200 flights as a precaution, mostly domestic services
into and out of New York's Kennedy airport, but expected traffic
to return to normal over the weekend.


It has been an unusual year for weather in the northeast, with
unseasonably mild temperatures in January, when the mercury hit
21 degrees Celsius (70 degrees Fahrenheit), followed by record
snow in parts of New York in February.


Spring seemed to have come early this week, when temperatures in
New York City briefly hit 21 C, but it proved a brief respite.


Denis Feltgen, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service,
said earlier in the year that a moderate El Nino was behind the
unusual conditions.


The cyclical phenomenon involves warmer sea temperatures in the
Pacific Ocean that raise air temperatures and disrupt normal
weather patterns.


The phenomenon is named El Nino -- which means "the child" in
Spanish and refers to Jesus -- because its effects are usually
noticed around Christmas.


"In a typical El Nino year, and this is certainly one of them,
temperatures in the northern half of the country typically
average out above normal -- well above normal," Feltgen said.


A US government report released on Thursday said the Earth has
experienced its warmest December-February since records began 128
years ago.


A record warm January worldwide pushed average temperatures to
0.72 degrees Celsius above normal for the 20th century, the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration said.

