

South Africa's Herschelle Gibbs made history on Friday when he
hit six sixes in an over in his team's World Cup match against
the Netherlands at Warner Park here.


Gibbs became the first man to achieve the feat in a limited overs
match, and only the third in history in all forms of cricket,
when he launched into Dutch slow left-armer Daan van Bunge in the
30th over.


The brutal big-hitting took Gibbs from 32 at the start of the
over to 68 by the end of it.


Van Bunge at least had the minor consolation of helping to
dismiss his tormentor when he held a catch in the deep in the
next over off captain Luuk van Troost.


Gibbs eventually went for 72 with four fours and seven sixes
having faced just 40 balls.


The first man to hit six sixes off an over in a first-class match
was West Indian legend Sir Garry Sobers, playing for
Nottinghamshire against Glamorgan at Swansea in 1968 with Malcolm
Nash the bowler taking the punishment.


Former India all-rounder Ravi Shastri then equalled the feat
playing for Bombay against Baroda in 1984.


Gibbs's historic feat will also cost a leading drinks firm one
million dollars.


The Johnnie Walker company had already agreed to donate the money
to charity in honour of the first player to register the
landmark.


Former West Indies skipper Viv Richards had hoped on the eve of
the World Cup that six successive sixes would be hit.


"These days we are seeing more and more big totals and sixes
being hit in one- day cricket by powerful batsmen with big bats,
yet no-one has ever hit six sixes in one over of any
international match," said Richards on Tuesday.


"The only people who have ever done it in first-class cricket are
our own Gary Sobers and India's Ravi Shastri and to me this
tournament, with our traditionally short boundaries, is the time
to change that."

