

The latest political unrest in Zimbabwe will make it even harder
for the southern African country to reverse its economic
collapse, the head of the International Monetary Fund said
Friday.


"It is not in my capacity to make political judgments. But
political situations, if they are extreme, can affect economic
performance," Rodrigo de Rato told reporters during a visit to
Cape Town.


Speaking on the fringes of a gathering of the Parliamentary
Network of the World Bank, Rato said the IMF had been trying
unsuccessfully to steer the Zimbabwean government to "pursue a
stabilisation policy that will reduce inflation and increase the
chances of the country recovering from very difficult economic
circumstances".


"Up to now the government has not followed our advice," the IMF
president said. "And the recent political developments are not
helping in that respect."


The government of President Robert Mugabe launched a violent
opposition crackdown last weekend which saw several opposition
leaders arrested, beaten and hospitalised.


Mugabe is blamed for the country's economic collapse which has
seen inflation soar to 1,730 percent since he appropriated white-
owned farms several years ago for redistribution among landless
blacks.


The IMF has frozen assistance to Zimbabwe, citing non-payment of
arrears. The country averted IMF expulsion in 2005 by paying part
of its outstanding debt.

