

Owen Hargreaves has been restored to the England squad for this
month's crucial Euro 2008 qualifiers away to Israel and Andorra.


The Bayern Munich midfielder, one of England's few successes at
the World Cup in Germany last year, returns after recovering from
a broken leg and his dynamic presence represents a significant
boost for head coach Steve McClaren as he prepares for two
qualifiers he can not afford to lose.


Defeat by Croatia in Zagreb in October has left England
struggling in third place in their qualifying group and in
serious danger of failing to qualify for a major tournament for
the first time since the 1994 World Cup in the United States.


There is no place in McClaren's squad for either Manchester City
midfielder Joey Barton or Aston Villa's left-sided
midfielder/defender Gareth Barry, both of whom were involved in
last month's friendly defeat by Spain.


Barry's omission is the greater surprise as first choice left-
back Ashley Cole is suspended for the Israel match and his usual
back-up, Wayne Bridge, is injured.


McClaren has been forced to do without giant Liverpool striker
Peter Crouch, who is injured, and has dropped Chelsea winger
Shaun Wright-Phillips.


Watford goalkeeper Ben Foster impressed against Spain but
McClaren has indicated that Tottenham's Paul Robinson will be
handed the gloves for the crucial match with Israel in Tel Aviv
on March 24.


England squad


Goalkeepers: Paul Robinson (Tottenham), Ben Foster (Man
Utd/Watford on loan), Scott Carson (Liverpool/Charlton on loan)


Defenders: Gary Neville (Man Utd), Micah Richards (Man City), Rio
Ferdinand (Man Utd), John Terry (Chelsea, capt), Jonathan
Woodgate (Real Madrid/Middlesbrough on loan), Jamie Carragher
(Liverpool), Ashley Cole (Chelsea)


Midfielders: Phil Neville (Everton), Steven Gerrard (Liverpool),
Owen Hargreaves (Bayern Munich/GER), Frank Lampard (Chelsea),
Aaron Lennon (Tottenham), Scott Parker (Newcastle), Michael
Carrick (Man Utd), Kieron Dyer (Newcastle), Stewart Downing
(Middlesbrough)


Forwards: Andrew Johnson (Everton), Wayne Rooney (Man Utd),
Jermain Defoe (Tottenham), Darren Bent (Charlton)

