

Japanese music legend Seiji Ozawa has taken up his baton again in
Tokyo with a production of Wagner's "Tannhauser," his first opera
performance since poor health forced him to rest for more than a
year.


Opening the season of the Tokyo Opera Nomori, the company he
created in 2005, Ozawa led the world premiere of a "Tannhauser"
production co-produced with the Paris National Opera and directed
by the Canadian Robert Carsen.


The 71-year-old, renowned for his vigour, appeared energetic and
conducted for more than three hours Thursday evening, organisers
said.


The Tokyo Opera Nomori will present "Tannhauser" in Tokyo and
Yokosuka, a major military port city near the capital, until
March 24. The production will head on to Paris in November for
its European premiere.


Ozawa cancelled all of his engagements last year at the Vienna
State Opera, where he is musical director, due to illness
including fatigue and pneumonia.


He has since resumed working in Japan but under doctors' advice
takes long stretches of rest.


Ozawa, who spent nearly three decades at the Boston Symphony
Orchestra before moving to Vienna in 2002, has been at the
forefront of Japan's passion for Western classical music.


He has created the Saito Kinen festival, which each summer brings
leading names in classical music to Matsumoto in the Japanese
Alps.


The Nomori is Japan's first local opera company, part of Ozawa's
ambition to develop international-class musicians in Japan to put
on original productions.


His illness forced him to stay away from the Nomori's second
season.

