

EU Enlargement Commissioner Olli Rehn voiced concern here Friday
over stalled police reforms in Bosnia and warned the country's
leaders against nationalist rhetoric.


"I am concerned and disappointed for the lack of agreement on the
police reform," Rehn told Bosnian deputies during a visit to
Sarajevo.


Bosnian leaders this week ended another round of negotiations on
the reforms designed to unify the war-torn Balkan country's
police forces without any breakthrough.


"Without the agreement there will be no Stabilisation and
Association Agreement (SAA)," Rehn said, referring to the accord
seen as the first step on the long path toward full EU
membership.


The European Union has made police reforms and war crimes
cooperation key conditions for Bosnia to seal the agreement.


Bosnia completed a final round of negotiations on the SAA in
December but was asked by Brussels to complete the desired
reforms before being allowed to sign the SAA accord.


On Friday, Rehn also warned Bosnian leaders to refrain from using
"nationalist rhetoric."


Rehn told Bosnian officials that their country would not benefit
"from a return to the 1990s mentality," he said, referring to the
political climate ahead of the 1992-1995 Bosnian war which saw
the worst atrocities in Europe since World War II.


Serb politicians who generally oppose the strengthening of
central institutions insist on retaining control of Serb police,
while Croat and Muslim leaders want the forces to be unified and
put under the authority of the state.


Of the six former Yugoslav republics only Bosnia and Serbia
remain without any contractual relationship with the European
Union, after Montenegro initialed its SAA agreement on Thursday.

