

Indian Home Minister Shivraj Patil said on Friday that the
government was "fully determined" to counter the threat by Maoist
rebels, a day after the guerrillas killed 55 police.


In one of their worst attacks, the rebels -- called Naxalites
after Naxalbari village from where they launched their fight --
attacked a jungle security post in eastern Chhattisgarh state on
Thursday.


"The government views the Naxalite menace as an area of serious
concern and remains fully determined to combat the challenge
posed by it in association with state governments," Patil told
parliament.


The minister said search operations were under way to hunt the
rebels who hurled grenades, petrol bombs and fired
indiscriminately at the security post in Rani Bodli village.


The rebels say they are fighting for the rights of neglected
tribes and landless farmers.


Tens of thousands of people have been displaced in Chhattisgarh
and are now living in tent shelters as Indian counter-insurgency
forces operate in the countryside.


The rebels, who launched their armed campaign in 1967, also
operate in 14 other of India's 29 states. New Delhi refuses to
negotiate with them.


Officials have said the Maoist insurgency threatens huge swathes
of India's centre, east and south.


Last year, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh described the Maoists as
the single biggest threat to the nation's internal security.


On March 4, rebels shot dead high-profile federal member of
parliament Sunil Mahto in neighbouring Jharkhand state in their
first assassination of a national-level politician.


Some 669 people died in 2005 in violence linked to more than
9,000 armed rebels who have spread over 15 states, according to
government estimates.


At least 372 people, including 154 civilians and 75 security
force personnel were killed in Maoist-related violence in 2006,
according to a security portal run by government security advisor
K.P.S. Gill.

