

A former CIA agent on Friday accused the US government of
recklessly blowing her cover while she was gathering intelligence
on Iraqi weapons, in a scandal set to send a top White House aide
to prison.


"I feel passionately as an intelligence professional about the
creeping insidious politicizing of our intelligence process,"
former CIA agent Valerie Plame told a congressional committee, in
her first public testimony.


In July 2003, soon after her husband, former ambassador Joseph
Wilson, accused President George W. Bush's administration of
exaggerating the Iraqi threat to justify going to war, US media
revealed that Plame was a CIA operative, citing anonymous
administration sources.


Plame's husband has alleged the move was an act of revenge by the
White House for his opposition to the Iraq war.


When she discovered her cover was blown in the newspaper, Plame
said: "I felt like I had been hit in the gut. It (my career) was
over in an instant. And I immediately thought of my family's
safety, the agents, networks that I had worked with."


Plame also testified she was "shocked" by the findings of an
investigation into the leak that exposed her name and CIA
connection were shared semi-freely among White House staff and
journalists before being made public for "purely political
motives."


On March 6, Lewis "Scooter" Libby, Vice-President Dick Cheney's
former chief of staff, was found guilty of perjury and
obstruction of justice in the case.


He faces as much as 25 years in prison. Sentencing is set for
June 5.

