

Latin American, Caribbean, European and US officials participated
in a summit here Friday to draw up new strategies against illegal
drugs flowing from the Americas to the rest of the world.


Dominican President Leonel Fernandez opened the Santo Domingo
summit on Drugs, Security and Cooperation saying its aim was to
"bring attention to the great threat to the stability, democracy
and security of our peoples."


The summit will seek to find ways to "reduce the supply and
demand" of illegal drugs, he said.


Fernandez lamented that there was a drop in US action against
drug trafficking in the region, saying Washington was focused on
the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq.


"There has been a drop in the (US anti-drug) budget, that is why
we all feel the increase of drug trafficking, violent crime and
instability," he said.


Fernandez said US drug surveillance in the Caribbean has dropped
by 62 percent with fewer boats and aircraft being used to combat
the illicit trade.


Presidents Rene Preval of Haiti and Alvaro Uribe of Colombia were
among the participants along with prime ministers Patrick Manning
of Trinidad and Tobago and Ralph Consalves of St Vincent &
The Grenadines.


The leaders will discuss with experts and agents from several
countries new measures against drug trafficking in the region,
said Dominican Foreign Minister Carlos Morales Troncoso.


Organization of American States (OAS) chief Jose Miguel Insulza
also took part in the summit along with representatives from the
United States, Venezuela, Spain, France and the Netherlands.


Officials from the United Nations, the OAS's Inter-American Drug
Abuse Control Commission and the European Union were also in
attendance.


A final declaration will be issued at the end of the OAS-
sponsored summit taking place at the foreign ministry.

