

Six men have been arrested over the massacre of nine Buddhist
civilians this week in Thailand's Muslim-majority south, an army
spokesman said Friday.


"Six suspects have been arrested in Yala," the army spokesman,
Colonel Acar Tiproch told AFP, adding that they had been detained
at an army camp since Thursday night.


Yala is the most violent of the three provinces along Thailand's
southern border with Malaysia, where a separatist insurgency has
raged for three years, leaving some 2,000 dead.


The massacre of the Buddhists, who were shot in the head at
point-blank range after Islamic separatists forced their minibus
off the road, shocked the nation and highlighted the escalating
violence in the region.


The suspects -- all Muslim men -- were arrested in Yaha district
of Yala province, in the same area where the massacre and deadly
bombings of a mosque and a teashop took place on Wednesday, Acar
said.


They were arrested the same night that the military imposed a
curfew on the district, he said, adding that authorities had
identified the suspects based on forensics evidence and video
from security cameras.


Hours after the massacre, three Muslims were killed in the
bombing of a mosque in Yala, while another explosion hit a
teashop in the province.


The violence has escalated in recent months despite a raft of
peace-building measures proposed by Thailand's military-backed
government.


February was the most violent month yet in the insurgency, with
at least 210 attacks that left 54 dead and 189 injured, according
to academics who track the unrest.

