

The Southern African Development Community (SADC) will address
the escalating crisis in Zimbabwe at a meeting at the end of the
month in Tanzania, the Tanzanian foreign minister said Friday.


A day after Tanzanian President Jakaya Kikwete held talks that he
said were a "great success" with Zimbabwe's embattled leader
Robert Mugabe, Tanzania said three SADC countries charged with
dealing with Zimbabwe -- Tanzania, Namibia and Lesotho -- would
meet later this month.


"The troika will meet in Dar es Salaam on March 26 and 27 and
will discuss several issues in the SADC region, including trying
to help find a solution to the Zimbabwe crisis," Tanzanian
Foreign Minister Bernard Membe told AFP.


The 14-nation SADC is a regional bloc promoting development and
democracy in the region.


Pressure has mounted on Mugabe after police Sunday crushed an
opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) rally in Harare
and arrested its leader Morgan Tsvangirai and other opposition
activists for defying a police ban.


Police bludgeoned Tsvangirai and several of his supporters while
in custody on Sunday.


There has been stiff international condemnation of the police
action which critics said was a dramatic escalation of Mugabe's
opposition crackdown.


African leaders have urged "silent diplomacy" to address the
crisis that forced the southern African nation to pull out of the
Commonwealth, despite pressure for regime change from the West.


Harare has warned those aiming to oust the 83-year-old Mugabe,
who has been in power since independence from Britain in 1980,
would "pay a very heavy price."

