

Japan on Friday approved a campaign to certify "real" Japanese
food overseas, worried that a global sushi craze will bastardise
its national cuisine.


The campaign comes despite international derision after a panel
first made the recommendations last year, with some US restaurant
owners and press reports mocking the creation of a "sushi
police."


Agriculture Minister Toshikatsu Matsuoka gave the go-ahead Friday
on the panel's recommendations, which include creating a label
for "authentic" Japanese restaurants overseas, a ministry
official said.


The label will show that a restaurant or product is "real,"
taking into consideration factors such as ingredients and
atmosphere.


Japan estimates the world will have some 50,000 restaurants
purporting to serve Japanese food three years from now, double
the current number, amid perceptions that the cuisine is healthy.


But culinary purists -- and some government officials -- have
expressed horror at what can pass for Japanese food overseas.


"Japanese restaurants are sharply increasing throughout the world
despite insufficient information on Japanese food and the
ingredients characteristic of Japanese cuisine," said the report
approved Friday.


"As a result, there is concern that the image and brand of
Japanese cuisine is being damaged," it added.


In light of last year's criticism, the government said that it
will have minimal involvement in the process. It said local
groups will issue the labels, the exact shape of which is yet to
be decided.


"The government will help finance the launching of this project
and the fundamentals of this system, but the rest will be
overseen by the private sector," said the agricultural ministry
official.


"The local bodies will include food professionals, companies and
even individuals. We want them to be as wide open to anyone as
possible," the official said.

