

World powers must not be swayed by threats of violence as they
consider Kosovo's status, Serbian President Boris Tadic said
Friday ahead of the third anniversary of anti-Serb riots in the
province.


The international community should not "yield to extremist
blackmailing," but rather ensure the safety of all citizens in
Kosovo, Tadic said in a statement.


"We must all together fight for democracy and a common European
future where no people will be persecuted and where criminals
will imprisoned and not involved in political life," he said.


Kosovo has been run by the United Nations since 1999, when NATO
bombing helped to oust Serbian forces from the province over a
brutal crackdown on separatist ethnic Albanian rebels and their
civilian supporters.


In the coming weeks, the UN Security Council is to consider a
plan drafted by special envoy Martti Ahtisaari that offers Kosovo
Albanians the trappings of statehood under European Union-led
supervision.


NATO, which has since 1999 had thousands of troops in Kosovo, was
sharply criticised for failing to prevent several days of rioting
from March 17, 2004.


Tadic appealed to authorities to arrest those responsible for the
unrest in which 19 people died, more than 900 were injured and
dozens of Orthodox Christian churches and monasteries destroyed
or damaged.


International courts have since indicted more than 30 people in
connection with the violence, of whom 26 have been found guilty
and another four are awaiting trial, according to the UN mission
in Kosovo.

