

Thai stocks are likely to fall next week amid growing worries
over a slump in export growth as the baht continues to hit new
nine-year highs against the dollar, analysts said Friday.


Investors will also trade with caution ahead of the US Federal
Reserve's two-day policy meeting, which ends on Wednesday, they
said.


"Sentiment is going to be negative as investors are worried over
weak export growth due to the baht's appreciation against the
dollar," said Kanang Duangmanee, a senior economist at Kasikorn
Research Center.


The Thai baht hit its new nine-year highs against the dollar over
the past week due to ongoing speculation that the Bank of
Thailand would soon end controversial capital controls aimed at
taming the rising local unit.


Despite repeated official comments saying the government would
keep the currency controls, investors were betting the opposite,
pushing the Thai baht to new highs against the greenback.


The Thai baht on Friday closed at 34.92-93 to the dollar, up from
35.22-24 a week earlier.


Kanang said the rising baht would pressure the market, especially
export-linked stocks, as it makes Thai exporters less competitive
in overseas markets and cuts the value of firms' repatriated
profits.


Exports are the key driver of the Thai economy, which is expected
to slow down this year mainly due to sluggish shipment growth.


"With weak export growth, market players are speculating whether
the government will announce economy-boosting measures," Kanang
said.


For the week to March 16, the Stock Exchange of Thailand
composite index slipped just 0.12 points to close at 671.05 on
Friday.


Kanang said the market would likely fall to the 665-point level
next week.

