

Former Ireland forward Trevor Brennan was Friday banned from
rugby for life after assaulting a supporter during Toulouse's
28-13 European Cup victory over Ulster in January.


The ban was imposed by an independent disciplinary committee
after a hearing in London which Brennan, who announced his
retirement earlier this week, did not attend.


The Toulouse player has the right to appeal but that appears
unlikely given his decision to stop playing in advance of his
planned retirement at the end of the season.


The hearing concluded that Brennan was guilty of serious conduct
over an incident in which he entered a seating area during the
match and repeatedly punched an Ulster supporter, Patrick
Bamford.


Brennan had unsuccessfully attempted to have his hearing
adjourned pending a separate civil case.


The disciplinary committee concluded that: "Mr Brennan's
behaviour was completely unjustified and that he caused serious
harm to an innocent spectator and significant damage to the image
of Rugby Union.


"The Committee could not envisage more serious misconduct in
relation to spectators and believed that the maximum permissible
suspension was appropriate.


"The committee therefore imposed on Mr Brennan a lifetime
suspension from playing Rugby Union and also imposed a lifetime
ban on Mr Brennan from participating in any capacity in
tournaments organised by (European Cup organiser) ERC."


Brennan was also fined 25,000 euros and ordered to pay 5,000
euros compensation to Bamford and the costs of convening the
hearing.

