

David Radler, a longtime associate of troubled Canadian press
baron Conrad Black, agreed to pay 28.7 million dollars to settle
a fraud probe by US regulators, officials said Friday.


The Securities and Exchange Commission, the US securities
watchdog, filed civil charges against Radler and his former boss,
Black, in late 2004 claiming they had orchestrated a fraudulent
scheme to misappropriate millions of dollars from Hollinger
International and its international media assets.


Black, who once presided over the world's third-largest newspaper
publishing empire, is on trial in Chicago for treating his former
media group as a personal fiefdom that he allegedly raided for
huge bonuses and petty cash.


Radler, a Canadian, is expected to serve as a key witness against
Black as the trial unfolds.


Under the terms of the SEC accord, Radler, a former top Hollinger
executive, is obliged to pay 23.7 million dollars in disgorgement
and interest. He did not admit or deny the allegations.


Radler was also ordered to pay a five million dollar civil
penalty and has been barred from serving as an officer or
director of a public company.


"Radler and others misappropriated millions of dollars from
Hollinger International and made numerous misstatements to
shareholders as part of their scheme," said Linda Thompson, the
SEC's chief enforcement official.


"The tough sanctions in this settlement, including one of the
largest civil penalties in recent years against an individual
wrongdoer, reflect our resolve to act forcefully against
corporate officers who perpetrate fraud against those whom they
were supposed to serve, the shareholders of the company," Thomsen
said.


Black has claimed he is innocent of all charges relating to his
running of Hollinger, where he served as a former chairman and
chief executive.

