

Partial local polls set for May 27 and 28 will be the first major
electoral test for the centre-left government of Italian Prime
Minister Romano Prodi, whose cabinet set the dates on Friday.


Prodi, whose wide-ranging coalition narrowly won elections in
April last year, has been losing in the popularity stakes for
several months since he unveiled an austerity budget for 2007.


The centre-left's position was further eroded when Prodi was
forced to resign after losing a foreign policy vote in the Senate
last month. He was reinstated and survived confidence votes in
both houses of parliament.


The May elections involving 12 million voters -- about one-
quarter of the population -- concerns mayors and provincial
presidents.


Major cities to hold mayoral races include Genoa, Verona, Parma,
Lucas, Palermo and Reggio Calabria.


Opposition leader Silvio Berlusconi recently underscored "the
strong political significance" of the polls and called on the
centre-right to "get ready to replace the left in government as
soon as possible."


Piero Fassino, head of the largest centre-left party, Democrats
of the Left, retorted: "Berlusconi should accept facts, because
the vote will not decide who will go to Rome to govern. The
Italians already decided that in 2006."


A poll carried out last month found that 51 percent of Italians
would vote for the right, against 47 percent for the left, if
early elections were held.


Another survey carried out in early March found that, despite
slightly greater confidence in the Prodi government, only 37
percent said it was functioning well, against 36 percent who said
the opposite.

