

President Mary McAleese on Friday sent greetings to the global
Irish family Friday as final preparations were made for the huge
annual St Patrick's day celebrations across the world.


March 17 is a national holiday in Ireland and, like emigrants all
over the world, hundreds of towns and cities in the country
celebrate the patron saint with parades and festivals.


"The Irish love of music, dance, fun and friendship will be
showcased in every continent thanks to the work of countless
committees whose passion for Ireland and her unique heritage has
seen the St Patrick's Day pageant grow into a truly global
phenomenon," McAleese said.


Her greeting came as Prime Minister Bertie Ahern, his deputy, 11
cabinet ministers, 15 junior ministers and the attorney general
have over the past week been dropping in on 21 countries on five
continents to promote Ireland.


The St Patrick's Day festival marks the first seasonal boost for
Ireland's tourism industry -- generating an estimated 60 million
euros (79 million dollars).


But this year more than 300,000 people are also flying out of the
country to take a break.


St Patrick, whose feast day has been in the Christian calendar
since the ninth century, is credited with converting the country
to Christianity and to have baptised thousands, ordained priests
and set up churches and monasteries.


But on the eve the national holiday, a US academic cast doubt on
the generally- accepted dates when the country's patron saint
actually lived, suggesting he was born 40 years earlier than
thought.


Daniel Melia, professor of Celtic Studies at the University of
California, Berkeley, said the dates of Patrick's life -- AD 390
to 460 or 490 -- were "based on the shakiest of guesses."


Melia re-evaluated the undated Latin writings Patrick left
behind, which were used to estimate when he lived, and concluded
from the language he must have been alive from about AD 350 to
425 or 430.

