

A US Army combat aviation brigade with about 2,600 troops will be
deployed to Iraq 45 days ahead of schedule, expanding a surge of
US forces to nearly 30,000 troops, a senior defense official said
Friday.


An aviation brigade from the 3rd Infantry Division was being
notified of the decision, which was made Thursday, the official
said. It had been scheduled to go to Iraq in June.


"The latest piece on this is the combat aviation brigade which is
being notified it is being deployed early," said the official,
who spoke on condition of anonymity.


"This aviation brigade, which will go 45 days early, we hadn't
previously announced," said the official. "But it is part of the
7,000 to 8,000 enablers that you've been hearing about."


Top Pentagon officials told Congress earlier this month that some
7,000 additional troops would be deployed as part of the surge.


They are in addition to 21,500 extra combat troops in five combat
brigades that are being sent to Iraq at a rate of about one a
month through May.


Currently, there are 142,000 US troops in the country.


The official said General David Petraeus, the US commander in
Iraq, had requested the aviation brigade and some 2,200 military
police after reviewing his requirements for a crackdown center in
Baghdad.


His request for military police was approved last week.


The aviation brigade would include UH-60 Black Hawk helicopters,
AH-64 Apache attack helicopters, CH-47 Chinooks, and OH-58 Kiowa
Warrior reconnaissance/attack helicopters.


The piece-by-piece expansion of the surge comes amid fierce
debate in the US Congress over Democratic-sponsored measures to
force the administration to begin withdrawing forces from Iraq
this year.


The Senate late Thursday rejected 50 to 48 a measure that set a
goal of March 2008 for the withdrawal of US troops.


But a separate measure that would pull US troops out by September
2008 was passed by the House Appropriations Committee.

