

Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe Friday threatened to expel
Western diplomats he accused of backing the opposition whose
leader was assaulted by security forces crushing an anti-
government rally.


"Those who would want to represent their countries here must
behave properly or else we kick them out of our country," Mugabe
told a meeting of the youth assembly of his ruling party.


"We will kick them out of this country. So I have asked the
minister of foreign affairs to summon them and read the riot act
to them.


"We shall tell the ambassadors that this is not a country which
is a piece of Europe. Zimbabwe is part of Africa."


Mugabe's warnings come a day after he scoffed at Western
governments that have condemned the assault of opposition leader
Morgan Tsvangirai and scores of party activists telling them to
"go and hang."


"We are the government, we will not be deterred by any criticisms
which are completely unfounded from carrying out our duties,"
Mugabe said, adding that the opposition risked beatings if they
stage more protests.


"If they repeat it they will get arrested and get bashed by the
police," he said.


"If they want to fight the police, the police have the right to
bash."


He said that following threats by the opposition to press ahead
with protests to topple him, police officers would be armed to
defend themselves.


Mugabe has accused the MDC of instigating the weekend violence,
while Tsvangirai was discharged from hospital on Friday following
his arrest for trying to attend a banned demonstration on Sunday.

