

Thousands of Eurostar passengers saw their trains to and from
London and continental Europe cancelled Friday after a track-side
fire in the British capital forced a 24-hour suspension of
services.


A company spokesman said the closure, because of the risk of gas
cylinders exploding after the blaze, would affect 6,000 people
due to leave London on Eurostar services Friday night and 4,500
due to arrive in the city.


About 24,000 people planning to travel Saturday would be hit,
with 12,000 heading into and 12,000 heading out of London on 30
services.


Eurostar, which runs high-speed passenger trains through the
Channel Tunnel linking London with Paris and Brussels, has
imposed the suspension until 1700 GMT Saturday, even though the
fire has been put out.


Some nearby homes and businesses in the affected area have been
evacuated as a 200-metre exclusion zone was set up while the gas
cylinders cool.


The incident also disrupted domestic commuter services using
London's mainline Waterloo and Victoria terminuses, the latter of
which was closed down.


London Fire Brigade, which sent two fire engines and around 10
firefighters, said the incident involved an unidentified cylinder
near the small, inner-city Wandsworth Road commuter station.


"Crews were called to a fire at a breakers yard at 1:30 pm (1330
GMT)," a spokesman said.


"The fire was quickly put out, but an unidentified cylinder is
involved.


"As some cylinders can explode when exposed to heat there is a
200-metre hazard zone in place whilst the cylinder is being
cooled."


A Eurostar spokesman said: "We were informed by Network Rail that
a serious line-side fire in a yard near Wandsworth Road station
has meant the fire authorities have instructed them to close all
the railway lines in this area," a Eurostar spokesman said.


"This means that no Eurostar services can operate in or out of
Waterloo International.


"Because of the risk of gas cylinders exploding, the fire
authorities have stated that it will be 24 hours before they can
intervene.


"There is no alternative route and therefore, Eurostar regrets
that it has no alternative but to suspend its entire operation
until Saturday at 1700 GMT.


"Eurostar passengers who are unable to travel can exchange
(within two months) or have their tickets refunded."


A spokeswoman for Network Rail, in charge of the tracks, said the
fire was extinguished at around 2:00 pm (1400 GMT) and domestic
services into and out of the London Victoria terminal would now
be diverted to other stations.


Eurostar was launched in November 1994 after the completion of
the Channel Tunnel between England and France.

