

South Korean Defence Minister Kim Jang-soo expressed "scepticism"
over the North Korean nuclear deal, his visiting French
counterpart Michele Alliot-Marie said after a meeting here
Friday.


"I found him sceptical on the chances to really arrive at results
with the North Koreans," Alliot-Marie told reporters.


She noted however that it was "not necessarily the attitude of
the whole South Korean government of which certain members are
probably more optimistic."


The French minister's visit comes at the time of intense efforts
to implement an agreement signed in Beijing on February 13 under
which Pyongyang promised to begin dismantling its nuclear
programme within two months in exchange for energy aid and
diplomatic concessions.


A new series of six-nation talks on North Korea's nuclear
programme is due to start on Monday in the Chinese capital.


According to Alliot-Marie's entourage, Kim asserted that there
was "not much confidence between the two Koreas" who therefore
"need time."


Touching on this issue and the rising might of the Chinese
military, whose budget will increase by nearly 18 percent to
about 45 billion dollars this year, the French minister indicated
that her South Korean counterpart had insisted on the need to
establish "transparency and confidence."


"It is normal that a country as large as China is preoccupied
with having an army of this strength," Alliot-Marie said,
repeating her call for "transparency" so "there are no suspicions
over the Chinese intentions and that this goes in the direction
of peace".


The minister, who arrived Friday in Seoul from Japan, is also due
to meet South Korean President Roh Moo-hyun, who favours
reconciliation with the North.


She will also visit Panmunjon, in the demilitarized zone
separating the two Koreas before departing on Sunday for China on
the last leg of her tour of Northeast Asia.

