

The dollar fell to its lowest level in three months against the
euro here Friday on concerns that US economic momentum could be
losing steam in the face of a housing market downturn.


The single European currency in late-day trade was at 1.3311
dollars after 1.3236 late Thursday in New York. The euro at one
point rose to 1.3340 dollars, its best showing since December 8,
2006.


The dollar was meanwile trading at 116.76 yen, down from 117.48
on Thursday.


There was little impact from US inflation data released Friday
that was slightly above predictions.


US consumer prices rose 0.4 percent in February, the Labor
Department said. The consumer price index (CPI) was stronger than
the 0.3 percent expected by Wall Street analysts.


But the "core" CPI index, which excludes volatile food and energy
costs, was up a more modest 0.2 percent, in line with market
forecasts.


The data should come somewhat as a relief a day after a separate
report showed an unexpected 1.3 percent surge in wholesale
prices.


But the figures failed to lift overall weak sentiment surrounding
the dollar and analysts noted that the greenback's vulnerability
has become more broad-based during a week of stock market
volatility.


"Dollar weakness since the big equity market sell-off began at
the end of February has largely been confined to lower-yielding
currencies as carry trades have come under pressure, but over the
past two days the dollar has come under broader pressure," said
Daniel Katzive at UBS.


Investors are worried about an overall US slowdown in the US,
concerns that have been driven in particular by the difficulties
facing sub-prime housing lenders, who lend money to borrowers who
do not qualify for conventional loans.


As the economy slows, these borrowers tend to default at a much
higher rate than those holding ordinary loans. Reports of stress
in this section of the market is particularly worrying amid
ongoing talk of a US housing market slowdown.


Former US Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan warned late
Thursday there was a risk that rising defaults in sub-prime US
mortgage lending markets could spill over into other economic
sectors.


Even though concerns about the US economy have raised fears that
the rest of the world will suffer too, the consequent rise in
risk aversion has not helped the dollar, as it has done
historically.


"The dollar has had a very strong correlation with risk appetite
over recent years, with lower risk appetite sending the dollar
higher and vice-versa," said Mitul Kotecha, head of global
foreign exchange research at Calyon.


"However, its important to note that the current bout of risk
aversion is very US-centric, being attributable to fears about
the US sub-prime mortgage market and is therefore much less
likely to play positively for the dollar," he added.


Analysts said Federal Reserve policymakers meeting next week were
unlikely to reduce the bechmmark Fed Funds rate from its current
level of 5.25 percent.


The euro was changing hands at 1.3311 dollars, against 1.3236
dollars on Thursday, 155.41 yen (155.51), 0.6854 pounds (0.6835)
and 1.6002 Swiss francs (1.6110).


The dollar stood at 116.76 yen (117.48) and 1.2078 Swiss francs
(1.2171).


The pound was being traded at 1.9423 dollars (1.9360).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold rose to 653.20
dollars per ounce from 648.50 dollars late on Thursday.

