

Explosive all-rounder Andrew Symonds will have to wait until the
South African match for his first chance in the World Cup,
Australia team physiotherapist Alex Kountouris said on Friday.


The 31-year-old Symonds told captain Ricky Ponting on Wednesday
that he was eager to play in Australia's second match against the
Netherlands on Sunday after recovering from arm surgery.


But Kountouris said Symonds will not be rushed back.


"Symonds is not going to play in that Sunday game," Kountouris
said. "He hasn't done enough to be able to play in that game at
this point. It represents too much of a risk.


"He is on target for a week or so. The realistic game is South
Africa," Kountouris said of the Group A crunch match on March 24.


Symonds was included in the 15-man World Cup squad despite
hurting his bicep during the tri-series held in Australia last
month.


He completed his first batting training in St Vincent last week
by facing tennis ball in the nets.


Since his arrival in St Kitts, the player has shown signs of full
recovery but Kountouris is prepared to stand firm.


Australian officials did not rule out a chance Symonds could be
played purely as a batsman, but even Ponting said he would be
held back until the artificially attached tendon is functioning
at 100 percent.


"He (Symonds) told me on the bus that he was ready to play even
the Scotland match. That's him saying that, and we know what
Simmo is like," Ponting said on Wednesday after Australia crushed
the Scots by 203 runs in their opening match.


The delay in Symonds' comeback gives a reprieve to batsman Brad
Hodge.


Hodge hit 29 against Scotland and took one wicket to earn his
captain's praise.


Australian chairman of selectors Andrew Hilditch believes Symonds
would be an automatic choice once he regains full fitness.


"He (Symonds) is one of the greatest one-day players in the world
so when he is fit I am sure he will be coming back in the side,"
Hilditch said earlier this week.

