

South African Nobel laureate Desmond Tutu Friday spoke out
against African leaders, saying they should be ashamed over the
political crisis in Zimbabwe.


"All of us who are leaders in Africa must hold our heads in shame
for allowing what has happened in Zimbabwe. It is deeply
distressing," the retired Anglican archbishop told reporters on
his way to Mauritius.


Tutu said leaders on the continent had let Zimbabweans down many
times, holding 83-year-old President Robert Mugabe in high regard
and insisting that they respect his sovereignty.


"We really have to stand to the contrary. Disgraceful things are
happening there. We didn't say a great deal when the land-grab
happened and when many people in Harare were being grabbed out of
their homes and had their houses demolished.


"African leaders (only) talked about sovereignty."


Tutu's comments come amid growing international calls for tougher
action against Mugabe's regime, condemning a crackdown on
opposition activists in which Movement for Democratic Change
(MDC) leader Morgan Tsvangirai was badly beaten.


Tutu said it was a "nightmare" what Mugabe, whom he holds in high
regard, had turned into.


"President Mugabe is someone that many of us have in very high
regard. We must not dismiss the things that he did. He did not
engage in revenge after he took power. It makes things worse for
me to hold him up as a leader of whom I was very proud."


But he said Mugabe's heroic past should not blind people to act
against him in protecting the human rights of Zimbabweans.


"The important thing we need to say is violation of human rights
wherever it happens, whoever perpetrates it, is a violation of
human rights... even if he used to be a hero."


His comments came as wheelchair-bound MDC leader Tsvangirai was
earlier released from hospital, with the country's opposition
vowing to finish off its campaign to topple Mugabe.

