

Eurostar said Friday it was suspending all services between
London and continental Europe for 24 hours due to a track-side
fire in the British capital.


The passenger train company said there was a risk of gas
cylinders exploding following the blaze near an inner-city
commuter train station. Some 11,000 people expected to travel on
Eurostar Friday night would be affected, it added.


The incident also severely disrupted domestic commuter services
heading out of London's mainline Waterloo and Victoria stations.


Some nearby homes and businesses have been evacuated as a
200-metre exclusion zone was placed around the area while the gas
cylinders cool.


"We were informed by Network Rail that a serious line-side fire
in a yard near Wandsworth Road station has meant the fire
authorities have instructed them to close all the railway lines
in this area," a Eurostar spokesman said.


"This means that no Eurostar services can operate in or out of
Waterloo International.


"Because of the risk of gas cylinders exploding, the fire
authorities have stated that it will be 24 hours before they can
intervene.


"There is no alternative route and therefore, Eurostar regrets
that it has no alternative but to suspend its entire operation
until Saturday at 1700 GMT.


"Eurostar passengers who are unable to travel can exchange
(within two months) or have their tickets refunded."


London Fire Brigade said the incident involved an unidentified
cylinder.


"Crews were called to a fire at a breakers yard at 1:30 pm (1330
GMT)," a spokesman said.


"The fire was quickly put out, but an unidentified cylinder is
involved.


"As some cylinders can explode when exposed to heat there is a
200-metre hazard zone in place whilst the cylinder is being
cooled."

