

A list of prisoners which the Hamas movement wants released in
exchange for an Israeli serviceman does not include Palestinian
militant leader Marwan Barghuti of the moderate Fatah party, an
Israeli minister said Wednesday.


"Marwan Barghuti's name does not appear on the list" which
Egyptian mediators handed Israel last week, Housing Minister and
member of the powerful security cabinet Meir Sheetrit told public
radio.


Barghuti, the West Bank leader of president Mahmud Abbas's
secular Fatah party who is widely revered by Palestinians as the
mastermind of their second uprising or intifada, is serving five
life sentences for planning attacks against Israelis.


On Tuesday, Prime Minister Ehud Olmert convened a first meeting
with the heads of Israel's security establishment to discuss the
list, following which Israel expressed "disappointment and
reservations from the list."


Corporal Gilad Shalit was captured on June 25 when militants
tunnelled out of Gaza and attacked an army border post. The raid
sparked a deadly Israeli air and ground offensive against the
Gaza Strip that killed several hundred Palestinians before a
November ceasefire came into force.


Olmert will convene the security cabinet next Sunday to set
Israel's criteria for clearing prisoners for release, although
Israel has previously said that it would not release Barghuti or
other prisoners responsible for killing Israelis.


A source close to the Palestinian government told AFP the list,
which contained the names of 450 prisoners, included both
Barghuti and Ahmed Saadat, the leader of a militant group which
assassinated an Israeli minister in 2001.

