

Fiji's coup leader Voreqe Bainimarama was rebuffed by powerful
indigenous chiefs Wednesday when they rejected his nomination for
vice-president of the country.


The Great Council of Chiefs refused to endorse Ratu Epeli
Ganilau, who is currently serving as interim foreign minister, to
replace Ratu Joni Madraiwiwi, who was forced by the military to
resign after the December 5 coup.


"The council of chiefs rejected the president's nomination for
vice president at its meeting today," council official Ratu Meli
Bainimarama told journalists late Wednesday after their meeting
near Suva.


"I don't know whether they will consider another nomination at
tomorrow's meeting or they will decide on another nomination at a
later date."


The council has authority under the constitution to appoint the
president and vice president. They have been in conflict with
Bainimarama over December's bloodless coup, but in January
endorsed his move to reappoint the military chief's ally Ratu
Josefa Iloilo as president.


Nailatikau comes from a powerful family and is married to the
daughter of Fiji's first prime minister after independence, the
late Ratu Sir Kamasese Mara.


There was no immediate response from Bainimarama's office on the
rejection of Nailatikau. But it will be a blow to the self-
appointed interim prime minister's attempts to project an image
of unity in Fiji after his overthrow of the elected government of
then prime minister Laisenia Qarase.


The decision is likely to escalate the conflict between the
influential council and the military which began before the coup.
The council then sided with Qarase's government in the days
leading up to the coup.


Bainimarama was conspicuously absent from the chiefs meeting and
his place at the head of the meeting room remained empty.

