

The number of single-parent families in Britain has tripled since
1971, while young people are staying at home for longer, many
well into their 20s, new data showed Wednesday.


Soaring house prices are having a growing impact on social
trends, with people living in smaller spaces, while the number of
people living on their own has also doubled in the last 35 years,
according to the official figures.


Some 24 percent of children lived with just one parent in 2006,
compared to 22 percent in 2001, and 21 percent in 1996, according
to the Office for National Statistics (ONS) Social Trends report.


Nine out of 10 lone-parent families are headed by mothers, said
the report which also showed that single parent families lived in
worse accommodation.


"Recent decades have seen marked changes in household patterns,"
the report said.


"The traditional family household of a married couple with a
child or children is less common, while there has been an
increase in lone-parent households," it added.


Meanwhile homes are getting smaller, with two-bedroom properties
replacing four- bedroom homes as the most common type of newly-
build house, and flats also on the increase.


In the decade to 2005, the average density of new homes built in
England rosefrom 24 to 40 per hectare.


The number of people living alone in Britain more than doubled
from three million to seven million between 1971 and 2005.


And children are staying at home for longer: last year nearly 60
percent of men and 40 percent of women aged from 20-24 still
lived in the family home.


Since 1971 the proportion of all people living in "traditional"
family homes of couples with dependent children has fallen from
52 percent to 37 percent.


Over the same period the proportion of people living as unmarried
couples with no children increased from 19 percent to 25 percent
as couples have children later and more couples see their
offspring leave home, it said.

