

Fifty-four junior army officers pleaded guilty Wednesday to a
failed 2003 mutiny in the Philippines in a plea bargain agreement
for a lesser sentence.


The officers changed their plea from "not guilty" to guilty of
"conduct prejudicial to good order and military discipline"
during a courts martial Wednesday.


"We appeal to the court to consider their voluntary surrender,
voluntary change in plea and their long time in detention," their
lawyer Edgardo Abaya asked the court.


The officers asked that in exchange for pleading guilty to the
lesser offence, they be spared the more serious charge of mutiny,
which carries a life sentence.


A group of about 184 soldiers who earlier entered a similar plea
bargain over the so-called "Oakwood Mutiny" in Manila's financial
district in 2003 were sentenced to just two years in jail and
will be reinstated in the military.


The renegade soldiers took over the "Oakwood" apartment and hotel
building, housing businessmen and diplomats for one day while
demanding President Gloria Arroyo and the defence chiefs step
down.


They surrendered after the military gave them an ultimatum to
surrender or face attack.


One of the leaders, Lieutenant Antonio Trillanes, is now running
for Senate and campaigning from his jail cell.


The courts martial, headed by Air Force Brigadier General
Nathaniel Legaspi, will decide on the plea bargain later
Wednesday.


At the same hearing, the court also approved the release of four
other junior officers after the Army Special Adjudication Board
said it found no probable cause against them.


Seven other junior officers did not join in the plea bargain.


It is believed two of these officers are seeking to become state
witnesses to the plot.

