

Bangladesh's military-backed government has severely restricted
the freedom of former prime minister Khaleda Zia, one of her
aides confirmed Wednesday.


"The intelligence department sent the order to the guards
(Tuesday) at the Zia's house that only four people could meet her
from now on," said Zia's acting secretary, asking not to be
named.


"They are: her two brothers, personal physician and an ex-member
of parliament," he told AFP.


The secretary said he did not know if Zia's movements had also
been restricted, but added that she was not venturing out for the
time being.


The clampdown came hours after Zia warned that the country, under
emergency rule since January, was at a crossroads and called for
unity.


Bangladesh has been under a military-backed government since the
start of the year, when polls scheduled for January 22 were
cancelled and a state of emergency enforced.


The government has curbed freedom of speech and banned politics.
It has also launched a nationwide crackdown to clean up
corruption in politics.


At least 50 top politicians have been arrested including Zia's
once influential Tareque Rahman.


On Monday the Bangladeshi chief executive officer of a Malaysian-
owned company filed an extortion case against the leader of the
opposition, Sheikh Hasina Wajed.


Hasina will return home from the United States on April 14 to
face the charges, her press secretary Abul Kalam Azad told AFP.


Zia could also be sent into exile as part of the government's
move to clean up politics, several daily newspapers said on
Tuesday.

