

Richard Jefferson scored 35 points and Vince Carter had six of
his 31 in the final 12 seconds to lift New Jersey to a 96-92 NBA
win Tuesday over Washington, who still booked their playoff
berth.


All-Star point guard Jason Kidd, held to four points to match his
lowest total since March 3, made his second field goal count by
tipping in Jefferson's miss with 30 seconds left to give New
Jersey the lead for good 90-89.


The Wizards, who were playing without injured All-Stars Gilbert
Arenas and Caron Butler, still came away with a positive result
as they locked up a National Basketball Association playoff berth
when Indiana lost at Philadelphia.


Antawn Jamison again stepped up in the absence of Washington's
two biggest stars with 26 points and 11 rebounds, marking his
third double-double in four games.


It was a rematch of Saturday's wild 120-114 overtime victory by
the Nets in which Carter and Kidd became the first teammates to
post triple-doubles in the same game since Michael Jordan and
Scottie Pippen with the Chicago Bulls in 1989.


This time it was Jefferson leading the way for New Jersey. The
swingman, who missed 21 games with an ankle injury earlier in the
season, finished 13-of-19 from the field.


Trailing 89-84 with 1:40 left, the Nets ran off an 8-0 spurt as
Carter sandwiched baskets around hoops by Jefferson and Kidd for
a 92-89 advantage with 12 seconds to play.


Carter sealed the game with four free throws in the final 5.4
seconds.


While he did little on offense, Kidd had 14 rebounds and 11
assists for New Jersey.


Darius Songaila added 19 points for the Wizards, who are in the
playoffs for the third straight season despite suffering their
fifth straight defeat.

