

Japanese share prices firmed slightly in morning trade on
Wednesday on the heels of Wall Street although buying was limited
by worries about domestic corporate capital spending, dealers
said.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
rose 14.33 points or 0.08 percent to 17,679.02 by the lunch
break.


The broader TOPIX index of all first-section issues gained 3.44
points or 0.20 percent to 1,739.13.


Decliners were beating gainers 809 to 716, with 200 issues flat.


Volume was 906 million shares, down from 998 million on Tuesday
morning.


On Wall Street shares closed slightly higher Tuesday as the first
quarter earnings season began, but the positive lead was mostly
offset by a bigger-than- expected 5.2 percent fall in Japanese
machinery orders in February.


"Buying interest receded immediately after the release of the
poor machinery orders data," said Hiroichi Nishi, general manager
of equities information at Nikko Cordial Securities.


Recent losers in the real estate and utilities sectors led the
gainers this morning because of bargain-hunting, dealers said.


Mitsubishi Estate gained 50 yen or 1.41 percent to 3,590, Mitsui
Fudosan advanced 40 yen or 1.23 percent to 3,300 and Tokyo
Electric Power edged up 50 yen or 1.23 percent to 4,120.


Dealers said export-oriented stocks, such as auto makers and
technology issues, had received less support, despite the weaker
yen.


Elpida Memory shed 100 yen or 2.0 percent 4,900 after the
semiconductor maker said its profits for the fiscal fourth
quarter ended March 31 had been lower than a year before because
of a plunge in chip prices for computers.


In the auto sector, Nissan Motor slipped six yen or 0.47 percent
to 1,273, while Toyota Motor gained 40 yen or 0.53 percent to
7,520.


All Nippon Airways rose two yen or 0.43 percent to 472, despite
the airline having said that 15 percent of its domestic flights
were likely to be cancelled Wednesday because of a strike.

