

The number of morbidly obese Americans, those who weigh 100
pounds (45 kilograms) over normal weight, is rising much faster
than the rest of the obese population, said a study released
Tuesday.


The number of severely obese people rose 50 percent from 2000 to
2005, reaching three percent of the US population, or 6.8 million
adults, according to a study by the Rand Corporation.


That rise was twice as fast as the gains registered in the
moderate obesity, it said.


In order to be considered morbidly obese, a five-foot-ten-inch
(1.77 meter) man would have to weigh 300 pounds (136 kilograms)
or more, and a five-foot-four- inch (1.64 meter) woman would
weigh 250 pounds (113 kilograms) or more.


The study said to be morbidly obese means a person must have a
body mass index, which is a ratio of weight to height, of 40 or
higher. People with a BMI of 30 or more are obese, while BMIs of
25 to 29 are considered overweight.


"The proportion of Americans with a BMI of 50 or more increased
by 75 percent" between 2000 and 2005, it said. The proportion of
those with a BMI of 40 or more grew by 50 percent, while BMIs of
30 or more rose 24 percent.


The study was based on self-reported height and weight, which
tends to underestimate BMI, Rand said, warning of severe health
consequences if the trend continues.


"Among middle-aged adults, people with a BMI over 40 are expected
to have health costs that are double those experienced by normal
health peers," it said.


The gains came despite the rapid increase in gastric bypass, or
stomach stapling, types of surgeries. Thirteen thousand such
operations were performed in 1998 compared with 100,000 in 2003,
and an estimated 200,000 in 2006.


"The explosion in bariatric surgery has made no noticeable dent
in the trend of morbid obesity," said study author Roland Sturm.

