

Thousands of anti-presidential demonstrators gathered here
Wednesday in what the opposition hopes will force the latest
change of power in this unstable Central Asian state.


About 10,000 protestors, wearing the blue scarves of the United
Front for a Decent Future for Kyzystan, assembled early on the
central square or marched nearby, chanting a demand for President
Kurmanbek Bakiyev to step down.


Late Tuesday, Bakiyev offered constitutional changes curbing his
powers as a concession to his opponents.


However, United Front organiser Emil Aliyev called this "an
attempt to pull the wool over our eyes."


"Look at us: Our eyes are open," Aliyev told AFP, gesturing to
the central square where demonstrators had set up about 60 army
tents and 20 yurts, or traditional nomadic tents.


Organisers claim tens of thousands will attend the rally, which
was set to officially start at 2:00 pm local time (0800 GMT) and
continue until Bakiyev steps down.


"It's impossible to live here, it's impossible to find work.
Everyone who can leaves, especially young people," said
Zhyrgalbek Monolbayev, 29, standing in the shade of the yurt he
had helped assemble.


"Bakiyev's never going to leave, but we'll stay until he does,"
he said.


Bakiyev has struggled to contain opposition in parliament and on
the streets since he came to power in 2005 after a violent
uprising that drove out former veteran president Aksar Akayev.


His chief opponent is United Front leader and former prime
minister Felix Kulov, who has said only Bakiyev's resignation
would end the protests.


Interior Minister Bolot Nogoibayev said 4,000 police carrying
pistols loaded with rubber bullets would guard the rally.


The opposition has grown in recent months in this mountainous
Central Asian state, strategically located near Afghanistan and
host to US and Russian air bases.

