

The home of late country music legend Johnny Cash in Nashville,
Tennesee, has burned to the ground in a fire likely fuelled by
renovation materials, according to local media reports.


The huge lakeside house in Hendersonville, a suburb of the
country music capital, went up in flames Tuesday afternoon as it
was being extensively renovated by the new owner, Bee Gees star
Barry Gibb, said the Hendersonville Star News.


Pictures showed only the fireplace left standing of the mostly
wood-built, 18 room house with a round bedroom on Old Hickory
Lake, which Cash's wife June Carter called their "Camelot."


Since the 1960s it had served as a sanctuary for the much-
troubled "Man in Black" whose biggest hits include "Folsom Prison
Blues," "I Walk the Line," and "Ring of Fire."


According to the Nashville Tennesseean, the house was the scene
of numerous legendary jams with Cash, Bob Dylan, Kris
Kristofferson, and newer-generation country stars like Vince
Matthews and Larry Gatlin.


The memorabilia-cluttered home also featured in the emotional
2002 music video of an aged, frail Cash singing a cover version
of the Nine Inch Nails' song "Hurt."


Cash died at 71 in September 2003, four months after his wife
June, and the house was sold last year to Gibb for 2.5 million
dollars. He was refurbishing it to use as a vacation home.


"That house had a really strong scent of Johnny and June. It was
built on rock. It had to be a strong house to have survived right
there at the lake," neighbor Barbara Orbison, widow of Roy
Orbison, told the Tennessean.


"If you thought about Johnny and June, you thought about that
house. I guess it will be forever their house," she said.


Hendersonville Fire Chief Jamie Steele told the Star News the
fire was probably started when a spark from an unknown source
ignited wood preservative fumes.

