

Chinese share prices reached a new high Wednesday, adding 1.48
percent on continuing strong buying interest, with banking stocks
and steelmakers gaining ground, dealers said.


They said the bullish run will continue in the short term as more
companies will issue their annual and quarterly reports with
better results.


The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index, which covers A and
B-shares, closed up 50.93 points at 3,495.22. Turnover was still
heavy, setting a new record of 156.21 billion yuan (20.20 billion
US dollars).


The Shanghai A-share Index was up 54.06 points or 1.49 percent to
3,674.37 on turnover of 155.64 billion yuan and the Shenzhen
A-share Index was up 10.62 points or 1.11 percent at 971.39 on
turnover of 81.74 billion yuan.


"Buying interest remains very strong despite some profit-taking
seen in early afternoon trade, as institutional buying in blue
chips such as Sinopec boosted the indices," Xu Ming, an analyst
at Shiji Investment said.


Sinopec was up 0.75 yuan or 7.10 percent at 11.32.


Analysts said the upward momentum will be sustained on the back
of solid corporate earnings.


"In the short term, the strong momentum is likely to continue, as
more companies issue better-than-expected annual and quarterly
results in coming weeks," said Zeng Bo, an analyst at Changjiang
Securities.


Banking stocks were buoyed by a surge in China Merchants Bank,
dealers said.


China Merchants Bank was up 1.13 yuan or 6.28 percent at 19.13.
It said the Ministry of Finance and the State Administration of
Taxation have approved a 900 million yuan cut in its taxes.


Shanghai Pudong Development Bank was up 1.26 yuan or 4.30 percent
at 30.55.


Shenzhen Development Bank was up 1.0 yuan or 4.93 percent at
21.29. China Minsheng Banking Corp was up 0.32 yuan or 2.56
percent at 12.81.


Steelmakers continued to be boosted by hopes for strong earnings
this year, with Bengang Steel Plates up 0.78 yuan or 7.07 percent
at 11.82.


Jinan Iron Steel was up 1.36 yuan or 9.11 percent at 16.29.
Anyang Iron  Steel was up 0.62 yuan or 9.47 percent at 7.17.


However, Angang Steel gave up early gains and ended down 0.20
yuan or 1.14 percent at 17.35. It said 2006 net profit under
Chinese accounting standards more than tripled to 6.845 billion
yuan.


Huaneng Power International Inc was up 0.53 yuan or 5.47 percent
at 10.22. It said it generated 38.867 billion kilowatt hours of
electricity during the first quarter, up 7.61 percent year-on-
year.


Automakers were under pressure despite news that auto sales in
China rose 17.03 percent year-on-year to a record 847,200 units
in March.


Shanghai Automotive was down 0.27 yuan or 1.88 percent at 14.07.


Chongqing Changan Automobile, a partner of Ford Motor, was down
0.21 yuan or 1.32 percent at 15.67. Jiangxi Changhe Automobile
was down 0.07 yuan or 0.88 percent at 7.87.


The Shanghai B-share Index was down 1.39 points or 0.73 percent
to 188.01 on turnover of 568.75 million US dollars and the
Shenzhen B-share Index was down 3.87 points or 0.71 percent at
543.26 on turnover of 772.45 million Hong Kong dollars (99.93
million US dollars).

