

A group of major oil companies led by ExxonMobil Wednesday agreed
to share the costs of a feasibility study to exploit Papua New
Guinea's vast natural gas reserves.


The deal follows the decision to shelve an ambitious gas pipeline
project from Papua New Guinea to Australia in February.


Papua New Guinea based-oil and gas company Oil Search said it has
signed a cost- sharing agreement with ExxonMobil, Santos and
Japan's Nippon Oil to study a standalone liquified natural gas
project in the Hides gas field.


The study -- which will also cover the Angore and Juha gas fields
-- will evaluate the technical and commercial merits of
developing a 5.0 to 6.5 million tonne per annum LNG facility.


"This agreement represents another step forward in the
commercialisation of the large PNG gas resources through the
development of a world scale LNG industry in PNG," Oil Search
chief executive Peter Botten said.


"We see these studies as highly complementary to our other gas
commercialisation efforts in PNG."


The studies, which will determine the optimal LNG plant size and
preferred site location, will cost an estimated 60 million US
dollars over the next year.


They will also aim to agree fiscal terms with the Papua New
Guinea government.


Santos said the study, which was expected to be completed by the
end of the year, would investigate whether the first cargos could
be produced as early as 2012.


"Santos is committed to working with the PNG government,
ExxonMobil and the other project partners to progress LNG
development options in a timely manner, and in a way which will
maximise the value of the large contingent gas resources in PNG,"
managing director John Ellice-Flint said.


Santos shares rose one cent to close at 10.26 dollars and Oil
Search added five cents to end the day at 3.55 dollars on the
news.

