

The trial of six Lebanese accused of plotting to bomb trains in
Germany last July opened in Beirut on Wednesday, but was swiftly
adjourned after warrants were issued for two being tried in
absentia.


Minutes after the trial opened under tight security, judge Michel
Abu Arraj decided to adjourn the hearing until April 18 after the
defence said the Beirut criminal court was not entitled to try
the four suspects in Lebanese custody.


Defence attorney Fawaz Zakaria said the four should be tried in
northern Lebanon where they live and where they were arrested by
Lebanese authorities on September 4.


The four men in the dock are the suspected mastermind Jihad
Hamad, as well as Khaled al-Hajj Dib, Ayman Hawwa and Khalil
Bubu, judicial sources said.


The Beirut court also issued arrest warrants for Saddam al-Hajj
Dib, who remains at large, and his brother Yusef Mohammed al-Hajj
Dib, who is in custody in Germany. Both are being tried in
absentia.


Hamad has confessed under judicial interrogation to having placed
a suitcase containing explosives on a train in Germany last July,
Lebanese judicial sources said.


"The intention was not to kill people, but to avenge any harm
done to Muslims after the publication in Denmark of cartoons that
were harmful to the Prophet Mohammed," Hamad was quoted as
saying.


German federal police said the publication of cartoons of the
Prophet Mohammed in Western and some Arab media had been the
"detonator" which pushed the gang to organise a plot to bomb
German trains on July 31.


The plan failed when bombs concealed on two regional trains did
not explode because of faulty detonators.

