

Taiwan plans to purchase 30 advanced Apache attack helicopters
from the United States in the face of a mounting military threat
from rival China, a defence official said Wednesday.


The deal would require the approval of the United States, the
island's leading arms supplier despite a lack of diplomatic
relations between the two countries.


Beijing strongly objects to any arms sales from Washington to
Taiwan, which it regards as part of its territory awaiting
reunification, by force if necessary.


"The attack helicopter deal has been under evaluation," defence
ministry spokesman Major-general Wu Chi-fang told AFP, declining
to provide details on the sensitive issue.


The Taipei-based China Times reported Wednesday that defence
minister Lee Jye had approved two arms packages for an estimated
230 billion Taiwan dollars (6.95 billion US).


This includes 92.4 billion dollars for 30 Boeing attack
helicopters, along with the 140 billion-dollar acquisition of 90
transport helicopters to replace the army's ageing UH-1H fleet,
one of which crashed into a radio tower last week, killing all
eight army officers on board.


The defence ministry immediately ordered the grounding of all
remaining choppers of the same model for safety checks.


However, Wu said the reported proposal for transport helicopters
was still on the drawing board.


Major General Huang Yi-li from the defence ministry told
reporters Tuesday that the UH-1H fleet would be gradually retired
in 10 years beginning 2008.


Taiwan has been seeking more advanced weaponry amid Beijing's
repeated threats to invade.


In a wide-ranging interview with CNN in January, Taiwan's
President Chen Shui- bian accused China of provoking the island
by targeting it with nearly 1,000 missiles.


Tensions between Taiwan and China have escalated since the
independence-leaning leader was elected president in 2000. He was
narrowly re-elected in 2004.

