

A teenage girl from Cairo has died of bird flu, the health
ministry announced on Wednesday, bringing to 14 the number of
Egyptians who have succumbed to the deadly H5N1 strain of the
virus.


Marina Kamil Mikhail, a 15-year-old girl from the capital's
Shubra district, died in hospital on Tuesday, ministry spokesman
Abdel Rahman Shaheen told AFP.


She developed symptoms on March 30 and was admitted to hospital
in Cairo on April 5 where she was treated with the Tamiflu drug.


Several Egyptians, mainly children, had been infected with the
deadly bird flu virus in recent weeks across the country, but the
girl was the first not to survive an infection since February.


The case was also the first out of 34 infections reported in
humans since March 2006 to be detected in the capital.


Egypt's position on major bird migration routes and the
widespread practice of keeping domestic fowl close to living
quarters had meant rural regions north and south of the capital
were the hardest-hit.


Women and children have borne the brunt of the virus due to their
role in taking care of domestic fowl.


The government says it is conducting a vigorous campaign to
combat the spread of the virus through vaccinations and raising
awareness, but cases continue to appear.


With 14 deaths, Egypt is the world's most affected country after
Indonesia, Vietnam, Thailand and China.


It is also the world's hardest-hit non-Asian country and more
cases of avian influenza were detected in humans there in 2007
than in any other country.


Sixteen cases of the highly pathogenic virus were reported in
Egypt since the start of the year, including five in the first 10
days of April alone.


The World Health Organisation says the H5N1 strain has infected
almost 300 people and killed about 170 of them, mostly in
Southeast Asia, since 2003.

