

Japanese pop queen Ayumi Hamasaki upset locals in a Hong Kong
fishing village when she made a surprise visit for a seafood meal
with 22 aggressive bodyguards and flunkies, witnesses said.


Hamasaki, known as "Ayu" to her fans and the biggest-selling solo
pop star in Japan, was cocooned by her entourage who prevented
locals from getting near her table or fans from taking
photographs.


She popped over to Sok Kwu Wan village on Lamma Island, about two
miles (three kilometres) from downtown Hong Kong, on Sunday after
she had completed a series of sold-out concerts at the city's
Coliseum arena.


Contributors to local website forums complained that the
diminutive singer, whose unusually large round eyes and fair hair
are believed to have sparked a fad for eye-lid cosmetic surgery
among Japanese girls, had upset locals.


"The most famous J-pop star of all time was having a post concert
bite accompanied by no less than 12 bodyguards and another 10
strong entourage," wrote one anonymous subscriber to
Lamma.com.hk, the blog for island residents.


"(I) didn't have a phone to photo with and the table next to me
was prevented from taking pictures anyway," the writer added.


A spokesman for the Rainbow Restaurant, where Hamasaki ate,
confirmed the singer had dined at the eatery but wouldn't comment
on her entourage's behaviour.


"She had lots of bodyguards with her," he said. "She came over on
her own chartered boat."


According to her website, Hamasaki has had 27 number one hits in
Japan, more than any other solo artist.


Leafy Lamma Island's seafood restaurants regularly attract
celebrities. Most recently action star Jackie Chan and Philippine
President Gloria Arroyo were spotted eating there. Lamma native
"Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon" star Chow Yun-fat also makes
regular return trips.

