

James Blake, at No. 2 the highest seed in the draw after the
injury withdrawal of Andy Roddick, cruised into the second round
of the US Men's Clay Court Championships on Tuesday.


Blake defeated Italian Davide Sanguinetti 6-3, 6-0, while
defending champion Mardy Fish, the fourth seed, had to rally in
the third set to defeat Argentina's Martin Vassallo Arguello 5-7,
6-2, 7-5


Fish and Arguello combined for 13 service breaks during their
2hr, 31min match, including five in the final set.


Fish dropped his serve twice to give Vassallo Arguello a 3-0 lead
in the decisive set, but succeeded in winning the next three
games to get back on serve. The American captured the victory
with a break in the final game.


Fish next faces another Argentine, Mariano Zabaleta, a 6-0, 7-6
(10/8) winner over US teenager Ryan Sweeting.


Blake displayed a convincing return to his season opening form,
needing only 58 minutes to get past Sanguinetti.


After opening the season with a 11-2 record and two final
appearances, including his successful title defense in Sydney,
Blake had gone winless in back-to-back ATP matches going into the
Davis Cup quarter-finals last week.


Blake is the biggest attraction here in the wake of Roddick's
withdrawal. The top seed was due to begin his campaign Tuesday
but decided he was still suffering from a sore hamstring that
forced him to pull out of his quarter-final clash against
Britain's Andy Murray in Miami last month.


Roddick did, however, play in the United States' Davis Cup clash
against Spain at the weekend, beating Fernando Verdasco 7-6, 6-1,
6-4.


Roddick was replaced by lucky loser Alexander Peya, but the
Austrian's luck didn't last long as he fell 6-3, 6-2 to Spain's
Albert Montanes.


Austrian Jurgen Melzer, runner-u to Fish last year and seeded
fifth, defeated Germany's Rainer Schuettler 6-2, 3-6, 6-1.


American veteran Vince Spadea ousted seventh-seeded compatriot
Robby Ginepri 6-3, 3-6, 6-3.

