

North Korea will take initial steps to shut down its main nuclear
reactor within a day after it receives funds which had been
frozen in a Macau bank, a senior US official said Wednesday.


New Mexico state governor Bill Richardson said he was given the
assurance during his trip to Pyongyang this week at the head of a
US delegation.


"The North Korean government told us that with that (bank) issue
resolved, (it) would move promptly, within a day after receiving
the funds," Richardson told a press conference.


"And therefore, within that day (it would) invite the IAEA
inspectorate to Pyongyang to draft the terms for shutting down
the Yongbyon reactor."


North Korea expelled International Atomic Energy Agency
inspectors in late 2002 after the latest crisis over its nuclear
programme began.


Richardson said he believed the communist state is committed to a
six-nation February 13 agreement to disable its nuclear
programmes in exchange for one million tons of fuel oil or
equivalent aid and diplomatic benefits.


As a first step, it was supposed to shut and seal Yongbyon and
invite in IAEA inspectors by April 14 in return for an initial
50,000 ton oil shipment.


But the North refused to move until it receives the 25 million
dollars which had been frozen in more than 50 accounts in Banco
Delta Asia (BDA). The United States said Tuesday that Macau
authorities have agreed to unfreeze the funds.


"I'm optimistic about North Korea's willingness to return to the
six-party talks and shut down the Yongbyon reactor," Richardson
said.


"I believe they are committed to phase one and phase two of the
February 13 agreement."


Richardson said the next step would be the Macau bank notifying
North Korea that the funds are available for collection.


"That should happen late this afternoon, or tomorrow morning."


"So the BDA issue is resolved. We need to move forward," he said.

