

A team of French and Chilean climbers has tackled a tall problem:
whether the Americas' highest summit really is Aconcagua in
Argentina, or if the crown should actually go to Ojos del Salado
in Chile.


"Proving that it is the highest spot in Latin America could
change world climbing history," one of the French climbers told
AFP.


Marc Turrel, editor of Andes Magazine, said the stakes are high.
His hunch could land Ojos del Salado in the rarefied circuit of
the world's 7,000-meter (23,000-foot) peaks, attracting climbers
to Chile instead of Argentina.


"Aconcagua now receives nearly 8,000 tourists a year, while Ojos
del Salado sees only 400," he said.


His 11-person team has scaled Ojos del Salado with the latest
measuring tools and is awaiting the results.


Aconcagua is listed in the record books at 6,962 meters (22,841
feet), while Ojos del Salado comes in at 6,893 meters (22,614
feet).


The volcano, 1,000 kilometers (600 miles) north of Santiago near
the city of Copiapo on Argentina's border, has not erupted in 500
years.


In any case, Ojos del Salado, with its 38 craters, will remain
the tallest active volcano on the planet, and the highest summit
in Chile, the country's Geographic Military Institute says.


It was a retired Chilean lieutenant, Rene Fajardo, who triggered
the debate. In 1956, he led the first Chilean expedition to the
peak.


He recorded the height of Ojos del Salado at 7,080 meters (23,228
feet), which is 187 meters (3,280 feet) higher than its official
height -- and 118 meters (387 feet) taller than Aconcagua.


Fifty years later, the Franco-Chilean team reached Ojos del
Salado summit on March 23 with satellite-assisted equipment.


The mission, dubbed "In Search of the Roof of the Americas," used
the latest scientific measurements.


"We will have a very precise measurement," said engineer Omar
Lopez.


Turrel said preliminary indications are that the summit is above
6,900 meters (22,637 feet), although that must still be confirmed
by Chile's Military Geographic Institute.


Institute director Rodrigo Maturana refused to give a preliminary
result, before the official results ready next week. He did hint,
though: "There will be some difference," from the previous
measurement, which was barometric.

