

China's 20-year-old basketball sensation Yi Jianlian, touted as
the new Yao Ming, heads to the United States Wednesday to blaze
his own National Basketball Association trail.


The seven-foot (2.12-metre) power forward is expected to be a top
pick in June's NBA draft and has long been seen as the best
player to come out of China since Yao, the All-Star centre for
the Houston Rockets.


"I think he is 100 percent prepared for the NBA. Take a look at
his numbers over four years and you'll see he has made a dramatic
improvement," China Basketball Association chief Li Yuanwei told
the China Daily.


"I am very confident he will find his way very soon in the United
States."


Yi said he wanted to carve out his own NBA path, and not follow
in the footsteps of Yao or Wang Zhizhi, the first Chinese player
to join the NBA in 2001.


"I want to walk my own road," he said. "The NBA is my dream place
so this is obviously the biggest challenge of my life.


"But I am not going to be the next Yao Ming or Wang Zhizhi. I
want to do it my way."


Eight NBA executives and scouts came to China last month to watch
Yi's Guangdong Tigers lose to Wang's Bayi Rockets in the CBA
finals.


The defeat was a huge blow for Yi -- who described it as the
biggest disappointment of his life.


"I want to use my NBA career as compensation for the loss. I
really hope to shrug it off as soon as possible," he said.


The young Chinese star, already a massive marketing draw here,
trained in the United States in 2002 and is heading first to Los
Angeles Wednesday where he will join a pre-draft training camp.


"I will need some time to get used to the intensity of the games
in the NBA," he said.


"I don't think I will have any trouble integrating into American
society. I feel quite comfortable as my parents will be there
during my rookie year."

