

An international science journal has deleted a South Korean paper
on wolf cloning from its website pending an investigation into
incorrect data.


Cloning and Stem Cells, in a message seen Wednesday on its
website, said the authors have requested corrections. The journal
said it would also await the outcome of an investigation into the
research by Seoul National University (SNU).


An SNU team led by Lee Byung-Chun and Shin Nam-Shik announced on
March 26 it had created the world's first cloned wolves in
October 2005 -- two females named Snuwolf and Snuwolffy.


But the research has been questioned after it was found that the
team gave incorrect details in a table analysing the
mitochondrial DNA sequence of the wolves and of their surrogate
mother dogs.


There was also a mistake in calculating the success rate of the
team's past attempts to clone dogs. This understated the success
rate and made the apparent technical progress the team had made
since then more impressive.


Lee, who has said both mistakes were inadvertent, was a leading
member of the team led by now-disgraced scientist Hwang Woo-Suk
which produced the world's first cloned dog in early 2005.


A university panel has launched a preliminary probe into the
research on wolves and SNU has also asked outside experts to
verify samples.


SNU was hard hit by the scandal over Hwang, who was hailed as a
national hero until the university's inquiry ruled that some of
his work on cloning embryonic human stem cells was fake.


He is now on trial for fraud, embezzlement, ethical breaches and
other charges but has insisted he can still prove he created the
first cloned human stem cells.


The work of his team in creating the world's first cloned dog,
named Snuppy (Seoul National University puppy), has been verified
by SNU and other authorities.

