

Japan called Wednesday for North Korea to move quickly to shut
down a nuclear facility even though it looked set to miss this
week's deadline to do so under an international disarmament deal.


North Korea had pledged to start shutting down a key nuclear
facility and allow UN inspectors in by Saturday, the first key
deadline in a breakthrough six- nation deal on Pyongyang's
nuclear programmes.


But North Korea had refused to budge until it received funds
frozen at Macau's Banco Delta Asia. The United States said
Tuesday it had reached a breakthrough to send the 25 million
dollars to Pyongyang.


"Practically speaking, it is getting difficult for North Korea to
meet the deadline as they are still discussing the Banco Delta
Asia issue with just three days remaining before the deadline,"
Japanese Foreign Minister Taro Aso said.


"In any case, it is important to implement the agreement quite
early and we will continue our efforts on that after the 60-day
period," Aso said in parliament, referring to the deadline period
under the February 13 deal.


Chief government spokesman Yasuhisa Shiozaki called on North
Korea specifically to make good on its promises to close the
Yongbyon nuclear facility.


"It is important that North Korea show a commitment to implement
the initial steps," Shiozaki told a news conference.


NBC News reported that North Korea told a visiting US delegation
it would miss Saturday's deadline but start shutting down the
Yongbyon reactor within 30 days.


Japan has taken the hardest line in the six-nation talks, which
also include China, the two Koreas, Russia and the United States.


Japan has refused to fund the nuclear deal and Tuesday extended
sweeping sanctions against North Korea to press it on a
domestically sensitive row over its past kidnappings of Japanese
nationals.

