

Japanese share prices closed almost flat Wednesday as worries
about domestic corporate capital spending offset a positive lead
from Wall Street, dealers said.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
rose 5.38 points or 0.03 percent to finish at 17,670.07.


The broader TOPIX index of all first-section issues rose 3.32
points or 0.19 percent to close at 1,739.01.


Decliners beat gainers 934 to 639, with 154 issues flat.


Volume slipped to 1.81 billion shares from 1.99 billion on
Tuesday.


On Wall Street shares closed slightly higher Tuesday as the first
quarter earnings season began, but dealers in Tokyo remained
cautious after a bigger- than-expected 5.2 percent fall in
Japanese machinery orders in February.


"Overall trade was lethargic, and investors adopted a wait-and-
see stance, as they would like to see earnings results in the US
and Japan," said Hideyuki Suzuki, a strategist at SBI Securities.


The approach of the fixing of the special quotation for April
stock index options on Friday also deterred investors from buying
actively as it can bring volatile trading, dealers said.


"As the special quotation is slated for this Friday, the market
is expected to stay within narrow ranges for the rest of this
week," said Suzuki.


Worries that the yen might come into focus at this Friday's
meeting of Group of Seven finance chiefs also weighed on
sentiment given the positive influence of the currency's weakness
on Japanese exporter earnings, dealers said.


Recent losers in the real estate and utilities sectors led the
gainers this morning because of bargain-hunting, dealers said.


Nomura Real Estate rose 30 yen or 0.7 percent to 4,020,
Mitsubishi Estate gained 10 yen or 0.28 percent to 3,550 and
Mitsui Fudosan advanced 20 yen or 0.61 percent to 3,280.


Tokyo Electric Power edged up 30 yen or 0.7 percent to 4,100 and
Kansai Electric Power was 40 yen or 1.2 percent higher at 3,430.


TDK was 190 yen or 1.8 percent higher at 10,670 after a newspaper
reported that the manufacturer of electronics parts was likely to
report a 45 percent jump in net profits to a record high for the
fiscal year just ended.


Elpida Memory shed 110 yen or 2.2 percent 4,890 after the
semiconductor maker said its profits for the fiscal fourth
quarter ended March 31 had been lower than a year before because
of a plunge in chip prices for computers.


On the foreign exchange market, the dollar edged up to 119.17 yen
in late Tokyo trade from 119.02 late on Tuesday in New York.


The euro slipped to 1.3423 dollars from 1.3428 and to 159.91 yen
after 159.97, easing back from Tuesday's record high of 160.12.

