

A senior US lawmaker who joined a controversial trip to Syria
last week said he is willing to visit Iran to open a dialogue
with President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, the San Francisco Chronicle
reported Wednesday.


Representative Tom Lantos, who accompanied House of
Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi to meet Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad against strong White House objections, said he
thought Pelosi might also be willing to make a trip to Tehran.


"Speaking just for myself, I would be ready to get on a plane
tomorrow morning," Lantos said at a press conference in San
Francisco Tuesday, the Chronicle reported on its website.


"Because however objectionable, unfair and inaccurate many of
(Ahmadinejad's) statements are, it is important that we have a
dialogue with him," Lantos said.


"Speaking for myself, I'm ready to go -- and knowing the speaker,
I think that she might be."


Pelosi, also at the press conference, did not dispute Lantos but
also did not say she would want to go to Iran, noting that
Ahmadinejad has made statements "so repulsive that they are
outside the circle of civilized human behavior."


But she also praised Lantos, the chairman of the important House
Foreign Affairs Committee, as having brought "great experience,
knowledge and judgment" to their trip to Syria, Israel, the
Palestinian Territories and Saudi Arabia.


The trip stirred controversy, with President George W. Bush and
other administration officials lashing out at Pelosi for
undermining the government's tough line against Assad's regime,
which the United States accuses of supporting terrorism.


A trip to Iran would likely draw similar attacks, as Washington
has steadfastly resisted bilateral talks with Tehran, with which
it severed official relations in 1980.


Lantos said he has been seeking a visa to Iran for more than a
decade.

