

East Timor's landmark presidential election will go to a runoff
with the ruling Fretilin party's Francisco Guterres facing one
other challenger, the national election commission said
Wednesday.


"Guterres is already cleared for the second round," Faustino
Cardoso, the commission's president, told AFP.


It was not immediately clear which of two other main challengers
will face Guterres in the May 8 runoff.


Popularly known as Lu-Olo, Guterres had a 28.3 percent share with
354,033 votes counted after Monday's presidential poll, the first
since impoverished East Timor achieved independence in 2002.


Nobel laureate Jose Ramos-Horta, the tiny country's current prime
minister, was in second place with 22.5 percent, Cardoso said,
while the candidate from the opposition Democrat Party, Fernando
"Lasama" de Araujo, won 18.6 percent.


The runoff is needed as no candidate won more than 50 percent in
the first round.


Observers said Monday's election was generally open, orderly and
peaceful after fears that the former Portuguese colony's violent
past heralded election unrest.


Ramos-Horta expressed serious misgivings Wednesday, saying there
had been many allegations of impropriety during the poll, but
pledged not to challenge the result if he failed to make the
runoff.


"I believe that, whatever the result, we must all honour it and
work toward a peaceful acceptance of the first ballot."


Eight candidates had stood to replace incumbent president Xanana
Gusmao, a charismatic former guerrilla leader who did not seek
re-election and wants to become prime minister, which in East
Timor is a more powerful position.


The election followed a turbulent year in East Timor. Violence
erupted in April and May last year after the prime minister at
the time, Fretilin's Mari Alkatiri, dismissed hundreds of army
deserters.


Firefights subsequently broke out between factions of the
military as well as between the army and police, and degenerated
into gang violence.

