

Wu Poh-hsiung was sworn in Wednesday as chairman of Taiwan's main
opposition Kuomintang, vowing to lead the party to victory in the
upcoming legislative and presidential elections.


"I will coordinate the nomination of legislative candidates...
and I will try my best to bring forth a presidential ticket that
is most likely to win," Wu said.


Wu, 67, won a landslide victory in Saturday's Kuomintang (KMT)
leadership by- election to replace Ma Ying-jeou, who resigned as
party chairman in February after he was indicted on corruption
charges.


"Taiwan has suffered a lot in the past seven years and not only
the ruling party should take the responsibility but also the
KMT... because we did not work hard enough nor stand united
strong enough," Wu said.


Wu served as Taipei mayor, interior minister and presidential
secretary general when the KMT was the ruling party.


As party chief, his main tasks are to win the December
parliamentary elections and the March presidential vote next
year.


A divided KMT lost its 51-year grip on power to Chen Shui-bian
from the independence-leaning Democratic Progressive Party (DPP)
in 2000. Chen was narrowly reelected in 2004.


Ma, a former graft-buster, was charged with allegedly misusing
more than 11 million Taiwan dollars (333,330 US) in expense
accounts as Taipei mayor, an accusation he categorically denied
when he resigned.


His denial and announcement that he would stand for president
gave an unexpected boost to his popularity.


Parliamentary speaker Wang Jin-pyng is considered the most likely
candidate to compete against Ma for the party's nomination for
presidency, but he has yet to reveal his plans.


Ma was elected KMT chairman in July 2005 and oversaw the party's
landslide victory in local government chief elections five months
later.

