

Emergency supplies have reached all the areas devastated by last
week's earthquake and tsunami in the western Solomon Islands,
officials said Tuesday.


"What we don't know is the exact quantity of how much aid has
reached each specific village and person. We'll get that
information soon," said Julian Makaa of the National Disaster
Management Office.


Many residents of outlying in areas in the region, which includes
scores of islands and villages reachable only by small boats,
have complained about the slow pace at which supplies were
distributed after last Monday's disaster.


Prime Minister Mannaseh Sogavare has apologised for the delay in
reaching some victims of the 8.0 earthquake and tsunami, which
has so far left 40 people confirmed dead and around 24 reported
missing.


He added the government had done its best to meet the needs of
those affected by the tsunami.


A statement from the UN Disaster Assessment and Coordination
(UNDAC) team said there was adequate food in affected
communities. But many food growing areas were damaged by the
waves or landslides.


"Most of the communities are still afraid of accessing their
fields due to fear of landslides and therefore rely on food
supplies provided by relief agencies," it said.


Up to 7,000 people were displaced by the disaster, with many
afraid to return from hill camps to lowland homes because of
fears of another tsunami.


Sogavare said the government would look at measures to avoid a
repeat of the devastation, including resettling people living on
low-lying atolls and coastlines.


Aid workers in the town of Gizo, the centre for the relief
operation and one of the worst-affected areas, said the focus of
the aid effort was starting to move to recovery and
rehabilitation.


Villagers want tools so they can build shelters after spending
days sleeping in the open or under tarpaulins.

