

Iran on Wednesday showed footage of the wounds of an Iranian
diplomat released after two months in captivity in Iraq, saying
the pictures showed he had been tortured by US forces.


"The United States, whose officials make claims about human
rights, drilled holes into the legs of Jalal Sharafi and there
were signs of damage to his nose and neck," state television
said.


Television showed footage of Sharafi in hospital, his feet badly
bruised and body covered by sensors, as he was visited by the
head of the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC)
delegation in Iran, Peter Stocker.


Iraq's ambassador to Iran, Mohammed Majid al-Sheikh, was also
present.


Washington has denied any role in the detention of Sharafi, who
was freed on April 3 amid the standoff between London and Tehran
over the captured British sailors who were released the next day.


However Stocker denied claims by state television that the ICRC
had confirmed after the meeting with the diplomat that Sharafi,
second secretary at the Iranian embassy in Baghdad, had been
tortured.


"I saw wounds, on the back and feet, which were several weeks old
and I could see that they were very serious," he told AFP. "But
in these circumstances we cannot confirm how these wounds were
carried out."


Iranian television said the footage "showed that after the
Iranian diplomat was kidnapped in Baghdad by American forces, he
was beaten and savagely tortured."


Sharafi, who was abducted outside a branch of the Iranian state-
owned Bank Melli on February 4, said after his return to Tehran
that he was tortured "day and night" and interrogated by CIA
officials.

