

Japan's current account surplus grew unexpectedly in February to
the second highest level on record thanks to brisk exports and
returns on overseas investments, the government said Wednesday.


The world's second-largest economy saw a 4.9 percent rise in the
current account, the broadest measure of trade in goods and
services, to 2.418 trillion yen (20.3 billion dollars), the
finance ministry reported.


That was just short of the surplus of 2.422 trillion yen
registered in March 2006, which was the highest since comparable
records began in 1985.


The market had expected a smaller surplus of about 2.281 trillion
yen after surpluses of 1.194 trillion in January and 2.305
trillion in February of last year.


Historically, Japan has run a large surplus in its current
account, which measures the flow of goods, services and
investment income.


The trade account alone registered a surplus of 1.119 trillion
yen, up 3.6 percent from a year earlier, as exports climbed 9.0
percent to about 6.106 trillion yen while imports rose 10.3
percent to 4.988 trillion.


Japan is a major buyer of crude oil from the Middle East and high
energy prices have been driving up the value of its imports in
recent months, although in February crude oil imports declined
12.0 percent, the ministry said.


Another major contributor to the improvement in the current
account was the income account surplus, which grew 7.0 percent to
1.463 trillion yen thanks to solid returns on overseas
investments as well as repatriated profits.


The services account deficit, however, widened to 70.1 billion
yen from 68.9 billion yen a year earlier.


The capital and financial account, which measures international
fund flows, registered an outflow of 1.930 trillion yen for the
month, against an outflow of 1.511 trillion a year earlier.

