

A Buddhist woman was shot dead and her body set ablaze early
Wednesday in Thailand's restive Muslim-majority south, police
said, as the country's junta leader began a visit to the region.


The 26-year-old's body was burned beyond recognition after she
was killed while on her way to work on the outskirts of Yala
town, police said.


"It's the work of the same group of militants who are active in
this predominantly Muslim village," police said.


The province of Yala has seen a surge in attacks this year, with
10 people killed on Monday alone. Four of them were shot dead
while returning from the burial of a bombing victim.


More than 2,000 people have been killed in three years of unrest
in the southern region along the border with Malaysia.


Thailand's junta leader, General Sonthi Boonyaratglin travelled
to nearby Pattani province Wednesday for a two-day visit to meet
with Muslim religious leaders as well as local government and
military chiefs.


Sonthi told reporters as he arrived in Pattani that the
insurgents' attacks had become more lethal, even as the number of
incidents had fallen.


"The attacks have decreased in number, but the militants have
adjusted their strategies to be more violent and brutal in order
to terrify people," he said.


Sonthi said he feared the Islamic separatists were trying to
spark a broader communal conflict, and urged both Buddhists and
Muslims to work to reduce tensions between the faiths.


"Don't fall into their trap. Villagers must be patient. The
militants want to create a sectarian war," he said.


Sonthi is the first Muslim to head the army in mainly Buddhist
Thailand. After he seized power in a coup in September, he
installed a government that promptly unveiled a raft of peace
measures for the region.


But the violence has escalated, and the government remains
uncertain who exactly is behind the attacks. No one has claimed
responsibility for any of the attacks or made any specific
demands of the government.

