

China, the world's largest producer and consumer of coal, aims to
cut its reliance on the polluting energy source while shifting
more to natural gas by 2010, state press reported Wednesday.


China plans to reduce the share of coal in energy consumption to
66.1 percent by 2010 from around 69 percent in 2005, the China
Daily reported, citing a plan from the state economic planning
body.


"Currently, coal accounts for 69 percent of China's primary
energy consumption, 42 percentage points higher than the world's
average level," said a plan posted on website of the National
Development and Reform Commission.


It said the extensive use of coal had "brought lots of
environmental and social problems, posing severe challenges to
the sustainable development of the economy and society."


Meanwhile, the share of natural gas in energy consumption will be
increased by 2.5 percentage points to 20.5 percent during the
five years until 2010, it said.


China targets natural gas production of 92 billion cubic metres
(3.22 trillion cubic feet) and crude oil production of 193
million tonnes in 2010, according to the five-year plan outlining
energy development until 2010.


China will use new technologies and increase investment and
accelerate offshore exploration to achieve the targets, the plan
said, without elaborating.


It also said China will step up development of renewable energy
such as nuclear energy and hydropower to encourage environmental
protection.


China has a mixed record in changing its energy consumption
habits, highlighted in a policy to cut energy consumption per
unit of gross domestic product by 20 percent and pollution by 10
percent by 2010 from levels in 2005.


But the project got off to a bad start, with Chinese officials
admitting they came nowhere near reaching the target for 2006.


Energy consumption per unit of GDP fell by just 1.23 percent last
year, instead of four percent as planned.

