

The State Department renewed on Tuesday its "Worldwide Caution"
alerting US citizens to the continuing threat of "terrorist
actions and violence" against Americans and US interests
overseas.


The global alert, which has been renewed regularly since first
being issued in December 1999, said the State Department "remains
concerned about the continued threat of terrorist attacks,
demonstrations and other violent actions against US citizens and
interests overseas."


Current information "suggests that Al-Qaeda and affiliated
organizations continue to plan terrorist attacks against US
interests in multiple regions, including Europe, Asia, Africa and
the Middle East," it said.


"These attacks may employ a wide variety of tactics to include
assassinations, kidnappings, hijackings and bombings."


US officials described the update as routine and unrelated to any
new intelligence concerning possible plots against US nationals
or interests.


"There is no new intelligence that I'm aware of that led to us
issuing this," said State Department spokeswoman Leslie Phillips.
"We are just renewing our warning."


The previous caution was issued in October and the updated
version included references to "ongoing events in Iraq and
elsewhere in the Middle East (that) have resulted in
demonstrations and associated violence in several countries."


It also referred to "bomb attacks targeting buses carrying
foreign workers in March 2007 and December 2006 in Algeria" to
illustrate "how terrorists exploit vulnerabilities associated
with soft targets."


Phillips said Wednesday's caution was aimed particularly to warn
US travellers and residents overseas of the potential for
terrorists to strike American targets and public transportation
systems' worldwide.

