

Israeli Defence Minister Amir Peretz has ordered the eviction of
Jewish settlers occupying a house in the flashpoint West Bank
town of Hebron, his office said Wednesday.


Peretz instructed the army's civil administration in the West
Bank "to evict the settlers who entered the building in Hebron
without permission," it said in a statement.


Security chiefs were meeting on Wednesday to review the details
of the clearing of the disputed building, which officials fear
could spark violent clashes with right-wing activists in the
town.


A senior defence ministry official told AFP the evacuation may
take place as early as next week.


Scores of hardline settlers took over the three-storey building
on a road linking Hebron to the Jewish settlement of Kiryat Arba
on March 19, claiming that they had bought it, but this was
denied by the Palestinian owners.


The defence minister's decision follows a legal assessment by
attorney general Menachem Mazuz, who said the building was
unlawfully populated, the statement said.


Trade and Infrastructure Minister Eli Yishai of the ultra-
Orthodox Shas party, who planned to visit the house on Wednesday,
said: "If the house was bought legally it would be unthinkable to
evacuate these people."


Hebron has long been a flashpoint between Palestinians and
Israelis. Under an agreement with the Palestinian Authority,
Israel evacuated 80 percent of Hebron in 1997, leaving a
settlement of several hundred Jewish settlers, protected by its
soldiers, around the Tomb of the Patriarchs, a site holy to both
Jews and Muslims.

