

Russian-born pianist and conductor Vladimir Ashkenazy was named
Wednesday as the next conductor of Australia's leading orchestra,
the Sydney Symphony.


Ashkenazy, who has worked with the Sydney Opera House-based
ensemble on several occasions and has strong links with
Australia, will be the orchestra's principal conductor and
artistic advisor for three years from 2009.


"We're very excited, I think it is a fantastic appointment for
the orchestra," Sydney Symphony chairman David Maloney said.


"We haven't really had aspirations to get somebody of Ashkenazy's
standing."


Ashkenazy, who defected from the Soviet Union in 1963 and now has
Icelandic citizenship, has worked with leading orchestras in
Europe and the United States including London's Royal
Philharmonic and the San Francisco Symphony.


"I dare to say that it's one of the most prestigious appointments
in Australia ever, he is certainly a door opener," said Wolfgang
Fink, the orchestra's artistic operations director.


"It will help us to position the orchestra internationally on a
very high level."


Ashkenazy will succeed chief conductor Gianluigi Gelmetti who
announced last year he would not renew his contract, which
expires at the end of 2008.


The appointment will see 69-year-old Ashkenazy, who is music
director of Tokyo's NHK Symphony Orchestra and the European Union
Youth Orchestra, spend at least eight weeks in Australia each
year.


The renowned interpreter of Russian maestro Rachmaninov has long
had a warm regard for Australia, in part because of his
friendship with Sydney microsurgeon Earl Owen.


The pair became friends in the 1960s when they were both studying
music in London.


That friendship led to Owen operating on Ashkenazy's nine-year-
old son in 1979 after the child was badly injured in a
waterskiing accident. The 10-hour operation saved the boy's leg.

