

A virus that has struck Hong Kong's race horses poses no threat
to the city hosting equestrian events for the 2008 Olympic Games,
organisers said Wednesday.


Hong Kong was selected to host the show-jumping and eventing
competitions for the Beijing Games as China cannot guarantee the
health of competing horses.


But the spread of a potentially serious outbreak of equine herpes
among race horses at the city's Sha Tin stables had led to
speculation Hong Kong would have problems containing diseases
during the Olympics.


"We have every confidence in the Hong Kong Jockey Club's vet and
its quarantine procedures," said a spokeswoman for the company
organising Hong Kong's Olympic events.


The Jockey Club, which oversees racing in Hong Kong, will handle
much of the Olympic events here, including monitoring of the
horses' health.


"The club is very experienced in handling horses and monitoring
and controlling diseases," the spokeswoman added. "The Olympic
horses will, nevertheless, be isolated from the local racing
horses."


Equine herpes left 132 race horses with mild fevers, swollen legs
and blood abnormalities, government tests over the past three
months found.


The club said the illnesses had passed quickly in almost all
horses and most were up and running again within days. It said it
believed the illness had been caused by changeable weather.


Racing is the most popular sport in the city, with billions of
Hong Kong dollars (hundreds of millions US) wagered on the horses
every week.


The Jockey Club said it prided itself on its infectious disease
screening procedures, which were toughened up following an
outbreak of equine flu in 1992. That had forced the cancellation
of part of the racing season.


The herpes outbreak follows a similar virus spread among a
handful of horses in February, which officials said came close to
shutting down the city's race programme.

