

North Korea told a visiting US delegation that it would miss
Saturday's deadline to begin shutting down its main nuclear
reactor but could start within 30 days, NBC News reported
Wednesday.


The US delegation believes it convinced the Stalinist regime it
would soon receive funds in a frozen Macau bank account, which
had been an obstacle to North Korea's agreement to begin
dismantling its nuclear weapons program, the US television
network said.


The promise led North Korean nuclear negotiator Kim Kye-gwan to
tell the US delegation that it could start closing the Yongbyon
nuclear reactor and allow UN atomic inspectors back in within 30
days, NBC said.


Former UN ambassador Bill Richardson, who led the US delegation
in Pyongyang, will announce the agreement Wednesday in Seoul when
he meets there with the US pointman on North Korea negotiations,
Christopher Hill, NBC said.


US State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said earlier Tuesday
that Macau's monetary authority had agreed to open the accounts
to their owners.


In the first phase of a six-country agreement reached in
February, Pyongyang had agreed to shut down the Yongbyon nuclear
reactor by this Saturday in exchange for badly needed fuel oil.


However, North Korea had refused to take the key step until it
received 25 million dollars in funds frozen in the Banco Delta
Asia (BDA) in Macau, after Washington blacklisted the bank for
allegedly laundering illicit funds.

