

Clashes between Ethiopian forces and Islamist fighters shattered
a ceasefire in the Somali capital on Wednesday and raised fears
among residents of more serious unrest.


There was sporadic gunfire across the city and heavy mortar
shells around a stadium in southern Mogadishu, where the two
sides recently fought the worst battles seen in the Somali
capital in 15 years, which left about 1,000 dead.


There were no details of casualties from the new fighting but the
overnight clashes shattered a week-old ceasefire announced by
elders from Mogadishu's dominant Hawiye clan after talks with
Ethiopian military commanders.


The resumption of clashes that came hours after the Ethiopian
army refused to meet Hawiye elders for routine peace negotiations
unless insurgent commanders were present.


"We are very worried and it is clear that the shaky ceasefire has
broken because heavy fighting started overnight," said Abdulkadir
Mohamed, a resident in Towfiq in south Mogadishu.


"I was sleeping when heavy gunfire broke out. Everyone woke up
and fled from the area because stray bullets were hitting
everywhere," he added.


Mohamed Hussein Wehliye, a resident near the stadium area, said
"We ask the warring sides to stop the fighting because it will
increase the casualties and only bring damage."


Last month's heavy fighting erupted when Ethiopian forces
launched a crackdown on suspected insurgents in the Somali
capital.


Somalia has lacked an effective central government since the
ousting of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre in 1991 touched off a
power struggle that exploded into inter-clan warfare.


Tensions have risen again since Ethiopian forces helped the UN-
backed transitional government to oust Islamists from Mogadishu
at the start of the year. The Islamists have since vowed a
guerrilla war against the Ethiopians.

