

A list of prisoners which Hamas wants freed in exchange for an
Israeli serviceman does not include jailed Palestinian militant
leader Marwan Barghuti, an Israeli minister said on Wednesday.


"Marwan Barghuti's name does not appear on the list" which
Egyptian mediators handed to Israel last week, Housing Minister
and member of the powerful security cabinet Meir Sheetrit told
public radio.


Barghuti, the West Bank leader of president Mahmud Abbas's
secular Fatah party who is widely revered by Palestinians as the
mastermind of their second uprising or intifada, is serving five
life sentences for planning attacks against Israelis.


On Tuesday, Prime Minister Ehud Olmert convened a first meeting
with the heads of the country's security establishment to discuss
the list, over which  Israel expressed "disappointment and
reservations."


The fate of Corporal Gilad Shalit, who was captured on June 25
when militants, including the armed wing of Hamas, tunnelled out
of Gaza and attacked an army border post, has hampered the
resumption of peace talks.


His seizure sparked a massive Israeli air and ground offensive
against the Gaza Strip that killed some 400 Palestinians before a
November ceasefire came into force.


Olmert will convene the security cabinet next Sunday to set
Israel's criteria for clearing prisoners for release, although
Israel has said it would not free Barghuti or other prisoners
responsible for killing Israelis.


A source close to the Palestinian government told AFP the list,
which contained the names of 450 prisoners, included both
Barghuti and Ahmed Saadat, the leader of a militant group which
assassinated an Israeli minister in 2001.


Palestinian prime minister Ismail Haniya said on Tuesday that the
ball was in Israel's court.


"We are serious in our will to proceed with an exchange and we
hope that negotiations will lead to the freeing of our detainees
from the prisons of the Israeli occupier," Haniya told reporters.

