

Four leading Muslim organisations in Germany banded together
Wednesday to form an umbrella group to facilitate the community's
dealings with the government.


Rafet Ozturk of the Turkish Islamic Union for Religious Affairs
(DITIB) said the group had joined forces with the Central Council
of Muslims, the Islamic Council and the Association of Islamic
Cultural Centres.


He said the groups would remain independent but attempt to find
common positions on issues affecting the community including
immigration, integration and extremism under the auspices of the
new Muslim Coordination Council.


"We want to put ourselves to the test on whether we can take
decisions together," Ozturk said.


More than 3.2 million Muslims live in Germany, of which about
300,000 are members of Islamic organisations.


About 2.4 million Turks or people of Turkish descent, many of
them descendents of "guest workers" invited to Germany in the
1960s and 1970s, live in the country, while around 200,000 of
Germany's Muslims came from North Africa.


There are about 100,000 Iranians in the community and 100,000
Muslims from former Yugoslavia according to official estimates.


DITIB, a Sunni organisation, is the largest group with about
130,000 members.


Germany's left-right government called a meeting in September,
the first of its kind, bringing together political leaders and
Muslim community representatives.


Interior Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble of Chancellor Angela
Merkel's conservative Christian Democrats had complained that the
Muslim community's internal divisions made it difficult to find
an interlocutor on pressing issues.


Schaeuble said at the September gathering that he hoped the
organisations and the government could begin a two-year dialogue
addressing integration, Islamic extremism, Islamic religious
instruction in schools and the training of imams.

