

China said Wednesday a WTO complaint lodged by the United States
against it for alleged copyright abuse was inconsistent with a
consensus between the two countries.


"The US move... is inconsistent with the consensus reached by
leaders of the two countries to promote bilateral trade relations
and to settle trade disputes appropriately," ministry spokesman
Wang Xinpei told reporters.


"It will seriously damage the cooperation (on intellectual
property rights protection) that the two parties have built up,"
he said.


He was not referring to a specific agreement reached between
China and the United States, but rather a general agreement about
the spirit in which the two sides were addressing disputes.


The United States formally filed a complaint on copyright
violations in China to the World Trade Organisation on Tuesday as
trade officials claimed piracy and counterfeiting levels remained
"unacceptably high" in China.


It also lodged a separate case at the Geneva-based trade body on
the same day accusing China of restricting the distribution of
foreign music, films and books, further sharpening tensions with
the booming Asian giant.


However, Wang said China has undertaken serious steps to combat
copyright abuse, including an action plan for this year's
campaign that adopts more than 280 measures.


"Trade frictions should be solved through friendly consultations
and the parties should respect each others' different development
stages," he said.


"We can choose the ways of settling trade frictions even though
they are unavoidable."

