

Australian share prices closed flat Wednesday as late profit-
taking weighed on positive investor sentiment, dealers said.


The benchmark SP/ASX 200 closed down 1.6 points or 0.03 percent
at 6,151.4, while the broader All Ordinaries index matched
Tuesday's record close of 6,136.1.


A total of 1.88 billion shares worth 6.4 billion dollars (5.3
billion US) were traded, with rises outnumbering falls 646 to 602
and 358 stocks unchanged.


Reynolds and Co private client advisor Michael Heffernan said
solid buying of mining giants BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto kept the
market supported as it flirted with deeper negative territory
around midday.


Heffernan also noted the banks were firmer with investors chasing
value ahead of the upcoming earnings reports.


"Good buying with good volumes. We could be in for a rally for
the next couple weeks at least," he said.


Index leading resources BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto followed the
strong gains in their London-listed stocks due to higher base
metal prices, with BHP up 0.12 to 30.60 dollars while Rio Tinto
jumped 1.72 or 2.10 percent to 83.50.


Retailer Coles Group continued to rise above the 16.47 dollars
per share takeover offer by Wesfarmers last week which a private
equity consortium led by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts (KKR) said on
Tuesday it is likely to trump.


Coles shares advanced 0.05 to end at 17.38 but Wesfarmers fell
0.13 to 39.01.


Uranium explorer Summit Resources jumped after entering into a
strategic alliance with French nuclear group Areva, which plans
to take a nine percent shareholding for 121.1 million dollars in
the Australian company.


Summit shares surged 0.65 or 12.62 percent to close at 5.80.


National Australia Bank shares rose 0.24 to close at 42.23, ANZ
climbed 0.18 to 30.15 but Commonwealth Bank fell 0.09 to 51.20
and Westpac slipped 0.05 to 26.35.


News Corp shed 0.13 to 30.36 and its non-voting stock lost 0.15
to 28.44.


Telstra fell 0.04 to 4.81, its T3 receipts were also down 0.04 at
3.35 while SingTel eased 0.02 to 2.75.


Alumina lost 0.08 to 7.54 despite its joint venture partner Alcoa
Inc reporting a solid March quarter earnings report overnight.


Woodside was down 0.24 at 38.88, Santos eased 0.01 to 10.26 while
Oil Search gained 0.05 to 3.55 after announcing a funding
agreement for a liquefied natural gas project study in Papua New
Guinea.


Rinker was up 0.01 at 18.82 following Tuesday's agreement by its
board to accept Mexico's Cemex revised 14.2 billion US dollar
takeover bid.


Qantas added 0.01 to 5.31, Virgin Blue was up 0.03 at 2.75 but
Toll Holdings retreated 0.30 to 22.30.

