

Five candidates contesting East Timor's presidential election
filed a formal protest Wednesday saying the poll was not fairly
conducted, and that counting should be stopped immediately.


"We ask the authorities to stop immediately the counting of
votes," they said in a joint statement, citing a climate of
intimidation and terror during the poll as a reason for their
action.


The protest was made in a letter to the national election
commission that was copied to the UN mission in East Timor and
the tiny nation's current president, Xanana Gusmao.


"We can disclose evidence that the process is not fair," said one
of the five, Fernando "Lasama" de Araujo of the opposition
Democrat Party.


Lasama currently lies third as the final votes are counted in the
election, which will go to a runoff between the top two
candidates on May 8.


"If the national election commission doesn't take our complaint,
I will declare that I don't accept the result," said another of
the five, lawyer Manuel Tilman.


In the letter the five candidates say there are discrepancies
between the number of votes and the number of voters.


They say that members of the government also intervened at
polling stations and that the ballot counting period was extended
unnecessarily without proper oversight.


They call for the vote count to be stopped, the ballot boxes
secured and for the count to resume in public, with all eight
presidential candidates present along with observers.


The three other candidates behind the letter are Fransisco Xavier
do Amaral, Avelino Coelho and Lucia Lobato.


None of the five except for Lasama are in the running for the
second round in East Timor's first presidential poll since
independence in 2002.


The ruling Fretilin party's Francisco Guterres is already through
to the runoff.


Nobel laureate Jose Ramos-Horta, the impoverished nation's
current prime minister, was in second place with most of the
votes counted.


The incumbent Gusmao is not seeking re-election.

