

Israel and the Palestinians inched closer towards ending a
months-long crisis over an Israeli soldier captured last June
after Israel confirmed on Sunday it had received a list of
detainees the Palestinians want freed in exchange.


In the first apparent tangible sign of progress in talks,
Egyptian mediators handed officials in Prime Minister Ehud
Olmert's office a list of several hundred prisoners, an official
told AFP.


"We have received a list of several hundreds of Palestinians,
including many with blood on their hands, who the Palestinians
want to have" in exchange for Corporal Gilad Shalit, the official
told AFP.


Israel refers to prisoners with "blood on their hands" as anyone
who has carried out or helped plan the killing of Israeli
soldiers or citizens, and has in the past said it would not
release such detainees.


Shalit was captured on June 25 by Palestinian militants,
including members of the armed wing of the ruling Islamist Hamas
movement, who raided an army outpost on the border with the Gaza
Strip.


"We have moved another step forward, but there is still a lot of
time before we see Shalit," the official said, speaking on
condition of anonymity because he is not authorised to talk to
the media.


Olmert will convene later this week the powerful security cabinet
which will decide on Israel's criteria for the release of
prisoners, Welfare Minister Isaac Herzog said.


He told AFP that Israel should "reevaluate and reformulate
criteria for the release of Palestinian prisoners, including
those for prisoners with blood on their hands."


Olmert's spokeswoman Miri Eisin refused to comment, saying only:
"This is an extremely sensitive issue which is at the top of our
priorities."


The father of the captured soldier, Noam Shalit, was not ready to
comment on the apparent progress, but said: "We are waiting
patiently for the release of Gilad."


On Saturday, Palestinian information minister Mustafa al-Barghuti
said a list of prisoners has been transferred to Israel.


"The Egyptians have transmitted a list of names of Palestinian
prisoners who must be freed. Everything that has been demanded on
the Palestinian side has been transmitted; the ball is now in the
Israeli camp."


A source close to the Palestinian government told AFP that the
list contained the names of 450 prisoners, without saying whether
it included senior leaders of Palestinian factions seized by the
Israelis.


But according to reports in the Israeli media, the list includes
Marwan Barghuti, a popular leading member of president Mahmud
Abbas's Fatah movement, who was given five life sentences for
planning attacks against Israelis during the second Palestinian
intifada.


On Friday, Abbas said he was confident Gaza militants would soon
release the Israeli soldier and an abducted BBC journalist, Alan
Johnston.


"I would like to say that we are working to secure Shalit's
release and that these efforts will soon bear fruit. We are
optimistic. He will be released soon," Abbas told the France 24
news channel.


"At the same time, we say to the Israelis that they must free the
Palestinian prisoners. But one thing does not depend on the
other. Shalit must be released."


Shalit's abduction sparked a punishing and deadly air and ground
operation in the Gaza Strip which left several hundreds of
Palestinians dead but failed to retrieve Shalit, who is believed
to be held in the impoverished territory.

