

Voters in Tokyo went to the polls Sunday in a closely watched
gubernatorial election, with outspoken nationalist Shintaro
Ishihara favoured to win a third term to lead the world's largest
metropolis.


Tokyo is one of 13 provinces holding elections on Sunday in the
run-up to July's upper house elections, which will be a key test
for embattled conservative Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.


Ishihara, an independent who is supported by Abe's Liberal
Democratic Party, is well ahead in opinion polls despite the
opposition's hopes that a series of scandals would bring him
down.


"I will be back here," Ishihara said Saturday in a stump speech
near the headquarters of the metropolitan government in the
capital's entertainment and business district of Shinjuku.


"I think this is the last election in my career," said the 74
-year-old novelist- turned-politician. "Please lend me your
support."


Ishihara, a bugbear for liberals with his outspoken criticism of
everything from China to feminism, has grown popular in part due
to policies such as banning diesel engines to improve air
quality.


His platform calls for tougher measures against crime and -- his
pet project -- bringing the Summer Olympics to Tokyo in 2016.


Some 10.42 million people are eligible to vote. Polls opened at
7:00 am (2200 GMT), with ballot counting to begin soon after
voting closes at 8:00 pm (1100 GMT).


Ishihara is running against 13 candidates including a street
musician, a taxi driver, a feng shui expert and a fortune teller.


His most prominent rival is Shiro Asano, a former governor of
northern Miyagi prefecture supported by the main opposition.


Other candidates include Kisho Kurokawa, the acclaimed architect
who designed Kuala Lumpur International Airport.


Ishihara has long courted controversy with blunt remarks such as
using racial slurs to deride Chinese and Korean residents and
describing women past childbearing age as "hags."

