

Zambia's founding president Kennneth Kaunda on Sunday urged his
long-time ally Robert Mugabe to open talks with Zimbabwe's
opposition in order to end the political crisis in the southern
African nation.


Kaunda, in his weekly newspaper diary, said all parties in
Zimbabwe should come together and embrace South African President
Thabo Mbeki who has been mandated by regional leaders to help
resolve the crisis.


"I hope and pray that Mugabe will ... talk to Morgan Tsvangirai
and they will sit together to find answers to the problems
Zimbabwe is facing today regardless of who brought these
problems," Kaunda said.


He said the appointment of Mbeki as mediator by the Southern
African Development Community (SADC) regional bloc was bringing
hope to Zimbabwe.


"It is therefore a very hopeful situation developing in Zimbabwe.
With the outstanding ability of SADC, who can have doubt that we
are getting ready for a new start in Zimbabwe," the 82-year-old
former president said.


Kaunda insisted that there was no need to "demonise" Mugabe over
the problems in his country saying the crisis had been caused by
a historic blunder of Zimbabwe's former colonial master, Britain.


Kaunda's support for 83-year-old Mugabe is in contrast to that of
Zambia's current President Levy Mwanawasa who has compared the
situation in Zimbabwe to the sinking of the Titanic.


Zimbabwe has currently has the world highest rate of inflation at
1,730 percent while four out of five people are unemployed.
Mugabe has also attracted Western criticism after recent assaults
on opposition leaders.

