

The coalition of parties supporting Benin's President Boni Yayi
placed first in last weekend's parliamentary elections, according
to official results published Saturday by the Constitutional
Court.


The coalition of some 20 parties backing Yayi, the Cauri Forces
for an Emerging Benin, won 35 out of 83 seats, followed by the
Alliance for Dynamism and Democracy of former president Necephore
Soglo with 20 seats.


The Democratic Renewal party (PRD), loyal to Adrien Houngbedji,
the defeated candidate in last March's presidential election,
came in third place with 10 seats.


"The problems identified in the organisation of the election did
not spoil the smooth casting of ballots and did not compromise
the impartiality, reliability and transparency of the vote," said
Conceptia Ouinsou, the president of the Constitutional Court.


Local and international observers also said the balloting went
well, even if they did not comment on the conditions of the
campaign.


Voter turnout in the March 31 election was 58.7 percent of the
roughly four million eligible to cast ballots in the west African
nation of 7.9 million people.


The election has been viewed as a political yardstick of support
for Yayi, a former development banker and a virtual political
unknown when he was the surprise winner of the presidential poll
in March last year.


Elected with 74 percent of the vote, Yayi made economic growth
and the fight against corruption among the major planks of his
campaign.

