

Taliban militants on Sunday renewed threats to kill an Afghan
reporter they are holding hostage unless the government agrees to
release some jailed insurgents in the next 24 hours.


The fate of five other Taliban hostages including two French
nationals captured last week would be decided following a Monday
deadline in the case of Ajmal Naqshbandi, who was kidnapped last
month with an Italian journalist.


"Monday is the last deadline. He (Ajmal) will be killed unless
the government complies with our demands," Taliban spokesman
Yousuf Ahmadi told AFP by telephone.


Ahmadi reiterated the fundamentalist movement's demand for the
release of Taliban prisoners in Afghan jails. Originally, they
had requested the freedom of two militants in exchange for
Naqshbandi.


The spokesman said the fate of two French aid workers and three
Afghan assistants abducted on Tuesday would be addressed once the
deadline had passed.


"They are in our custody and we'll decide their fate once we're
done with Ajmal's case," Ahmadi said.


The French aid workers from Terre d'Enfance (A World for Our
Children) were abducted in southwestern Nimroz province. The
province's governor and police chief said the hostages were
likely to have been moved to neighbouring Helmand.


Naqshbandi was captured in Helmand province on March 4 with
Italian journalist Daniele Mastrogiacomo, who was freed around
two weeks later in a controversial exchange for five Taliban
prisoners.


Their Afghan driver was beheaded.


President Hamid Karzai vowed Friday not to make any more hostage
deals with the Taliban, saying the one he made last month to free
Mastrogiacomo was an "extraordinary" situation.


"It was an extraordinary situation and won't be repeated again,"
Karzai told a press conference in Kabul on Friday.


"No more deals with no one and with no other country."

