

Thousands of Bangladesh cricket fans cheered and partied in the
streets Sunday to celebrate a major upset against South Africa at
the World Cup in the Caribbean.


The sound of firecrackers and car horns filled the air as
thousands poured into the streets of the capital Dhaka to
celebrate a shock 67-run victory over the world's top-ranked
team.


"We are now on top of the world," roared Waji Ullah, a student at
Dhaka University. "It is our biggest victory in the World Cup.
Ashraful was magnificent. So were all the bowlers."


Bangladesh set a daunting 252 target for South Africa's batsmen
at Guyana's Providence Stadium led by Mohammad Ashraful with 87.


The win gives Bangladesh an outside shot at a semi-final berth --
if they can manage victories in upcoming matches against England,
Ireland and the West Indies in the latest round.


"They said our victory against India was a fluke. Our boys have
showed that they can now beat the world's top team," said Rozina
Afroze, who came out on the streets with her husband and two
sons.


Police said at least 3,000 fans marched through the city's main
square.


"They were dancing wildly, cheering and waving Bangladesh flags
and chanting patriotic slogans. Some wrapped their heads with
national flags," local police chief Helal Uddin said.


Bangladesh has been under emergency rule since January and public
rallies are banned -- but police said Sunday they had not
enforced the ban overnight because "the whole nation was in a
celebration mood."


The head of the current interim government, Fakhruddin Ahmed,
offered congratulations to the team.


"The whole country is happy because of your glorious victory. It
will now strenghten Bangladesh's position in the cricket world,"
he said in a statement.

