

Churchgoers in the Solomon Island on Sunday prayed for victims of
last week's devastating earthquake and tsunami, as their leaders
urged them to embrace Easter as a time to rebuild.


"We especially pray for those people in sorrow and for those who
lost properties," reverend John Pihavaka told parishioners at St.
Luke's Anglican church on the outskirts of Gizo, one of the towns
worst hit by the disaster.


As believers celebrated the resurrection of Jesus Christ,
Pihavaka said residents of the impoverished South Pacific
archipelago now had to work to breathe new life into their own
shattered communities.


"Now is not the time to sit down and wait for supplies," he told
the congregation, as worshippers fanned themselves in the
stifling heat.


"Now is the time for you to make work, to start and rebuild after
the tsunami," he added from the palm frond-decorated altar of the
church, which sustained structural damage in the quake and is to
be rebuilt on higher ground.


At least 39 people were killed and more than 5,500 others were
left homeless last Monday when an 8.0-magnitude earthquake rocked
the western Solomons, triggering the deadly giant waves.


"Let me tell you that the eyes of the world are on the Solomons
in this time of tsunami," he said before church-goers lined up to
take communion.


At St Peter the Apostle Catholic church in the centre of town,
Easter mass was held in the open air as the badly damaged
building was deemed unsafe.


Grey breeze-blocks from the top of the church tower lay broken in
front of the building as the congregation knelt in prayer in the
adjoining garden.


"This chapel is very unsafe," father Michael Lomiri told AFP.
"But during mass, the bishop told the people that there had been
offers of help from overseas and we hope to save our church."

