

A high-level US delegation led by former UN ambassador Bill
Richardson was due in North Korea on Sunday, days ahead of a key
deadline under a six-party deal to dismantle Pyongyang's nuclear
programme.


The bipartisan team -- on a mission to recover the remains of US
soldiers killed in the Korean War -- was to arrive in the North
Korean capital aboard a US military aircraft, US embassy and
military officials in Seoul said.


The White House has said that the trip by Richardson, who is
accompanied by National Security Council Director for Asia Victor
Cha among others, is "separate" from the six-party talks on
ending Pyongyang's nuclear drive.


But the four-day trip comes as North Korea is soon due to make
good on its pledge to shut down its key nuclear facility in
Yongbyon and allow the return of UN nuclear inspectors in return
for 50,000 tonnes of heavy fuel oil.


The pledge is part of an aid-for-disarmament deal reached on
February 13 by the United States, China, the two Koreas, Russia
and Japan. Pyongyang had 60 days from that date to fulfil its
promises.


The United States said Friday that a major obstacle to the
continuation of the six-party process had likely been overcome,
with a mechanism found to unblock 25 million dollars in frozen
North Korean funds.


The delay in the return of the allegedly illicit funds has
stalled the six- nation negotiations, as North Korea has refused
to return to the talks or meet its promises until the money is
returned.


Authorities in the Chinese territory of Macau froze the funds in
September 2005 after Washington accused Banco Delta Asia of
handling what it said were assets linked to money laundering,
drug trafficking and counterfeit currency.


US State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said Friday that
Washington had identified "the technical pathway by which these
funds may be returned" from the Macau bank to Pyongyang.


But Seoul's Yonhap news agency, quoting an unnamed source close
to the six-party talks Sunday, downplayed the announcement.


"Basically, nothing has changed," the source said, adding the
banking dispute was still hampering the six-party process with no
real breakthrough yet.


The six-nation talks were launched in 2003 aimed at ending the
North's nuclear weapons ambitions. After testing several missiles
in July, Pyongyang shocked the world with its first atomic
weapons test in October.


US nuclear envoy Christopher Hill was to leave Washington on
Sunday for Tokyo and later head to Seoul and Beijing to discuss a
"timeline" for the second phase of North Korea's denuclearisation
program, McCormack said.


The delegation led by Richardson, the governor of New Mexico and
a 2008 Democratic presidential hopeful, will on Wednesday visit
the inter-Korean border village of Panmunjom, where the soldiers'
remains are to be transferred.


The US team will then cross the border and head for a US army
garrison in South Korea for a formal repatriation ceremony on
Thursday.


More than 33,000 US troops died in the Korean War from 1950-1953,
and about 8,100 are listed as missing.


"Our objective is to try to see if we can get some remains of the
very proud and honorable servicemen that perished in the Korean
War," Richardson said before leaving for Pyongyang.


"So if we get some remains back, it's a sign of progress in the
relationship."


The New Mexico governor, who has been to North Korea five times,
has had experience negotiating the release of hostages, US
servicemen and political prisoners in North Korea, Iraq and Cuba.

