

Ten people have died after drinking homemade hooch in a holy city
in Iran, where the consumption of all alcohol is banned, the
Kayhan newspaper reported on Sunday.


"On April 2, a large quantity of bootlegged alcohol was
distributed in Qom," Iran's clerical capital and the home of many
religious seminaries, south of Tehran, it said.


"A number of the drinkers were hospitalised and according to the
inhabitants of Qom, 10 people have died," the ultra-conservative
daily added.


It said that local officials had yet to confirm the death toll.


It is not the first time that toxic moonshine has claimed lives
in Iran, an Islamic country where the production and consumption
of alcohol is generally strictly prohibited.


In May 2006, 15 people died from alcohol poisoning in the
southern city of Sirjan, while in June 2004 it was reported that
22 Iranians died of the same cause in the southern city of
Shiraz.


Only recognised Christian minorities in Iran, such as the
Armenians, are allowed to produce and consume alcohol, discreetly
and behind closed doors so as not to offend Islamic
sensibilities.


Production, sale or consumption of alcohol are otherwise
punishable by jail or the lash, although this has not stopped
significant smuggling from neighbouring countries.


Newspapers reported on Sunday that 46,000 cans of beer had been
seized and destroyed in the capital in recent months.


Home distilled spirits sell for far less than smuggled foreign
brands and are the tipple of choice in poorer neighbourhoods, but
the use of industrial chemicals in their production sometimes
poses serious health risks.

