

Thailand's army-backed government has shut down a popular
political online chat room, the website said Sunday, just days
after YouTube was blocked for videos deemed insulting to the
king.


The political page of Pantip.com was closed for national security
reasons at the request of the Information Communication and
Technology (ICT) ministry, a notice on the website read.


"ICT has asked for the temporary closure of (the political page)
'Rajadamneon Room' after it found several topics that might
endanger national security," the site said in a notice.


"The web page is suspended as requested. We would like to ask
members to not post (political messages) in other rooms,
otherwise the entire site will be closed. Sorry for any
inconvenience."


Pantip is the most popular chat room in Thailand and the
political pages often feature feisty debate about democracy, the
military junta and the legitimacy of the coup that brought them
to power last year.


The political page was shut down for one week shortly after the
September coup which overthrew premier Thaksin Shinawatra.


The ICT's move comes just days they banned popular video-sharing
website YouTube because of clips considered offensive to the
nation's revered King Bhumibol Adulyadej.


Media rights campaigners have warned of increasing censorship
since the coup. Since coming to power, the military have blacked
out international news broadcasts, seized a private television
station and blocked political websites.


Thailand has blocked some 45,000 websites, the group Freedom
Against Censorship Thailand have said.


Most are pornographic but the government also targets sites
critical of the king or supportive of the deposed Thaksin.


Pantip users had recently been debating the censorship of
YouTube, although it was not clear if this was the reason it was
censored. The ICT were not immediately available for comment.

