

Israel has received a list of names of detainees the Palestinians
want freed in exchange for a soldier abducted by Gaza militants
last June, a senior official said on Sunday.


"We have received a list of several hundreds of Palestinians,
including many with blood on their hands, who the Palestinians
want to have" in exchange for Corporal Gilad Shalit, the official
told AFP.


Israel refers to prisoners with "blood on their hands" as anyone
who has carried out or helped plan the killing of Israeli
soldiers or citizens.


Shalit was captured on June 25 by Palestinian militants,
including members of the armed wing of the ruling Islamist Hamas
movement, who raided an army outpost on the border with the Gaza
Strip.


"We have moved another step forward, but there is still a lot of
time before we see Shalit," the official said, speaking on
condition of anonymity because he is not authorised to talk to
the media.


The list was handed to Israel by Egyptian officials who have been
mediating efforts to hammer out a deal in recent months, the
official said.


On Saturday, Palestinian information minister Mustafa al-Barghuti
said that a list of prisoners has been transferred to Israel.


An Egyptian delegation "has informed the Palestinian government
that the procedure for an exchange has started," Barghuti told a
news conference in Ramallah.


"The Egyptians have transmitted a list of names of Palestinian
prisoners who must be freed. Everything that has been demanded on
the Palestinian side has been transmitted; the ball is now in the
Israeli camp."

