

Australia's Will Power seized pole position for the opening Champ
Car race of 2007 on Saturday, as defending Champ Car champion
Sebastien Bourdais was relegated to the last row of the grid.


Power, seeking to build on his 2006 Rookie of the Year season,
clocked 113.154 mph on the street circuit in Las Vegas which is
just one of several new venues on tap this year.


The series will also feature a new racing chassis in use by all
the teams, the Panoz DP01.


Paul Stoddart, the former Formula One team owner who enters the
Champ Car fray with Minardi Team USA this season, said the
changes could make it easier for those hoping to challenge the
hegemony of three-time defending champion Bourdais - at least for
a while.


That opinion gained some credence on Saturday when Bourdais, who
ran only one fast lap in Saturday's second qualifying session,
had that time disallowed when he crashed and will start from the
last row of the starting grid.


"I screwed up and brushed the wall on the outside of Turn 9,"
Bourdais said. "The McDonald's car had too much understeer, and I
just forced the thing. The car stepped out a little bit on exit
and I was already too close to the wall and hit the rear a little
bit."


Despite his difficulties on the day, and the overall problems
involved in breaking in a new car, Bourdais wasn't ready to admit
defeat.


"We are going to have to be pretty darn good to get it done, but
we'll see," he said. "It's a new track so we don't quite know if
it's possible to pass or not. We've done it before, but it was a
different thing. We don't have the car we knew. It's not the best
way to start the season for sure."


Power was joined on the front row by Canadian Paul Tracy, who
booked his spot there with the fastest time in Friday's first
qualifying session.

