

Nine soldiers and a civilian were killed in an attack by
suspected Islamic militants at an army base in the troubled
southern Philippine island of Jolo, the military said Sunday.


Armed men attacked the army base near the town of Parang before
dawn Saturday, and killed nine soldiers and the civilian, Army
spokesman Lieutenant Colonel Ernesto Torres said.


"We cannot ascertain yet what really happened. It was very dark,"
Torres said adding that the gunmen could be members of the Al-
Qaeda-linked Abu Sayyaf militants. A civilian and another soldier
were also wounded.


Torres' statement came just hours after military sources said
nine soldiers were killed when an unidentified gunman made an
unprovoked attack at the base.


Sources said military commanders in the area earlier tried to
keep the incident under wraps, citing negative publicity it would
have on security operations in the area.


The official army version however did not explain how Abu Sayyaf
militants could have staged a surprise attack when the area has
been heavily secured. US advisers are also stationed at a
separate base near the one that was attacked.


Torres or other military spokesman could not be reached for
further details.


Sources earlier reported a lone attacker, who could either have
been a soldier or a member of a pro-government militia helping
troops in the hunt against the Abu Sayyaf and Jemaah Islamiyah.


The man was said to have started firing indiscriminately some
time on Saturday morning before he was killed by troops, the
sources said.


More than 5,000 troops backed by US advisers are on Jolo island
to track down Abu Sayyaf militants and several key leaders of
Jemaah Islamiyah, militant groups which have been blamed for a
number of terror atrocities.

