

Iran said on Sunday that any suspension of sensitive nuclear
activities was not open to discussion, the day before President
Mahmoud Ahmadinejad is expected to announce a major development
on its atomic drive.


"We will not discuss the legitimate rights of Iran," foreign
ministry spokesman Mohammad Ali Hosseini told a news conference.


UN Security Council powers, which fear Iran is seeking to develop
a nuclear weapon, have slapped two sets of UN sanctions against
Tehran over its refusal to suspend uranium enrichment.


"We can negotiate about the concerns of the different parties and
the non- diversion of the Iranian nuclear programme," said
Hosseini, referring to Iran's insistence that its atomic drive is
peaceful.


"We are doing nothing that is against the nuclear Non-
Proliferation Treaty and so there is no reason or logic for a
suspension," he said.


Ahmadinejad is on Monday due to visit the uranium enrichment
facility in Natanz -- Iran's most sensitive nuclear site -- to
mark the Islamic republic's day of nuclear technology.


He is expected to use the occasion to make a major announcement
on Iran's nuclear programme after repeatedly promising "good
news" in the near future.


Iran has said it wants to install 3,000 uranium enriching
centrifuges at an underground facility at Natanz and observers
are expecting the announcement to refer to progress in Iran's
enrichment.


Uranium enrichment is highly sensitive as the process can be used
both to make nuclear energy and the explosive core of a nuclear
bomb. Iran insists it has every right to the full nuclear fuel
cycle.

