

YouTube has become a superstar of the Internet since the video-
sharing website was launched in California slightly more than two
years ago.


While winning devotees around the world, YouTube has been
repeatedly called to account for user-provided videos at odds
with cultural tastes, political agendas or copyright concerns.


The following are some of the flashpoints in the history of the
firm, which was bought by Internet search colossus Google in
November:


Nov 2006 - YouTube removes copyrighted works in the face of
complaints by the Japanese Society for Rights of Authors,
Composers and Publishers


Nov 14, 2006 - Google completes its 1.65-billion-dollar
acquisition of start-up YouTube. Google sets aside slightly more
than 200 million dollars of the purchase price in a lawsuit
defense fund


Dec 3, 2006 - Iran blocks YouTube and several other websites to
keep out "corrupting" foreign films and music


Jan 4, 2007 - A Brazilian court orders YouTube blocked for
failing to withdraw a compromising video of supermodel Daniela
Cicarelli on a beach in Spain. The ban is lifted after YouTube
removes the video


Feb 2, 2007 - YouTube agrees to remove more than 100,000
unauthorized clips of Viacom television programs


Feb 26, 2007 - Malaysia announces that it will prosecute anyone
that posts clips of motorbike gangs performing dangerous stunts
on Internet websites such as YouTube


Mar 1, 2007 - An Australian state bans YouTube from school
computers in a bid to clamp down on cyber-bullying


Mar 7, 2007 - Turkey's largest telecommunications provider, Turk
Telekom, blocks access to YouTube on a court order due to a video
deemed insulting to the country's founding father Mustafa Kemal
Ataturk. The ban is lifted after YouTube removes the video


Mar 13, 2007 - US entertainment giant Viacom files a billion-
dollar lawsuit accusing Google and YouTube of "massive" copyright
infringement


Mar 26, 2007 - The International Cricket Council tells YouTube to
remove World Cup clips, claiming copyright infringement


Apr 4, 2007 - Thailand blocks YouTube after it carried a clip
seen as insulting the country's revered king. New videos
lampooning the king appear on the site two days later


Apr 5, 2007 - Tokyo's election commission asks YouTube to take
off clips of candidates for the local governor's race, saying it
gave some of them unfair advantages

