

South Africa and the World Cup are proving to be combustible
bedfellows.


Their 67-run humiliation at the hands of Bangladesh on Saturday
opened a new chapter in a miserable tale for the highly-rated but
under-performing Proteas.


Coming into the Caribbean, South Africa knew that all of their
previous World Cup campaigns had ended in heartbreak.


It started with a farcical end to the 1992 semi-final against
England in Sydney when a tough but manageable target of 22 off 13
balls became an impossible 21 off one ball after the total was
adjusted due to rain.


In 1996, South Africa were favourites after strong play in the
round robin phase, only to be eliminated when Brian Lara made a
brilliant century for the West Indies in the quarter-finals.


In the last two tournaments, in 1999 and 2003, a single run
thwarted South Africa in tied matches, spectacularly in a semi-
final against Australia in 1999 and miserably against Sri Lanka
four years later when they needed a win to go beyond the first
round.


But once again, they were undone by the rain rules and crashed
out.


South Africa, who have replaced Australia at the top of the
international one- day rankings, have been labelled "chokers"
after past failures but coach Mickey Arthur and captain Graeme
Smith believed that proper preparation would overcome any
potential jitters.


Smith said the team had talked about their past failures.


"We have discussed them and put them behind us," he said on the
eve of the World Cup.


"Most of the team were not involved in those disappointments, and
we have developed our own character and determination. But it's
important to learn from those mistakes and make sure we don't
repeat them."

