

Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono on Sunday said he
is fed up with deadly violence at a state school that trains
civil servants.


"This cannot be tolerated any longer," Yudhoyono said during a
ceremony at Jakarta's main Istiqlal mosque.


He said he was considering taking "a fundamental action" against
the Institute of Public Administration (IPDN) in Jatinangor, West
Java.


"If I need to, (I will) set up a new educational institution,"
the president said.


The death of Cliff Muntu on April 3 brought to four the number of
students who have died since 2000. Seven deaths have occurred
since 1994.


An autopsy and investigation found Muntu had bruises on several
of his organs from a beating by five senior students. Four have
since been expelled.


All the victims died at the hands of senior students during
orientation periods or following punishments.


Yudhoyono did not elaborate further on the changes he was
considering, saying they would have to wait until he receives a
complete investigative report on Monday from the home affairs
ministry.


"What is important is that we make a fundamental change,
introducing a system of sanctions to those negligent, and legal
actions against those indulging in crimes," he said.


"I have also asked the head of the IPDN to account for the
incident as well as those previous incidents," he added.


The latest death has unleashed a barrage of public protests,
including demands that the school, which prepares public
officials for administrative postings in the government, be
closed down.

