

Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki's arrival in Tokyo was
delayed Sunday amid reports Iran refused to allow his plane to
fly across its airspace, a Japanese official said Sunday.


Maliki had been scheduled to arrive in Tokyo in the early
afternoon Sunday, at the start of his first tour to Japan and
South Korea.


"We are informed by Iraqi authorities that his arrival will be
delayed considerably although he is still en route to Japan," a
Japanese foreign ministry official said.


"We have not been given any reason for the delay, although we
received unconfirmed information that his flight was unexpectedly
diverted to Dubai because Iran refused to allow the airplane to
fly over the country."


Iran, which fought a bloody 1980-88 war with Saddam Hussein's
Iraq, supports the US-backed government of Maliki, a member of
the country's Shiite majority.


But Shiite-dominated Iran and the United States have been at
loggerheads over Washington's charges that Tehran is abetting the
Iraqi insurgency. In January, US forces arrested five Iranians in
the northern city of Arbil.


In Tokyo, Maliki will hold talks with Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
and is expected to sign a 700-million-dollar loan agreement with
Japan to help the war-torn country improve crude oil output and
power generation.


Japan is a major donor to Iraq and took the landmark step of
sending 600 troops there on a reconstruction mission.


It marked the first time since World War II that officially
pacifist Japan had sent soldiers to a country where fighting was
underway.


Japan ended the troop deployment last year, although Abe recently
decided to extend by two years an air mission flying goods and
personnel into Iraq on behalf of the United Nations and the US-
led coalition.

