

The last active militia chief in an area of  Democratic Republic
of Congo where fighting has claimed some 60,000 lives, was
formally integrated into the army on Saturday.


Peter Karim, whose Nationalist and Integrationist Front is
accused of several crimes against the civilian population in
Ituri, handed in his own weapons and joined the regular army.


"Peter Karim himself gave up his arms last night (Friday),"
General Vainqueur Mayala told AFP.


"The official ceremony of his integration into FARDC (the DRC
army) took place today (Saturday) at Kpandroma," northeast of
Bunia, the main town in Ituri in the northeast of the country.


"It is an important stage that has been passed through, with the
help of MONUC (the UN mission in DRC). Karim was the last rebel
chief who resisted disarmament," Mayala said


More than 15,000 fighters have disarmed in the Ituri region since
national demobilisation began in 2005, including almost all the
main militia leaders.


In July 2006, Karim agreed to take part in return for a general
amnesty and a colonel position in the army, but fighting
restarted after a few months.


Clashes between Karim's troops and the army have killed more than
100 people since the beginning of 2007, according to army
figures.


"All the fighters who remain in the bush must now demobilise,"
Mayala said, adding that about 350 militia belonging to different
groups were in the area.


Karim himself is blamed by the UN for an attack against a
helicopter in 2005 that killed a Nepalese UN soldier.


"The main issue was to pacify the region, to allow the reopening
of lines of communication, to build schools and hospitals,"
Mayala added.


Humanitarian groups say more than 60,000 people have died in
fighting in Ituri since 1999. The UN estimates that more than
150,000 have been displaced.

