

Hong Kong's new tourism boss vowed Sunday to crack down on high-
street retail scams that prey on unsuspecting Chinese visitors.


The comments by James Tien, recently appointed chairman of the
Hong Kong Tourist Board, follow revelations that a number of
jewellery shops had sold fake goods to Chinese tourists.


"I find these allegations shocking and deeply damaging for our
tourism industry," said Tien, a tycoon lawmaker and former
government cabinet member.


"The full weight of our existing regulations must be brought
against repeated offenders," he said in an address on public
radio.


The jewellery scam emerged in a Chinese TV news report last week.


It alleged that tourists from Shenzhen city bought a 9,800 Hong
Kong dollar (1,260 US dollar) diamond necklace and 16,000 dollar
diamond watch -- but the jewels later proved to be only glass.


Chiefs at the Tourism Industry Council (TIC) trade body warned
that such incidents would damage Hong Kong's reputation as a
shopping destination, which contributed to the city pulling in a
record 25 million tourists in 2006.


They were especially troubled as the report came months after the
government ordered a clean up of so-called "zero fee tours",
which offer free holidays in return for visitors spending much of
their time in stores and restaurants that pay the guides a
commission.


They had come under criticism after several holidaymakers
complained of being subjected to hard-sell techniques in shops by
tour guides hoping to ramp up their sales figures.


Tien echoed the TIC warning.


"We all know that it is only a tiny, unscrupulous minority of
people who stoop to that kind of exploitation, but it only takes
a minority to tarnish the reputation of Hong Kong as a
destination," he said.


"We at HKTB, TIC and the government must do everything in our
power to ensure that these cheats do not continue."

