

Germany, Sweden and the United States advanced to the Davis Cup
semi-finals with a day to spare on Saturday as defending
champions Russia moved closer to the final four when they took a
2-1 lead over France in Moscow.


Germany took an unassailable 3-0 lead over hosts Belgium in
Ostend thanks to doubles duo Alexander Waske and Michael Kohlmann
who beat brothers Olivier and Christophe Rochus 4-6, 6-2, 6-3,
6-1.


The win added to the singles victories Friday of Tommy Haas over
Kristof Vliegen 6-7 (4/7), 7-5, 6-4, 6-2 and Philipp
Kohlschreiber over Olivier Rochus 6-3, 7-5, 7-6 (7/4).


"We have worked so long for it. We are in the semis but we want
more now," said German captain Patrik Kuhnen, whose side will
play either Russia or France in the September 21-23 semi-final.


The last time Germany played in a semi-final was in 1995 when
they lost to Russia in Moscow after leading 2-0.


In Gothenburg, Sweden took an unbeatable 3-0 lead over last
year's runners-up Argentina when doubles duo Thomas Johansson and
Jonas Bjorkman defeated David Nalbandian and Guillermo Canas 4-6,
7-6 (7/4), 6-2, 6-3 in just under three hours.


Despite Nalbandian and Canas dominating the first set, which they
wrapped up in less than 30 minutes, the Swedes fought back in the
second, relying mainly on their solid service games.


"I knew this morning that it could be a bit tough, but we knew
how to make the difference," said 2002 Australian Open champion
Johansson, who has dropped to 73rd in the world rankings.


Sweden won both Friday's opening singles on the indoors carpet
surface when Johansson beat Nalbandian 6-7 (3/7), 7-6 (7/2), 6-2,
7-6 (7/0) and Robin Soderling got the better of Juan Martin del
Potro 7-6 (7/4), 7-6 (7/4), 6-4.


The Swedes are now into the last four for the first time since
2001, where they will meet the United States, who took a 3-0 lead
over a Spanish side playing without world No. 2 Rafael Nadal.


As expected, doubles duo Bob and Mike Bryan and Mike Bryan
defeated Feliciano Lopez and Fernando Verdasco 7-5, 6-3, 3-6, 7-6
(7/5) on the indoor hardcourts at Winston-Salem, North Carolina,
to give the Americans an unbeatable lead.


The American pair won their 11th Davis Cup match out of 12 to
send the 31-time champion Americans into the final four. James
Blake and Andy Roddick had given the US a 2-0 lead on Friday,
Blake with a 6-4, 6-3, 6-4 win over Tommy Robredo and Roddick
with a 7-6 (7/5), 6-1, 6-4 victory over Verdasco.


In Moscow, Nikolay Davydenko and Igor Andreev handed Russia a 2-1
lead with a 3-6, 7-5, 6-3, 3-6, 6-3 victory over French doubles
specialists Michael Llodra and Sebastien Grosjean.


The Russians won through in three hours 23 minutes to give the
hosts a crucial lead going into Sunday's deciding reverse singles
rubbers.


Before this match France had won 22 of its last 31 doubles
matches, however France captain Guy Forget's decision to
experiment with Llodra and Grosjean this time failed to pay off.


The victory stunned the Russians, neither of whom had played
doubles in over a year. "We managed to do something that looked
completely impossible just four hours ago," an overawed Davydenko
said after the match.


"Neither of us had played doubles for at least a year and came
here today with just one wish - not to disgace ourselves. I'm
really surprised we managed to win."


On Friday Paul-Henri Mathieu had given France the advantage after
he battled back from a set down to beat Davydenko 2-6, 6-2, 6-1,
7-5 in the opening rubber.


Mikhail Youzhny than beat Richard Gasquet of France in a marathon
five-setter 6-2, 6-3, 6-7 (8/10), 5-7, 8-6 to level proceedings
at 1-1.

