

A soldier from the NATO-led force was killed Sunday and another
was injured in a roadside bomb blast in southern Afghanistan, the
alliance said.


The death brought to 28 the number of NATO-led troops killed this
year in violence-plagued southern Afghanistan, said a NATO
military spokeswoman, Lieutenant Colonel Maria Carl.


She did not reveal the location or the nationality of the
casualties.


"There was an improvised explosive device (IED) explosion this
morning, killing one (NATO) soldier and injuring another one,"
she told a news briefing in Kabul.


The casualties come as thousands of NATO-led International
Security Assistance Force (ISAF) backed by more than 1,000 Afghan
security forces are hunting Taliban rebels in the southern
province of Helmand.


Carl refused to say if the soldiers were participating in that
operation. Without the latest casualty, three ISAF soldiers have
been killed since the operation, code-named Achilles, was
launched in early March.


Dozens of Taliban rebels have been killed or captured during the
month-long hunt, according to ISAF officials.


The Taliban, despite being ousted from power five years ago, are
still able to carry out attacks. As part of their campaign they
have been attacking Afghan and foreign troops as well as aid
workers and journalists.


Six people were killed Friday in a suicide bombing near the
national parliament in the capital Kabul.


The Taliban have pledged more such attacks this year after
carrying out nearly 150 suicide attacks across Afghanistan in
2006.

