

Australian conglomerate Wesfarmers Sunday said it had no plans to
sell off any businesses to fund its bid for the country's second-
largest retailer Coles.


Wesfarmers Ltd is spearheading a 19.7 billion dollar (16.1
billion US dollar) bid for Coles Group Ltd which, if successful,
would be one of the biggest takeovers in Australian corporate
history.


The company, a leader in home improvement and building supplies,
last week led a share raid on Coles which netted more than 11
percent of its stock.


Chief executive Richard Goyder said the company would not divest
itself of other businesses such as coal or fertiliser to fund the
proposed Coles purchase.


"We're a diversified business and proud of it, and it has been
one of the great strengths of Wesfarmers over time," Goyder told
Sky News.


"We don't need to sell any assets to finance this deal and we
look forward to all businesses at Wesfarmers contributing to our
future growth."


Goyder said Wesfarmers, which is in talks with Coles over the
takeover, had made a compelling offer for the retailer which
includes supermarkets, liquor stores, an office supply chain and
budget department stores Target and Kmart.


"It delivers outstanding value to Coles shareholders," he said.


"We don't require any regulatory approvals... we can get an offer
to their shareholders in good time."


Wesfarmers is part of a consortium with investment bank Macquarie
Bank, local private outfit Pacific Equity Partners and Europe's
Permira to launch a bid worth more than 2.0 billion dollars to
snare Coles.


The offer comes after Coles rebuffed a bid from US outfit
Kohlberg Kravis Roberts (KKR). KKR's proposal of 15.25 dollars
per share was rejected as significantly below the company's true
value.


Wesfarmers has offered 16.47 dollars cash per Coles share.


Coles announced in February it wanted a competitive auction of
its assets  after it said it would not achieve its profit target
for 2008.

