

Washington allowed Ethiopia to secretly buy weapons from North
Korea in an apparent breach of UN sanctions aimed at punishing
Pyongyang for its atomic test, the New York Times reported
Saturday.


The purchase went through in January -- three months after the UN
text was adopted -- as Ethiopia was supporting Somali government
troops in a battle against Islamist militias, the paper said,
quoting unnamed senior US officials.


The officials said they learned that Ethiopia was planning to get
a shipment of "military cargo from North Korea" after the UN
resolution was passed in mid- October.


One of the officials was quoted as saying the Ethiopian
government appealed to the administration of US President George
W. Bush by saying: "Look, we know we need to transition to
different customers, but we just can't do that overnight."


Then, following "a brief debate in Washington, the decision was
made not to block the arms deal and to press Ethiopia not to make
future purchases," the paper said.


The exact contents and value of the January shipment were
unknown, though US intelligence agencies said it was "probably
... tank parts and other military equipment."


The sanctions called for the cease of sale to and transfer from
North Korea of battle tanks, armored combat vehicles, large
caliber artillery systems, combat aircraft, attack helicopters,
warships, missiles or missile systems.


The United States had led the calls for a strong international
response to Pyongyang's nuclear test in October 2006 and welcomed
the unanimous adoption of the resolution.


The US State Department declined to comment on the Times report.

