

Taliban rebels stormed a district headquarters in eastern
Afghanistan overnight, sparking a battle that was joined by NATO
helicopters and left at least 13 rebels dead, officials said
Saturday.


The rebels attacked the headquarters of the Alishar district in
Khost province, on the border with Pakistan, kicking off intense
fighting with police who called for NATO air support.


The militants were hit by a NATO air strike as they were
retreating, carrying a number of dead and wounded, provincial
governor Arsala Jamal told AFP.


"There are 13 Taliban bodies at the battle site now," he said.
"Blood stains in the area suggest there must have been more than
13 killed or wounded taken out of the area."


"It was the NATO helicopters who caused the major blow to the
enemy," said provincial police spokesman Wazir Badshah.


An eyewitness, Mohammad Amin, said he had also counted 13 bodies.
"They were almost in a line which makes me think they were
running one after another as they came under aerial attack," he
said.


A spokesman with NATO's International Security Assistance Foce in
Khost, Major Donald A. Korpi, confirmed the force had sent in air
support after a request from police.


Korpi could confirm only 10 dead but said the number might be
higher.


Khost has seen a surge of attacks since a controversial deal last
year with tribal authorities in Pakistan's adjoining North
Waziristan area saw the government scale down it presence.


Afghan officials say the Taliban and their Al-Qaeda allies have
training camps in Pakistan which feed the insurgency that was its
most deadly last year since the Taliban regime was toppled in
2001.

