

A Malaysian employer and his family have been arrested by police
over the death of an Indian migrant worker, whom they allegedly
tortured and later left for dead in a remote jungle.


A police officer in northern Penang island told AFP the family of
three was arrested after the Indian worker, R. Ganesh, from Tamil
Nadu, was discovered starving and wounded in a jungle in northern
Kedah state on Tuesday.


"They have been remanded for six days until Monday. We have not
completed the investigation yet but we have reclassifed the case
as murder," said Mohamad Anil Shah Abdullah, police chief of the
central Seberang Prai district.


The New Straits Times on Saturday reported that the suspects,
Ganesh's 50-year employer along with his wife and their 20-year-
old son were initially held for voluntarily causing grievous hurt
to Ganesh.


He was allegedly beaten up, had hot water poured on his body and
was chained without food for 20 days. "The victim was dumped in a
remote jungle in Kedah after that," Mohamad Anil said.


Police reclassified the case as murder after Ganesh's death on
Friday.


Doctors have said he was suffering from malnutrition and
dehydration as a result of starvation when he was initially
found, the newspaper reported.


Before his death Ganesh told the newspaper that he was made to
work for 16 hours a day, without adequate food or rest in the
last eight months.


The family had been accused of abusing their Indonesian maid in
2005, by pouring hot water on her. The case was settled after
they allegedly paid the maid off and sent her home, the newspaper
said.


Malaysia is one of the largest importers of foreign labour in
Asia. Foreign workers, both legal and illegal, accounted for
about 2.6 million of its 10.5 million workforce.

