

The Vatican is to beatify 498 "martyrs", most of whom were killed
during the Spanish Civil War because of their religion, Spain's
Roman Catholic Church said Friday.


Several thousand priests, monks and nuns were killed by the
Spanish republic's mainly leftwing defenders during the 1936-1939
civil war which was won by late dictator Francisco Franco's
nationalist side.


The Vatican regulary beatifies its victims, to the anger of many
on the left in Spain who argue that the Church should instead
apologize for supporting Franco's 1936 putsch and the anti-
republican repression that followed the war.


Beatification is the last formal step before possible sainthood.


In a statement, Spain's episcopal conference invited the faithful
to travel to Rome for "the beatification of 498 of our brothers
in the creed amongst the thousands who gave their lives for the
love of Jesus Christ during the religous persecution of the
1930s."


The move comes as Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero's
socialist government takes steps to adopt a so-called "law of
historical memory". It seeks to rehabilitate the republican
victims of the civil war and Franco's dictatorship.


The Spanish Church denied it was seeking a confrontation with the
government.


"Remembering the martyrs is not against anyone nor does it accuse
anyone," said the spokesman for the Episcopal Conference, Juan
antonio Martinez Camino.


Asked about the planned beatifications, deputy prime minister
Maria Teresa Fernandez de la Vega said the government respected
the decisions taken by the episcopal conference.


Half a million people from both sides were killed during the
civil war.

