

Wall Street shook off early jitters sparked by a weak reading on
US economic growth and ended mixed Friday, with the blue-chip Dow
industrials eking out a small gain to hit a fresh all-time high.


The benchmark Dow Jones Industrial Average edged up 15.60 points
(0.12 percent) 13,121.10 at the closing bell, notching a third
consecutive record closing high.


The tech-heavy Nasdaq composite gained 2.96 points (0.12 percent)
to 2,557.42 while the broad-market Standard and Poor's 500 index
shed a fractional 0.04 points to a preliminary close at 1,494.21.


The market action came after the government reported US gross
domestic product (GDP) growth cooled dramatically to a 1.3
percent pace in the first quarter of 2007, highlighting concerns
about a weakening US economy.


"The first-quarter real GDP report has served as a reminder that
the good earnings trends for the first quarter may not continue
into the second and third quarter," said Dick Green, analyst at
Briefing.com.


But Gregory Drahuschak at Janney Montgomery Scott said some
traders were already looking past the report, which covered the
January-March period.


"Today's relatively muted response to the lower-than-expected GDP
data shows the market is focused on a longer-term and much more
positive environment," Drahuschak said.


"There is a growing belief that the second half of 2007 will see
improvement in GDP to trend growth or close to it. This should
reinforce the earnings prop for the market.


"As long as rates do not rise too much, this could provide a very
good market environment, particularly if inflation remains
roughly where it is now."

