

Sacramento Kings forward Ron Artest won't face animal cruelty
charges, and his allegedly underfed dog will have a new home,
Placer County authorities said Friday.


Placer County Animal Services said in a report posted on their
website that Artest had agreed to allow a great dane named Socks
to go to a new owner, and Deputy District Attorney Jeff Wilson
said in a statement that there was insufficient evidence to
charge Artest with animal cruelty or neglect.


The dog was originally seized on February 5, after which it
remained in county custody at a local veterinary hospital. On
March 7, the dog was released to Artest's attorney, on condition
it not be returned to the player.


In a separate legal matter, Artest is still facing four
misdemeanor domestic violence charges in relation to a March
incident involving his wife.


He was ordered to remain 100 yards away from wife Kimsha and
their three children, although he can communicate with them.


On Thursday, a court hearing in that case was postponed until May
2.


Brushes with authority are nothing new for Artest.


While playing for the Indiana Pacers, Artest was at the centre of
a 2004 melee during an NBA game in suburban Detroit and suspended
for 75 games, the longest non-drug ban in NBA history.


After a scuffle on the court with Detroit Pistons center Ben
Wallace, Artest was hit with a partially full plastic cup thrown
from the stands and he raced into the seating area, attacking a
fan he believed threw the cup.


The incident triggered a brawl between players and fans and led
to changes in security measures at all NBA arenas. Artest later
faced criminal charges but was sentenced to probation and
community service.

