

The United States on Friday voiced dismay at what it said was
Nigeria's missed chance to progress in its democratic process,
after a "seriously flawed" vote marred by "malfeasance and vote-
rigging."


"The United States regrets that Nigeria has missed an opportunity
to strengthen an element of its democracy through a sound
electoral process," said Tom Casey, State Department deputy
spokesman.


"Analysis of the process by most international observers does not
conform to what Nigeria's national electoral commission has
reported. There are credible reports of malfeasance and vote
rigging in some constituencies," he said, adding: "The scope of
violence that occurred also was regrettable.


"Overall, the process was seriously flawed. In spite of these
significant shortcomings, the commitment of ordinary Nigerians to
democracy remains noteworthy: We praise those Nigerians who
adhered to the democratic process by exercising their right to
vote."


The German presidency of the European Union earlier said the
Nigerian elections held on April 14 and 21 "did not represent
significant progress in relation to 2003 elections" in spite of
improvements provided by legislation enacted last year.


"The EU is deeply concerned that these elections were marred by
many irregularities and by violent incidents resulting in a high
toll of victims," it said in a statement issued in Berlin.


Meanwhile Washington urged Nigerians "to eschew violence or any
other extra- constitutional actions that would foster insecurity
and hamper political dialogue.


"We commend those political party leaders who are urging their
supporters to remain calm and peaceful notwithstanding
disappointment with the conduct of the election," the US
statement said.


"Whatever the outcome of legal challenges to the electoral
results, we are encouraged that on May 29 Nigeria will experience
its first civilian-to-civilian transfer of power," it added.

