

Eight Ethiopians released this week after being held hostage for
nearly two months in the remote Afar desert said they were
"beaten" and "exposed to inhuman treatment", state media
reported.


The drivers and guides -- captured with five Europeans who were
released after 12 days -- were finally let go last Sunday after
52 days in captivity, and returned to the Ethiopian capital late
Thursday.


The ex-hostages told Ethiopian television that they had been
mistreated by their captors, who wore Eritrean army uniforms.


"We suffered inhumane treatment throughout our stay. The water
was dirty and undrinkable, there was hardly any food and we had
to walk for five days through salt fields and other inhospitable
places when they kidnapped us," said Hussein Mohammed Ismael,
owner of a guesthouse.


Another ex-captive, Yonas Mesfin, reiterated Ethiopia's claims
that Eritrea was responsible for the kidnapping, which happened
in the remote Afar region, straddling both countries and
Djibouti. State media said the hostages were released in Eritrea.


"A total of 20 to 30 armed men kidnapped us ... and they wore
Eritrean army uniforms. We were also taken towards Eritrea after
that," said Yonas.


The state-owned Ethiopian News Agency (ENA), citing ex-captive
Hussein Mohamed, said the hostages were "beaten by gunmen who
wore Eritrean uniforms".


Asmara has rejected accusations that it was involved in the
kidnapping, saying the allegations were designed to divert
attention from Ethiopia's own internal opposition.


The Ethiopians were abducted at gunpoint with a British embassy-
linked group of three men and two women on March 1 in northeast
Ethiopia.


Ethiopia and Eritrea fought a bitter territorial war between 1998
and 2000 and are still at odds over their unresolved border
dispute.

