

Israeli troops shot dead three members of the Islamist Hamas's
armed wing and wounded a fourth in the Gaza Strip on Saturday, a
Palestinian medical source said.


The incident took place at about 8:30 am (0530 GMT), northwest of
Gaza City and near the security barrier between Israel and Gaza,
said emergency medical services chief Dr Maawia Hassanin.


The armed wing of the ruling Palestinian party Hamas, the
Ezzedine al-Qassam Brigades, said on its Internet site that the
three dead "were martyred during a jihad (holy war) operation."


It named two of them as Said Bassam Hellis, 21, and Abdel Halim
al-Fayyumi, 27. Hassanin said the third man was 24-year-old
Mohammed al-Fiqi.


The incident was confirmed by the Israeli army.


"Israeli soldiers spotted four armed Palestinians trying to place
an explosive charge next to the security barrier between Gaza and
Israel, and shot them down," a spokeswoman said.


In a separate incident, a Palestinian security source said Shadi
Abdul Rahim Abu Daher, 18, was killed by Israeli tankfire near
the border in southern Gaza. The Israeli army denied carrying out
any attack in the area.


"At 9:30 am (0630 GMT), armed men were planting bombs about 100
metres (yards) from the border. Witnesses heard tankfire, then an
explosion," the source said.


Saturday's deaths brought to 5,674 the number of people killed
since the outbreak of the Palestinian intifada, or uprising, in
2000, the majority of them Palestinians, according to an AFP
tally.


On Tuesday, the Qassam Brigades declared a five-month truce with
Israel over after Israeli raids killed nine Palestinians last
week.

