

US President George W. Bush and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo
Abe, holding their first US summit, warned North Korea Friday
that global patience with its nuclear promises is "not
unlimited."


The two allies, looking to build their personal relationship,
signaled the Stalinist state of possible new sanctions after
Pyongyang missed an April 14 deadline to shut down a key atomic
reactor.


Bush warned that the United States, Japan and their partners
China, Russia and South Korea "are patient" with North Korea,
"but our patience is not unlimited" and stressed "we have the
capability of more sanctions."


Abe, speaking through an interpreter, said: "Should the North
Koreans fail to keep their promise, we will step up our pressures
on North Korea. And on that point, again, I believe we see eye to
eye."


After roughly two hours of talks, which yielded a joint statement
on energy security and climate change, the leaders headed into a
cheeseburger lunch as Bush renewed pressure on Japan to fully
lift its curbs on US beef.


"The Japanese people will be better off when they eat American
beef. It's good beef, it's healthy beef; as a matter of fact, I'm
going to feed the prime minister and his delegation a good
hamburger today for lunch," said Bush.


Abe also brought up North Korea's abduction of Japanese citizens.
Japan has refused to fund the February deal to supply North Korea
with energy in exchange for its nuclear disarmament unless there
is progress on the issue.


"We agree that the current state of the six-party talks, as well
as North Korea's attitude towards the abduction issue, are
regrettable and we'll work for closer coordination between our
two countries to achieve progress," he said.


But Bush declined to say if resolving the abductee issue was a
precondition for taking North Korea off the US terrorism list
when explicitly asked by a reporter.


The February agreement, crafted in the six-nation talks, set
April 14 as the deadline for North Korea to shut down its
Yongbyon nuclear reactor as the first step in scrapping its
nuclear program.


But that date slipped by because of an unresolved dispute with
the United States involving North Korean funds held in a Macau
bank, which Bush called "a bump in the road" that was being
smoothed over.


South Korea's spy agency said Thursday that North Korea may be
preparing to invite UN atomic inspectors to its key nuclear
facility, as a prelude to shutting it down.


Unusual activity has been spotted around the Yongbyon reactor,
which produces the raw material for plutonium to make nuclear
weapons, the South  Korean parliament's intelligence committee
said in a statement.


Bush welcomed Abe, who arrived in Washington on Thursday on his
first official visit since becoming premier, with a White House
dinner.


The two leaders headed off early Friday to the Camp David
presidential retreat in Maryland for talks.


Abe said he hoped to build on a strategic relationship that grew
under his predecessor Junichiro Koizumi, one of Bush's closest
allies, a personal friend, and a staunch backer of the Iraq war.


The two leaders and White House aides went out of their way to
emphasize how chummy Bush and Abe were -- an obvious effort to
echo the warm personal relationship between Bush and Koizumi.


Abe referred to his host as "George" while the president referred
to the premier as "Shinzo," and offered his guest a choice
diplomatic plum: a visit to his Texas ranch.


"The biggest objective of this visit this time was to reaffirm
the irreplaceable Japan-US alliance and to grow this stronger as
an unshakeable alliance," Abe told a news conference.


Abe also renewed apologies over "comfort women" forced into
sexual slavery by Japan's military during World War II, after
sparking an uproar last month by saying there was no evidence
that the women were directly coerced.


Bush responded: "The comfort women issue was a regrettable
chapter in the history of the world and I accept the prime
minister's apology."


The Japanese premier later left the US capital on a five-day tour
of the Middle East, where he will visit Saudi Arabia, Egypt,
Kuwait, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates.

