

Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas held rare talks with exiled
Hamas political chief Khaled Meshaal in Cairo on Friday, their
first meeting since forming a coalition government, the official
MENA agency said.


"Abbas and Meshaal discussed...the internal situation, the
ceasefire, the prisoner exchange and efforts to lift the
sanctions," a Palestinian official at the talks told MENA.


They also discussed the political partnership between Hamas and
main rival Fatah, which is headed by Abbas, and the reactivation
of the Palestinian Liberation Organisation, the official said.


A Palestinian unity government, putting Fatah and Hamas around
the same cabinet table for the first time, took office on March
17 after Abbas and Meshaal reached a power-sharing agreement in
Saudi Arabia on February 8.


That deal sought to end months of factional fighting between
Fatah and Hamas supporters that left scores dead after Meshaal's
Islamist party won Palestinian legislative elections in January
2006.


The new government has since battled to end the diplomatic and
economic boycott imposed by the West on the previous Hamas-led
government for its refusal to recognise Israel and past Israeli-
Palestinian agreements.


The two stressed they would abide by the Mecca agreement and
"exert all efforts to stabilise the cease fire and expand it to
include the West bank," the official said.


On Thursday, an Egyptian official said Palestinian factions were
prepared to stand by a fragile truce which Hamas had declared
over this week after firing rockets into Israel.


Abbas is expected to meet with Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak
on Saturday.

