

European Union foreign policy chief Javier Solana called on
Friday for the United States to open a "channel of communication"
with Iran on all subjects.


"I think that at this point in time to have also the USA open a
channel of communication with Iran would be worth thinking about
... on everything," Solana said after talks on Tehran's nuclear
programme with the country's top negotiator Ali Larijani this
week.


"We have to see how much the USA are ready to engage," he said.


Solana and Larijani held talks in Ankara on Wednesday and
Thursday. These were their first face-to-face meetings since the
UN Security Council imposed a second round of limited sanctions
on Iran in March over Tehran's refusal to halt uranium
enrichment. More talks are scheduled in two weeks.


Solana, who represented in the talks the five permanent members
of the Security Council plus Germany, said on Friday that the
talks were "constructive conversations."


"They were constructive in the sense that it was some potential
motion that we have to see if we can exploit in a next meeting
we'll have in about ten days," he said.


"I don't want to say at all that the difficulties are overcome,
we have many important hurdles that have to be overcome, but we
have to be tenacious."


Washington, which broke off diplomatic relations with Iran in
1980, accuses Iran of wanting to develop nuclear weapons -- which
Tehran denies -- and of supporting insurgents in Iraq.


US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice may meet Iranian Foreign
Minister Manouchehr Mottaki at a conference on security in Iraq
in Egypt on May 3-4 but Iran has yet to confirm whether it will
attend.


US President George W. Bush has said Rice, who is set to attend
the conference, "could" hold bilateral talks with Mottaki at the
Red Sea resort should Iran decide to participate.


But he indicated that there would be no one-to-one talks outside
such a context or discussions about Tehran's nuclear programme.

