

Attacks against teachers and students have risen dramatically
over the past three years in conflict-torn Iraq and Afghanistan,
as well as in Colombia, Nepal and Thailand, UNESCO said in a
report released Friday.


Apart from bombing school buildings, teachers, students and
administrative staff have been targeted individually, the report
titled "Education Under Attack" by the UN Educational, Scientific
and Cultural Organisation says.


"The dramatic increase of attacks on education staff, students
and institutions over the past three years, and subsequent loss
of life, result from an abhorrent tactic of sacrificing the lives
of innocent young people ... for the sake of political or
ideological aims," the report says.


UNESCO said the attacks tend to be carried out by separatist,
sectarian or paramilitary armed groups.


Iraq has been the hardest hit. Since the fall of Saddam Hussein
in 2003, 280 academics have been killed.


Some 296 members of education staff were killed in 2005, while
180 teachers were killed between February and November 2006.


One hundred university students were killed in a series of
bombings in January, the report says. Only 30 percent of Iraq's
3.5 million pupils attend classes, compared to 75 percent last
school year, it says.


In Afghanistan, at least 75 professors and students were killed
in 2005 and 2006, the report says, citing figures from human
rights organisation Amnesty International.


Colombia has seen 310 teachers murdered between 2000 and 2006,
and some 11,000 children between 7 and 13 years old served as
combattants in 2003, the report says.


The recruiting of child soldiers has also been a problem in
Myanmar, the report says, where about 70,000 children were
enlisted in 2002.


Thousands of abductions of teachers and students have occurred in
Nepal. The report says 10,600 teachers and 22,000 students were
abducted by Maoists between 2002 and 2006.


In Thailand, 71 teachers were killed and 130 schools were burned
between 2004 and 2006, according to the report.

