

Bangladesh's military has no intention of grabbing power and will
return to barracks after cleaning up politics, the country's
powerful army chief was reported as saying on Saturday.


"The army will not be in politics. It is now assisting the
caretaker government. When the need is over, it will return to
barracks," Bengali daily Manabjamin quoted army chief Lieutenant
General Moeen U Ahmed as saying.


"One thing must be clear. Will the army grab power? We were under
intense pressure to take power. But we did not. We want that
democracy continues," Moeen told the national independent
newspaper.


"We have only one aim: rid the country of corruption. We will
have no compromise on corruption," he added.


The army chief made the statement just days after the military-
backed government appeared to backtrack from its plans to exile
the leaders of the country's two main political parties.


Bangladesh's emergency government initially barred Sheikh Hasina,
a former premier and leader of the Awami League, from returning
from holiday in the United States earlier this month but then
later said she could return.


Authorities had also been trying to force Sheikh Hasina's main
rival, Khaleda Zia, the country's last prime minister and leader
of the Bangladesh Nationalist Party (BNP), to leave the country.


Both Sheikh Hasina and Zia are accused of corruption, fomenting
political violence and misrule by opponents.


That led to a major political crisis in January which saw
parliamentary elections cancelled and a state of emergency
imposed.


While appearing to drop its exile plans for the two women, the
government  has brought murder and extortion charges against
Sheikh Hasina and has raised  the possibility of corruption
charges against both leaders.

