

Bundesliga leaders Schalke 04 slipped up in their bid to clinch
the German title with a 2-1 loss away to Vfl Bochum on Friday.


Schalke remain two points clear of second-placed Werder Bremen
who have a chance to take the lead with a win over Arminia
Bielefeld on Sunday.


Schalke went in front with an eighth minute goal from Germany
international Kevin Kuranyi.


But Bochum hit back, with Zvjezdan Misimovic bagging the 33rd
minute equalizer and Theofanis Gekas, the Bundesliga's top
scorer, coming up with the winner for his 19th goal of the season
four minutes before the break.


Schalke dominated the second period but were unable to find a way
to break down Bochum's defence.


Fourth-placed Bayern Munich host Hamburg on Saturday aiming to
atone for last weekend's defeat to third-placed Vfb Stuttgart.


Bayern have a five-point gap to close to secure a top-three
finish which will guarantee them a Champions League place next
year.


Failure to do so would mean they miss out on a place in Europe's
premier tournament for the first time in 11 years and the German
giants would have to swallow the bitter pill of life in the UEFA
Cup.


Bayern have injury problems with German striker Lukas Podolski
out for the rest of the season with a knee injury, while Mark van
Bommel (ankle), Owen Hargreaves (knee) and Claudio Pizarro are
all struggling to be fit.


But Bayern's Brazilian defender Lucio insists the fight for a
Champions League place is not over, even though the German giants
are running out of games, with four left including Saturday's
visit of Hamburg.

