

UN chief Ban Ki-moon called Friday for countries to destroy their
chemical arms, and for all countries to ratify the international
convention that bans such weapons of mass destruction.


"I call upon all possessor states to destroy their chemical
weapons stockpiles according to the agreed deadlines. I also urge
all governments that have not yet done so to ratify or accede to
the (Chemical Weapons) Convention without delay," Ban said in a
statement marking the 10th anniversary of the convention's entry
into force.


"The world has come a long way since the first large-scale use of
chemical weapons during the First World War, which inflicted
unspeakable horrors on its victims," the United Nations secretary
general said.


"However, a lot remains to be done. To date, more than 25 percent
of the states parties' declared chemical weapons stockpiles have
been eliminated under international verification."


In December, the member states of the Organization for the
Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW) granted an additional
delay to the United States, India, Russia and Libya for the
destruction of their chemical arms stockpiles.


The deadline for the destruction of all declared chemical weapons
initially had been set for Sunday, 10 years after the April 29,
1997 convention took effect.


To date 181 countries have ratified the Chemical Weapons
Convention. Eight nations, including Israel, have signed but not
ratified it. North Korea, Egypt, Lebanon and Syria have refused
to sign it.


The convention established The Hague-based OPCW, the world's
first chemical weapons watchdog agency, to eliminate chemical
weapons and to verify the destruction of stockpiles within
specific timeframes.

