

The grandfather and brother of two Greek youths charged with the
premeditated manslaughter of an 11-year-old boy were charged on
Friday with perjury, a local justice source said.


The men were also charged with aiding and abetting a criminal,
opening a new chapter in a case that last year sparked a media
frenzy in Greece.


Both charges carry a maximum sentence of five years.


The two Greek minors, along with two Albanians and a Romanian of
similar age, were charged with premeditated manslaughter in July
over the disappearance of 11 -year-old Alex Meskisvili in the
northern city of Veria.


One Albanian boy last month testified that the Greeks'
grandfather and elder brother were aware of the circumstances of
the incident, though the two adults later testified otherwise.


The five youths' parents have already been charged with negligent
supervision.


The youths, aged 12-15, deny beating the Georgian boy to death,
with the Albanians claiming he was seriously injured when they
were playing.


The local deputy prosecutor has also charged the youths with
disrespect for the dead after the Albanian boys admitted hiding
the victim inside an abandoned town house.


There has been no sign of missing Alex despite repeated searches
at the house and of a local river.


Greek news channels last year devoted extensive coverage to the
investigation, hosting interviews with criminologists,
psychologists and the suspects' lawyers on a daily basis.


According to reports, the missing boy's mother attempted to
commit suicide by taking sedatives last summer.


The Salonika prosecutor is also examining whether police in Veria
should be called to order for failing to shed light on the
missing boy's fate over a year after he disappeared.

