

German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier will travel to
the Middle East next week to take part in an international
conference on Iraqi security and hold talks with Israeli and
Palestinian leaders, his spokesman said Friday.


Steinmeier, whose country holds the rotating presidency of the
European Union and the Group of Eight club of rich nations, will
also visit Saudi Arabia during the six-day tour to attend a
meeting of the EU and the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC).


He will start the trip at the May 3-4 meeting in the Egyptian
resort of Sharm el-Sheikh bringing together the foreign ministers
of Iraq's neighbours and major world powers, spokesman Martin
Jaeger told a regular government news conference.


He will also hold informal talks with members of the Quartet for
Middle East peace, grouping the EU, the United States, the United
Nations and Russia, on the sidelines of the meeting, Jaeger said.


Germany has made reviving peace talks between Israel and the
Palestinians via the Quartet one of its top foreign policy
priorities under its six-month EU presidency.


Steinmeier is to travel Friday to the Palestinian territories for
talks with president Mahmud Abbas and continue on to Israel
Saturday for a meeting with Prime Minister Ehud Olmert to
encourage the "positive and constructive efforts" in the peace
process, Jaeger said.


He will travel to Riyadh Monday for talks with his Saudi
counterpart Saud al- Faisal before wrapping up the trip there
Tuesday at the conference of the 27-member EU and the GCC,
grouping Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the
United Arab Emirates.


The conference will focus on regional security and work toward
finalising a free-trade agreement.

