

Egypt has offered to send troops to the troubled Sudanese region
of Darfur to reinforce the African Union force that has failed to
quell violence there, the foreign ministry said on Saturday.


Foreign Minister Ahmed Abul Gheit said Egypt informed the United
Nations that it was ready to send at least 750 troops and at
least 100 military observers as part of a 3,000 strong UN force
due to bolster the AU force, ministry officials said.


Earlier this month, Khartoum accepted the second phase of a UN
plan to bring stability to Darfur. It would add the 3,000 UN
troops -- mostly military and police staff -- to provide
logistical, communications and air support to the under-manned
African Union force.


The three-phase plan floated last year by former UN chief Kofi
Annan is supposed to culminate with the deployment of UN
peacekeepers to bolster the embattled African force in Darfur.


But Sudanese President Omar al-Beshir has yet to agree to the
more contentious third phase, which provides for a much wider
deployment in which the UN will share command of the forces with
its counterparts.


Earlier this month, UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon appealed to
African countries to contribute troops both to the AU force and
to the eventual joint UN-AU peacekeeping operation.


US Deputy Secretary of State John Negroponte, after returning
from a trip to Sudan earlier this week, reiterated a warning from
President George W. Bush that Beshir's government would be hit by
US sanctions within weeks if he did not accept the full
deployment to Darfur of a UN-led peacekeeping force of some
20,000 troops.


At least 200,000 people have been killed in Darfur and more than
two million driven from their homes, according to the United
Nations.


Khartoum disputes those figures, but some sources say the death
toll is much higher.

