

A rare, moderate earthquake hit southeast England on Saturday,
toppling chimneys and alarming residents, but there were no
immediate reports of injuries, authorities said.


A spokesman for Kent's Fire and Rescue Service said they had
received "lots and lots" of calls from local people reporting
that "their chimneys have fallen down (and) large cracks in
people's houses."


Sky News reported some witnesses saying that they had been
evacuated from their homes and that their gas and electricity
supplies were cut off.


According to the US Geological Survey, the quake measured 4.7 on
the open-ended Moment Magnitude scale which is now used by US
seismologists.


Hendrick van Eck, 27, from the city of Canterbury, said that the
tremor lasted just a few seconds.


"I then heard the sound of cracking and it was getting heavier
and heavier. It felt as if someone was at the end of my bed
hopping up and down," he said.


Sharon Hayles, from the nearby village of Stanford, said it felt
like "the whole house was being slid across like a funfair ride."


The epicenter of the tremor, which the US Geological Survey said
occurred at 8:18 am local time (0718 GMT), was located 25
kilometres (15 miles) south of Canterbury.


The depth of the epicentre was put at 7.1 kilometres (4.4 miles).


Randy Baldwin, of the US Geological Survey, told BBC television
that the quake was "fairly light," adding that there had been two
or three others in the area over the last decade which were
"somewhat smaller" than Saturday's.


A spokesman for Eurostar, which links Britain to continental
Europe by rail, said that services at the Ashford terminal in
Kent, near where the quake hit, were unaffected.

