

Wall Street shook off early jitters sparked by a weak reading on
US economic growth and ended mixed Friday, with the blue-chip Dow
index eking out a small gain to hit a fresh all-time high.


The benchmark Dow Jones Industrial Average edged up 15.44 points
(0.12 percent) to close at 13,120.94, notching a third
consecutive record closing high.


The tech-heavy Nasdaq composite gained 2.75 points (0.11 percent)
to 2,557.21 while the broad-market Standard and Poor's 500 index
shed a fractional 0.18 points (0.01 percent) to 1,494.07.


The market action came after the government reported US gross
domestic product (GDP) growth cooled dramatically to a 1.3
percent pace in the first quarter of 2007, highlighting concerns
about a weakening US economy.


"The first-quarter real GDP report has served as a reminder that
the good earnings trends for the first quarter may not continue
into the second and third quarter," said Dick Green, analyst at
Briefing.com.


But Gregory Drahuschak at Janney Montgomery Scott said some
traders were already looking past the report, which covered the
January-March period.


"Today's relatively muted response to the lower-than-expected GDP
data shows the market is focused on a longer-term and much more
positive environment," Drahuschak said.


"There is a growing belief that the second half of 2007 will see
improvement in GDP to trend growth or close to it. This should
reinforce the earnings prop for the market. As long as rates do
not rise too much, this could provide a very good market
environment, particularly if inflation remains roughly where it
is now."


Even a jump in oil prices failed to derail the Wall Street
juggernaut. Crude oil futures gained 1.40 dollars to close at
66.46 dollars a barrel in New York.


A strong profit report from Microsoft after the close of trade
Thursday underpinned the tech sector and the Nasdaq. It was the
latest in a series of robust earnings reports for the first three
months of the year.


Shares in the world's biggest software maker jumped 1.03 dollars
or 3.5 percent to 30.13 after it reported a stronger-than
expected jump in earnings to 4.43 billion dollars in the quarter
to March 31.


Elsewhere, Chevron lost 10 cents to 78.08 as traders locked on
gains after the US oil giant said profits were better than
expected at 4.7 billion dollars.


Goodyear rallied 1.91 dollars or nearly six percent to 34.41
after the tire giant's disappointing earnings report showing a
steeper-than-expected loss was offset by news of a restructuring
plan cutting hundreds of jobs.


AT&T lost 32 cents to 38.64 as the telecom giant named a a
new chairman and chief executive, Randall Stephenson, who had
been chief operating officer, to replace Edward Whitacre, who is
getting a 158-million-dollar retirement package.


Bonds drifted lower, a possible reflection of the strong
inflation figures in the GDP report.


The yield on the 10-year US Treasury bond rose to 4.698 percent
from 4.684 percent Thursday, while the 30-year bond yielded 4.885
percent compared with 4.868 percent. Bond yields and prices move
in opposite directions.

