

European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso expressed
disappointment Friday at Russia's announcement that it was
suspending its participation in an arms treaty limiting the
number of military forces in Europe.


Russian President Vladimir Putin Putin stunned Western capitals
Thursday when he announced the suspension of Moscow's
participation in the Soviet-era Conventional Forces in Europe
(CFE) treaty.


"The announcement regarding CFE was, as others have said,
disappointing," Barroso said at the United Nations after meeting
with Secretary General Ban Ki- moon.


"It is sending a signal that is not the best signal, not the most
helpful for the kind of relations that we in Europe want to have
with Russia," he said.


"We in the European Commission will stay interested in developing
constructive, positive, strategic relations with Russia. Of
course, there are sometimes some difficulties, but I believe that
we can deal with those difficulties in a global, positive and
constructive framework," Barroso added.


He indicated he would address the issue during a regular EU-
Russia summit in Samara, Russia next month.


The accord was signed on November 19, 1990 in Paris by the North
Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) and the Warsaw Pact and
modified in 1999 after the fall of the Soviet Union and the East
bloc.


NATO called for clarification on Friday.


Putin said the suspension was in response to US plans to deploy
an anti-missile system in eastern Europe.


Barroso said that "regarding specific issues now about missiles,
those should have been dealt with in other fora, and we support
all efforts to create the best possible atmosphere between the
European Union and Russia."

