

Dutch bank ABN Amro said Friday it would grant Royal Bank of
Scotland and its consortium partners access to its accounts and
signalled its willingness to begin takeover talks.


ABN Amro added that the consortium had warned it would launch a
hostile bid for the group and would appeal directly to
shareholders if ABN Amro management refused to recommend its
offer.


In a frosty statement, management ABN Amro appeared to grudgingly
commit to talks aimed at "exploring the consortium's (takeover)
proposal in a constructive manner."


The RBS-led consortium is keen to buy the Dutch lender, but ABN
management has accepted a rival offer from Barclays of Britain
and had been holding off the consortium despite pressure from
shareholders.


The bidding group of Royal Bank of Scotland, Spain's Banco
Santander and Dutch- Belgian group Fortis has offered 72 billion
euros (98.4 billion dollar) for ABN Amro, a banking record that
exceeds the proposal by Barclays.


Key ABN Amro shareholders, including hedge fund TCI, had been
pressing management to negotiate with the consortium and had even
threatened legal action.


"In order to facilitate discussions, ABN Amro has therefore
decided to remove the customary requirement for a stand-still
provision and has offered the consortium access to due diligence
material," the bank added, removing key obstacles for the
consortium.


The terse statement stressed that the consortium had issued
information to the press without consulting ABN Amro, had shown
"unwillingness to pursue discussions on a constructive basis" and
had "refused" to provide information.


A takeover of ABN Amro would represent the biggest banking sector
acquisition in history, and create Europe's second-biggest bank,
the fifth biggest in the world.

