

AT&T chairman and chief executive Edward Whitacre will retire
with a 158.5 -million-dollar payout, figures released from a
corporate watchdog group showed Friday.


Whitacre's retirement was announced Friday by the US
telecommunications giant. He will be replaced by Randall
Stephenson, AT&T's chief operating officer, on June 3.


The retirement was announced at a shareholders meeting in San
Antonio, Texas. But the pay package was revealed in documents
sent to the US Securities and Exchange Commission in late March,
according to the Corporate Library, a research group focusing on
corporate governance.


The group said the payout was the third largest retirement
package in US corporate history after the 351 million dollars
awarded to departing ExxonMobil chairman Lee Raymond in 2005 and
the 202-million-dollar payout to Richard Handler, the former head
of Wall Street firm Jefferies and Co.


The retirement pay includes a number of components for Whitacre,
who will remain a consultant to AT&T over the next three
years. It includes the use of a company jet, automobile, and
medical care.


Some shareholders had asked for cutbacks to the package at
Friday's gathering.


According to AT&T, Whitacre, 65, led a "transformation of the
smallest 'Baby Bell' into the world's largest communications
company and reshaped the company and the industry during a period
of rapid technological change."


The Texas-born Whitacre, an engineer by training, has led the
company for the past 17 years.


He took over in 1990 when the firm was known as Southwestern
Bell, one of the "Baby Bells" created from the antitrust breakup
in the 1980s of American Telephone & Telegraph.


Through a series of mergers, Southwestern Bell became known as
SBC and eventually bought its former parent, AT&T, which had
been designated a long- distance calling company after the
breakup.

