

A onetime New York Mets employee pleaded guilty to distributing
steroids and human growth hormone to "dozens" of major league
baseball players, prosecutors said Friday.


Kirk J. Radomski pleaded guilty on Friday to one count each of
distribution of a controlled substance (anabolic steroids) and
money laundering," US attorney Scott N. Schools said in a
statement.


The guilty plea is the result of an investigation by the Internal
Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation and the Federal Bureau of
Investigation (FBI).


Radomski, 37, worked as a clubhouse assitant while with the Mets
from 1985-1995.


"In pleading guilty, Mr. Radomski admitted to distributing
anabolic steroids and other performance-enhancing drugs,
including Human Growth Hormone and Clenbuterol, as well as
amphetamines, to dozens of current and former Major League
Baseball players, and associates, on teams throughout Major
League Baseball," Schools said.


"He deposited the payments for those anabolic steroids into his
personal bank account and then used the proceeds to finance his
residence, which was the base of operation, warehouse, and
communication center for his anabolic steroid- dealing business."


Charlene B. Thornton, special agent in charge of the FBI's San
Francisco office said Radomski's guilty plea was the result of a
long-term probe of drugs in sports that is still ongoing.


Investigators used information from a confidential informant,
made undercover purchases from Radomski and finally searched
Radomski's home in 2005 - seizing "thousands of doses" of
performance enhancing drugs.


Radomski has agreed to cooperate with Major League Baseball's own
investigation into doping in the game, headed by former Senator
George Mitchell.


He is scheduld to be sentenced on September 7 before federal
judge Susan Illston in San Francisco.

