

Following is an encapsulation of the latest evidence on global
warming, published in reports issued in February and early April
by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC).


The UN's top scientific authority on global warming issues a
third report in Bangkok next Friday, this time touching on ways
of tackling greenhouse-gases.


PAST WARMING:


-- Evidence for Man's warming of the climate system is now
unequivocal. From 1906 to 2005, global surface temperatures rose
by 0.74 C (1.33 F).


-- Global warming over the past half century has been nearly
twice that of the century as a whole, coinciding with a surge in
greenhouse-gas emissions from fossil fuels. Eleven of the past 12
years rank among the dozen warmest years on record.


-- Ocean warming now extends to a depth of at least 3,000 metres
(9,750 feet) as the seas take up heat from the air. Mountain
glaciers and snow cover have declined in both hemispheres. Sea
levels rose globally by 1.8 millimetres (0.07 inches) per year
from 1961 to 2003, a pace that accelerated to 3.1 mm (0.12 inch)
per year from 1993 to 2003.


-- The top layers of the Arctic permafrost have warmed by up to
3.0 C (5.4 F) since the 1980s. The maximum area of seasonally
frozen ground has decreased by around seven percent in the
northern hemisphere since 1900.


FORECAST FOR 21ST CENTURY:


-- By 2100, global average surface temperatures could rise by
between 1.1 C (1.98 F) and 6.4 C (11.52 F) compared to 1980-99
levels, depending on levels of carbon dioxide (CO2) in the air.
Within this range, the likeliest rise will be 1.8-4.0 C (3.24-7.2
F).


-- Sea levels will rise by between 18 and 59 centimetres (7.2 and
23.2 inches), although this could be amplified by accelerating
melting of icesheets.


-- Warming will occur most over land at high northern latitudes
and least over the Southern Ocean and the North Atlantic.


-- Carbon emissions this century "will contribute to warming and
sea-level rise for more than a millennium", due to the timescale
required for greenhouse gases to degrade.


LIKELY IMPACTS THIS CENTURY:


-- Heatwaves, flooding, drought, tropical storms and surges in
sea level are among the events that "will become more frequent,
more widespread and/or more intense" this century.


-- By mid-century, water availability is likely to increase in
high latitudes but fall by up to 30 percent in mid-latitudes and
the dry tropics, some of which are already badly water-stressed.
Water from glaciers and snow melt is also projected to decline,
reducing resources for regions where more than a sixth of the
world population currently lives.


-- Between 20-30 percent of plant and animal species are likely
to be at increased risk of extinction if increases in global
average temperature exceed 1.5-2.5 C (2.7 F to 4.5 F).


-- Food production will rise slightly at mid-to-high latitudes if
the global temperatures increases 1-3 C (1.8-5.4 F) but fall
beyond this range. At lower latitudes, especially seasonally dry
and tropical regions, crop productivity is projected to decrease
for even small local temperature increases (1-2 C, or 1.8-3.6 F),
which would increase the risk of hunger.


-- By the 2080s, sea-level rise will place "many millions" of
people at risk of flooding and tropical storms. The mega-deltas
of Asia, Africa and small islands are the most vulnerable."


-- Malnutrition, deaths from heatwave, storms and drought,
diarrhoea, malaria and other pest-borne diseases are some of the
heightened risks.


ECONOMIC COST


-- There is no consensus on the cost of global warming, as
calculations depend on different factors, such as storm damage
and the impact on biodiversity. Every tonne of CO2 emitted into
the air costs from 10 dollars to 350 dollars, according to the
estimates.


-- Investing money now in measures to cope with the future threat
and reduce emissions could reduce and delay some of the impacts,
although these actions are also limited by political, technical
and financial constraints.

