

The governor of New York unveiled Friday legislation authorizing
marriage between homosexuals, a move likely to face stiff
opposition in the Republican- controlled state senate.


"This historic legislation would establish equal
responsibilities, recognition, benefits and protections for all
married couples," Governor Eliot Spitzer, a Democrat, said in a
statement.


"Strong, stable families are the cornerstones of our society. The
responsibilities inherent in the institution of marriage benefit
those individuals and society as a whole," he said.


The proposed law guarantees equal recognition and protection for
all couples. It also stipulates that no clergy member or
religious institution should be compelled to perform any same-sex
marriage ceremony.


The bill delivers an election campaign pledge Spitzer made in
2006.


Lambda Legal, an association at the vanguard of the fight to
legalize gay marriage, hailed the governor's measure, saying it
was aimed at "treating all New Yorkers fairly."


"We expect the legislature to give the marriage bill the full
attention and serious deliberation it deserves," the group said.


But the measure likely will face strong headwinds in a state
senate headed by Republican leader Joseph Bruno, a longtime foe
of authorizing same-sex marriage.


Spitzer's move follows a vote in New Hampshire Thursday that
approved civil unions for same-sex partners, adding the
northeastern state to a small but growing group of US states
giving various degrees of legal recognition to gay partnerships.


In 2004, Massachusetts became the only US state to recognize full
marriage rights for same-sex couples.

