

The United States will wait till September to make its first
formal assessment of whether a US troop "surge" now under way in
Iraq is producing results, The New York Times reported on its
website Friday.


Citing unnamed senior administration officials, the newspaper
said many top advisers of President George W. Bush now anticipate
that even by then any gains will be limited.


In interviews over the past week, the officials made clear that
the White House is gradually scaling back its expectations for
the government of Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki, the report said.


The timelines they are now discussing suggest that the White
House may maintain the increased numbers of American troops in
Iraq well into next year, the paper said.


That prospect would entail a dramatically longer commitment of
frontline troops, patrolling the most dangerous neighborhoods of
Baghdad, than the one envisioned in legislation that passed the
House and Senate this week, The Times said.


The bill, which the president has promised to veto, sets
deadlines that would lead to the withdrawal of combat troops by
the end of March 2008.


Several US officials who have spoken recently with Maliki say
they believe that he would like to achieve the kind of political
reconciliation that Bush outlined in January as the ultimate goal
of the troop increase, the report said.


But they say the Iraqi prime minister appears to have little
ability to manage the required legislation, including bills
requiring fair distribution of oil revenues among Iraq's Sunnis,
Shiites and Kurds, and reversing de-Baathification that has
barred many Sunnis from participation in the new government, The
Times said.

