

Insurgents in Iraq will seek to kidnap Prince Harry when the army
sends him there, a commander of Iraq's biggest Shiite Muslim
militia, the Mahdi Army, said in remarks published Saturday.


"One of our aims is to capture Harry, we have people inside the
British bases to inform us on when he will arrive," Abu Mujtaba,
a commander in the southern city of Basra, told The Guardian.


"We have a special unit that would work to track him down, with
informants inside the bases," according to the commander of the
militia led by radical cleric Moqtada al-Sadr, quoted by the
newspaper.


"Not only us, the Mahdi army, that will try to capture him, but
every person who hates the British and the Americans will try to
get him," he was quoted as saying.


"All the mujahedeen in Iraq, the Al-Qaeda, the Iranians all will
try to get him," he was quoted as saying.


The Guardian said it had no independent evidence to back up his
claims that militias have infiltrated British bases, or set up a
unit to kidnap Prince Harry, who is third in line to the throne.


The newspaper quoted British defence sources as denouncing the
commander's remarks as "blatant propaganda."


Defence officials said Thursday that Britain's army chiefs are
reviewing plans to send Prince Harry to Iraq amid fears he could
be targeted, but friends downplayed warnings he may quit if
prevented from going.


The Ministry of Defence said the 22-year-old's imminent
deployment was under "constant consideration," after a newspaper
report said army bosses were reviewing the decision amid a spike
in British deaths in Iraq.


Harry is known as Cornet Wales in the Blues and Royals regiment
of the Household Cavalry, in which he is responsible for 11
soldiers and four Scimitar reconnaissance vehicles.


A Household Cavalry source warned that Harry would resign if he
could not serve on the front line.

