

A top Al-Qaeda commander who led operations in Afghanistan and
plotted the assassination of Pakistan's President Pervez
Musharraf has been taken into US custody, the Pentagon said
Friday.


Abd al Hadi al-Iraqi, who was taken to Guantanamo Bay, Cuba
within the past week, was intercepted as he was trying to reach
Iraq to manage Al-Qaeda operations and possibly plot attacks
against western targets outside Iraq, Pentagon spokesman Bryan
Whitman said.


Whitman said al-Iraqi "was one of Al-Qaeda's highest ranking and
senior operatives at the time of his detention."


He was a key Al-Qaeda commander in the late 1990s, and from 2002
to 2004 was in charge of cross-border attacks against coalition
forces in Afghanistan, working directly with the Taliban, he
said.


"He also in recent years was involved in plots to assassinate
perceived opponents of Al-Qaeda to include Pakistan President
Musharraf as well as other officials," he said.


Al-Iraqi was held by the Central Intelligence Agency before being
turned over to US military authorities, said Whitman.


In a note to CIA employees, director Michael Hayden said the
agency played a "key role in efforts to locate him," and called
al-Iraqi's capture "a triumph on which we must continue to
build."


Hayden also defended the CIA's interrogation program, which
President George W. Bush acknowledged in September involved tough
"alternative" interrogation practices.


"The information it has produced has prevented terrorist attacks
and saved innocent lives," Hayden said. "It's methods are legal,
thoroughly reviewed by our government to ensure that they are
fully in accordance with our laws and treaty obligations."


On September 6, Bush announced that all high value prisoners
being held by the CIA at secret overseas detention centers had
been transferred to Guantanamo.


A US intelligence official, who spoke on condition of anonymity,
said al-Iraqi was captured late last year, well after the
president's announcement, as part of a complex international
operation.


But Amnesty International said the announcement raised questions
about how many more people are being held by the CIA, where they
were being held and whether al-Iraqi was subjected to the
"alternative" interrogation techniques.


The lack of information "only adds to the deep concerns
surrounding the United States' conduct in the so-called 'war on
terror,'" the human rights group said.


News of the capture was welcomed by Pakistan and hailed by
Afghanistan as "a major success."


The Pentagon and the CIA declined to comment on where al-Iraqi
was captured, whether US forces were directly involved, or where
he was held.


"At the time of his capture he was trying to return to his native
country, Iraq, to manage Al-Qaeda's affairs and possibly focus on
operations outside Iraq against western targets," Whitman said.
"He was intercepted before he got there."


Whitman said al-Iraqi also met with Al-Qaeda members in Iran, but
would not say when.


A fact sheet released by the Pentagon said al-Iraqi believed that
Al-Qaeda members in Iran "should be doing more with the fight,
including supporting efforts in Iraq and causing problems within
Iran."


As a senior Al-Qaeda planner and operative, al-Iraqi "had
fundamental responsibility for Al-Qaeda operations in that whole
stretch of the world as well as other responsibilities," the
intelligence official said.


"I would think of him in relation to the plot against Musharraf
as someone who had a leadership or guiding role," he said.


He was born in the northern Iraqi city of Mosul in 1961 and
served in the Iraqi military before going to Afghanistan where he
spent 15 years, it said.


Before the September 11, 2001 attacks, he was a member of the Al-
Qaeda military committee that oversaw terrorist and guerrilla
operations and paramilitary training, according to the Pentagon.


He also was a member of a 10-member group of advisors to Osama
bin Laden, and was known and trusted by the Al-Qaeda leader and
his deputy Ayman Al-Zawahiri, the Pentagon said.


It said that at one point he was Zawahiri's caretaker and that he
interacted with top Al-Qaeda planners and decision makers such as
Khalid Sheikh Mohammad, Abu Faraj al-Libi, Hamza Rabi'a and Abd
al-Rahman al Mujair.


More recently, he associated with leaders of other extremist
groups allied with Al-Qaeda in Afghanistan and Pakistan,
including the Taliban, it said.


He worked "directly with the Taliban to determine responsibility
and lines of communication between Taliban and Al-Qaeda leaders
in Afghanistan, specifically with regard to the targeting of US
forces," it said.

