

Dozens of scientists are fighting to keep Scotland part of
Britain, British finance minister Gordon Brown said Friday during
campaigning ahead of elections to the Scottish parliament.


The Scottish Nationalist Party (SNP) is hoping to become the
largest party in the parliament after the May 3 elections.


They would use that majority to set the region on course to
independence from the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland.


But Brown, a Scotsman who hopes to succeed Tony Blair as Labour
prime minister this year, said 61 scientists would make a public
declaration Saturday that it was in the interest of science for
Scotland to remain part of Britain.


"We thrive best, as they rightly say, because we are part of the
UK research system and they do their greatest work as part of the
United Kingdom," he said in a campaign speech in Glasgow.


"Far from being a barrier to invention, the United Kingdom has
been the framework that has helped Scots create the inventions
and find the cures which have built our name around the world,"
he said.


He accused the SNP of seeking to wreak havoc.


"You would create conflict that would make the economy and
society of Scotland more unstable, instead of building stability
for the future."


Scotland had just nine percent of the UK population but Scottish
scientists won 12 percent of total UK funding council resources
for research, he added.


"Of the world's top 200 universities, Scotland has three -- more
than Ireland, Iceland and Norway combined," he said.


"All of this is at risk if Britain is broken up," he said.


The SNP is currently leading Brown's governing Labour Party in
polls for the elections and have vowed to publish plans for a
referendum on independence within the first 100 days of coming to
power, with a vote to be held in 2010.

