

South Korea may take over a Macau Bank to help resolve a dispute
over North Korean funds held there, a report said Saturday, in an
effort to unblock a deal to scrap Pyongyang's nuclear programme.


Yonhap news agency quoted an unidentified diplomatic source
visiting China as saying that participants in six-party talks
with North Korea were studying this option to settle the row that
has been holding up a disarmament deal.


Under this scenario, South Korea's state buyout company, the
Korea Asset Management Corp. (KAMCO), would acquire Banco Delta
Asia (BDA), from which the North Korean funds are currently
unable to be transferred to other banks.


The dispute over North Korean accounts, which had been frozen in
Macau's Banco Delta Asia (BDA) at US instigation, has blocked any
progress on the February 13 six-nation deal.


The North, which tested an atomic weapon last October, says it
will take the first step to shut down its Yongbyon reactor as
soon as it receives the 25 million dollars in the accounts.


Chosun Sinbo, a pro-Pyongyang newspaper published in Japan
confirmed Friday North Korea's position that the funds must be
transferred to other banks, so it can confirm it can freely
transfer funds internationally once again.


After the US Treasury blacklisted BDA in September 2005 on
suspicion of money- laundering and handling the North's
counterfeit notes, a series of other banks in Asia were persuaded
to stop handling Pyongyang's business -- making even legitimate
transactions difficult.


The February agreement set April 14 as the deadline for the North
to shut down its Yongbyon nuclear reactor as the first step in
scrapping its nuclear programmes. This slipped by because of the
bank dispute.


Washington says the funds have been freed for collection and it
has done all that it should.

