

Insurgents killed four employees from the Iraqi Red Crescent and
nine others in three separate attacks in Baghdad's southern
districts on Saturday, a security official said.


At least two more people were shot dead outside the capital.


Four Iraqi humanitarian workers were killed and three others
wounded when gunmen ambushed their minibus in the capital's mixed
Sunni-Shiite Baghdad district of Zafaraniyah, the official said.


No other details were immediately available on the attack, he
said.


Also in Zafaraniyah, a group of rubbish collectors was hit by a
roadside bomb, which killed one and wounded eight others, the
official said.


In nearby Saydiyah, another mixed district, unidentified gunmen
shot dead five civilians and wounded one more, he added.


In Al-Risala district, also located in southern Baghdad, a series
of mortar rounds slammed into a residential area killing three
people and wounding 10 others, including women and children, the
official said.


Insurgents have carried out a steady stream of attacks in
Baghdad, including high-profile car bombs, despite a massive 10
-week-old security crackdown by Iraqi and US troops in the
capital since February 14.


While US commanders say the number of sectarian death squad
murders has come down by about a third since the plan was
launched, bomb attacks have kept up the overall level of
casualties.


In the northern city of Mosul, unknown gunmen ambushed and killed
Abdullah Mohammed, who had been a major in Saddam Hussein's now
disbanded army, in the Wahda neighbourhood, said police Major
Mohammed Ahmed.


Ahmed said Mosul police had also found three unidentified
corpses.


Further south, in the mainly Sunni town of Samarra, unidentified
attackers opened fire on a policeman out shopping in the city
centre, killing him immediately, said Lieutenant Ziad Ahmed of
the local police.

