

US shares ended mostly higher Tuesday as the main blue-chip index
flirted with an all-time record high and Wall Street was buoyed
by upbeat earnings news and hints that inflation may be easing.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average climbed 52.74 points (0.41
percent) to 12,773.20 at the closing bell. The benchmark index
briefly moved above its all- time closing high of 12,786.64,
reached in February, but then eased back.


The Nasdaq composite index, meanwhile, fell 1.38 points (0.05
percent) to 2,516.95 and the broad-market Standard and Poor's 500
index edged up 2.87 points (0.20 percent) to a preliminary close
of 1,471.34.


Traders mulled generally positive economic news a day after a
rally that lifted the broad market up more than one percent.


US housing starts increased 0.8 percent in March, the Commerce
Department said in a report defying many forecasts for more
declines in the troubled property market.


A separate report showed US consumer prices rose 0.6 percent in
March but the "core" inflation rate that excludes volatile food
and energy costs showed a modest 0.1 percent rise.


Some analysts say the core is more important because it gives a
better indication of future inflation trends. The latest data
would keep the core rate within the "comfort zone" of the Federal
Reserve even though core prices are up 2.5 percent in the past 12
months.


Citigroup economist Steven Wieting said the inflation news was
"comforting" and the housing report suggested the worst may be
over: "the construction data show more signs of bottoming than
otherwise."


Earnings from Coca-Cola and Johnson & Johnson followed a
recent trend of beating market expectations, setting a positive
tone.

