

South Africa were 85-1 after 10 overs of their World Cup Super
Eights match against England here on Tuesday chasing 155 to win
and book a place in the semi- finals.


Captain Graeme Smith was on 35 with Jacques Kallis on nought.


AB de Villiers was the first man out caught by wicket-keeper Paul
Nixon off Andrew Flintoff for 42.


Earlier, Andrew Hall finished with 5-18 while fellow-paceman
Andre Nel took 3-35 on a lively Kensington Oval pitch.


It all began with Nel, who grabbed two big wickets in his fiery
opening three overs. The tall paceman dismissed struggling
skipper Michael Vaughan and in-form Kevin Pietersen (three) to
put England on the back foot.


Hall then put paid to England's hopes of recovering from these
setbacks as he struck in quick succession during his disciplined
spell, which saw England lose their last seven wickets for a
paltry 43 runs.


Both the teams need a victory in this game to enchance their
chances of making it to the last-four, with South Africa having
six points from six matches and England four from five.


Defending champions Australia, New Zealand and Sri Lanka have
already advanced to the semi-finals.


England failed to raise their batting performance when it
mattered most, with Andrew Strauss (46), Paul Collingwood (30)
and Ravi Bopara (27 not out) offering some resistance against an
inpsired South African pace attack.


Pietersen was involved in a brief fascinating duel with South
Africa, the country of his birth. He was tested by Nel with a
bouncer and was struck on the body off the next delivery.


Pietersen, the only England batsman consistently among runs in
the previous matches, looked subdued during his brief stay at the
crease before falling to a diving catch at mid-off of Nel.


South Africa skipper Graeme Smith, who has been involved in a war
of words with Pietersen, dived forward to bring off a low catch
to spark wild on-field celebrations.

