

The Church of England's second most senior cleric on Tuesday held
a prayer vigil for the kidnapped BBC Gaza correspondent Alan
Johnston amid unconfirmed reports that he has been killed.


Archbishop of York John Sentamu lit a candle surrounded by barbed
wire and led his staff in prayers for about 25 minutes in the
chapel at his official residence, Bishopthorpe Palace, near York,
northern England.


Trained lawyer Sentamu, who fled Idi Amin's Uganda in the 1970s,
used his Easter sermon to call for 44-year-old Johnston's release
and on Tuesday praised the journalist for being a "wonderful
voice of sanity" in a troubled region.


"We light a candle to show the hope that burns in our hearts for
the safe return of Alan and all those who are at risk of violence
and kidnap in the Middle East," he said.


"We say prayers to ask that God may soften the hearts and bring
wisdom to the minds of those who carry out such acts. The
destructive path of violence cannot be the answer -- whether it
be Palestine, south London or Virginia."


This was a reference to a recent spate of shootings among young
men in the British capital and the death Monday of at least 30
people at Virginia Tech university in the United States.


He added: "We come to God on our knees with a yearning for
justice in our world and a longing for the safe return of Alan
Johnston."


Sentamu's intervention comes on the day Palestinian reporters
held a solidarity protest in Gaza and 24 hours after thousands of
Johnston's BBC colleagues held a silent vigil across Britain and
in Brussels.


Johnston, one of the few Western reporters to have both lived and
worked in the territory, was kidnapped at gunpoint as he returned
home from work on March 12.


On Sunday, a little-known Islamist group said it had killed the
television and radio journalist but there has been no independent
verification of their claims.

