

Undefeated Miguel Cotto of Puerto Rico and US challenger Zab
Judah began their verbal sparring here Tuesday ahead of their
June 9 showdown for Cotto's World Boxing Association welterweight
crown.


Cotto, 29-0 with 24 knockouts, will make his third consecutive
appearance at Madison Square Garden here on the eve of the city's
annual Puerto Rican Day parade, this time facing Brooklyn-born
Judah, 34-4 with 25 knockouts.


"I'm going to rain on his parade - literally," Judah boasted at a
news conference. "On June 9, I'm going to sink his boat. Latinos
already know it. I will have more Latino fans than he will at the
Garden.


"There's a new Grand Marshall in town and his name is Zab Judah."


Cotto, a veteran of six years as a pro fighter at age 26, was
ready to silence Judah, 29, where it matters most, in the ring.


"Judah talks too much," Cotto said. "He may be a great fighter
but he's not the best fighter and I will teach him that
difference when we meet in the ring. I promise I will be focused
and show all my power."


Cotto won the vacant WBA welterweight crown last December,
stopping compatriot Carlos Quintana in the fifth round, and
defended his title with an 11th-round knockout of Turkey's Oktay
Urkal last month.


"I've got to give it to you. You are young. You are determined.
But I've got to tell you right now you are going to go down and I
am going to the Puerto Rico parade wearing your title belt and
your parade sash," Judah taunted.


Judah, an undisputed junior lightweight champion in 2004, lost a
12-round decision to undefeated Floyd Mayweather a year ago in
Las Vegas and was banned for a year because of a scuffle in the
10th round of that fight.


"I have been in training and I am going hard and I can't wait,"
Judah said. "A win for Cotto over Zab Judah is huge for his
career. A win for Zab Judah over Miguel Cotto is huge for my
career, it puts me right back up there."

