

US shares ended mostly higher Tuesday as the main blue-chip index
flirted with an all-time record high and Wall Street was buoyed
by upbeat earnings news and hints that inflation may be easing.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average climbed 52.74 points (0.41
percent) to 12,773.20 at the closing bell. The benchmark index
briefly moved above its all- time closing high of 12,786.64,
reached in February, but then eased back.


The Nasdaq composite index, meanwhile, fell 1.38 points (0.05
percent) to 2,516.95.


The broad-market Standard and Poor's 500 index edged up 3.01
points (0.20 percent) to 1,471.48, reaching its highest level
since September 2000.


"Stronger-than-expected economic and earnings reports got the
credit for today's showing," said Al Goldman at AG Edwards.


US housing starts increased 0.8 percent in March, the Commerce
Department said in a report defying many forecasts for more
declines in the troubled property market.


A separate report showed US consumer prices rose 0.6 percent in
March but the "core" inflation rate that excludes volatile food
and energy costs showed a modest 0.1 percent rise.


Some analysts say the core is more important because it gives a
better indication of future inflation trends. The latest data
would keep the core rate within the "comfort zone" of the Federal
Reserve even though core prices are up 2.5 percent in the past 12
months.


Citigroup economist Steven Wieting said the inflation news was
"comforting" and the housing report suggested the worst may be
over: "the construction data show more signs of bottoming than
otherwise."


Earnings from Coca-Cola and Johnson & Johnson helped the
blue-chip index as they followed a recent trend of beating market
expectations.


Coca-Cola shares rallied 1.30 dollars to 51.57 as the beverage
giant reported first-quarter profit rose 14 percent to 1.26
billion dollars as weak sales in the US were offset by big
increases in China, Russia and other emerging markets.


Johnson & Johnson, meanwhile, climbed 1.53 dollars to 64.55
as the pharmaceutical and consumer products giant reported a
quarterly profit of 2.6 billion dollars. Although lower than last
year, the profit topped Wall Street forecasts.


Also in focus was Intel, the computer-chip giant which reported
earnings after the close. Intel shares gained 29 cents to 20.98.


After the bell, Intel said its profit rose 18.6 percent from a
year ago, in line with forecasts, to 1.61 billion dollars as the
chip giant avoided some of the price cuts that hurt earnings in
the past.


Google lost 1.47 to 472.80 ahead of its earnings report this
week. The Internet giant said it was preparing to offer free
software to compete with Microsoft PowerPoint for graphic
presentations.


Bonds firmed. The yield on the 10-year US Treasury bond dropped
to 4.688 percent from 4.735 percent and that on the 30-year bond
declined to 4.847 percent against 4.890 percent. Bond yields and
prices move in opposite directions.

