

Roger Federer overpowered determined Italian Andreas Seppi 7-6
(7/4), 7-6 (8/6) to snap a rare two-match losing streak and move
into the third round of the Monte Carlo Masters on Tuesday.


The Swiss world number one was coming off a miserable March in
the United States, where he went down twice to Argentine
Guillermo Canas on hardcourts.


But after working with legendary trainer Tony Roche to polish up
his sparkling game, the top seed regained his equilibrium with
his first match this season on the red dirt surface.


It took one hour, 48 minutes for the winner of three of last
year's four Grand Slams to go through against the feisty German-
speaking Seppi from Bolzano.


Federer improved to 15-2 on the season a he aims to advance a
step further than last spring's losing final appearance against
Rafael Nadal.


Seppi, ranked 101, was far from overwhelmed in his first meeting
with the Swiss, who lost three finals on clay last spring to
Nadal including Roland Garros.


Seppi saved three set points in the opener on Federer backhand
errors as he took the set to a tiebreaker which Federer won on
his fourth attempt.


The second set was equally gruelling, the Swiss finally getting
home on his third match point when Seppi hit the net.


Federer clocked six aces and broke on three of nine occasions as
he found his feet on clay in his 2007 debut on the surface.


In another second-round contest after byes for leading seeds,
South Korea's Lee Hyung-taik put out Russian number 13 seed
Mikhail Youzhny, February's Rotterdam winner and losing finalist
to Federer in Dubai, 6-4, 6-3.


Three seeds advanced in first-round play, with number ten Czech
Tomas Berdych advancing when Spain's Nicolas Almagro was unable
to continue with the score at 5-0.


French 11th seed Richard Gasquet made heavy weather of a three-
hour-plus win over Spain's Fernando Verdasco, a 7-5, 6-7 (12-14),
7-6 (7-3) marathon.


"The only thing I can say is that it would have been very tough
to lose," said the relieved winner.


"The match was tough, I'm very pleased that I fought until the
end. This is the only thing I want to remember.  Mentally and
physically it was tough."


Spain's 12th seed David Ferrer beat Frenchman Gilles Simon 6-3,
6-1.

