

The United Nations and African Union ended talks on Darfur here
Tuesday, pressing Sudan to implement swiftly its pledge to allow
3,000 UN personnel into the war-torn region.


"While we were encouraged by the positive signs we have received
from the Sudanese government, the more important thing is how to
implement these agreements," UN chief Ban Ki-moon after a second
day of talks with African Union (AU) Commission chairman Alpha
Oumar Konare.


Khartoum Monday consented to the deployment of 3,000 UN personnel
-- mostly military and police staff -- and six attack helicopters
to provide logistical, communications, intelligence and air
support to 7,000 under-equipped AU troops that have failed to
stem four years of bloody ethnic strife in Darfur.


Ban said both the United Nations and African Union have agreed to
move swiftly to implement the deal so that they can move to the
third and final phase of their plan for a joint peacekeeping
operation involving some 20,000 troops in Darfur.


He also pressed Khartoum and all Darfur rebel groups to enforce
the peace agreement signed last May and tasked UN special envoy
for Darfur Jan Eliasson and his AU counterpart Selim Ahmad Selim
"to come up with a more detailed and workable roadmap for a
political process."


The UN secretary general also urged the 15-member Security
Council to authorize funding for the peacekeeping operation.


"Robust funding and support for this (UN) peacekeeping operation
heavy support package (the 3,000-strong force), as well as AMIS
(the AU force) is crucial," Ban said.


More than 200,000 people are estimated to have been killed and
two million others displaced in Darfur since 2003 when government
forces and allied Janjaweed Arab militias began fighting with
rebel groups who had taken up arms in protest at the distribution
of resources.


Khartoum disputes those figures, but some sources say the death
toll is much higher.

