

The United States has received no notification from North Korea
than it has started closing its nuclear reactor as required under
a six-nation deal, a senior US official said Tuesday.


But State Department spokesman Sean McCormack declined to comment
on reports that US spy satellites had spotted unusual movement
Monday at the Yongbyon reactor in a possible sign it was
preparing to shut the facility.


"We haven't received any formal notification from the North
Koreans that they are at this point taking steps to fulfil their
obligations under the February 13 agreements: shutting down and
sealing the Yongbyon plant," McCormack told reporters.


"Beyond that, I can't comment on intelligence-related matters --
what we may or may not know," he said.


Under the February agreement, Pyongyang was to have shut and
sealed Yongyon by Saturday, April 14 in return for fuel aid and a
start to normalizing relations with Washington.


But Pyongyang ignored the deadline, citing an unresolved dispute
over North Korean funds frozen in a Macau bank due to US
sanctions.


South Korea's Dong-A Ilbo newspaper reported earlier Tuesday that
US spy satellites on Monday spotted unusual movement of people
and vehicles around the cooling tower and parking lot at
Yongbyon,


The US and South Korea believed it was likely the activities were
part of operations to close down the reactor, which experts say
has provided North Korea with enough plutonium to make six to 12
nuclear weapons, it said.


South Korea's National Intelligence Service (NIS) confirmed to
AFP that "unusual movements" had been spotted around the reactor
but could not say what they might mean.


The reports raised hopes that Pyongyang may be preparing to take
the first step agreed to in the February pact reached with China,
Japan, Russia, South Korea and the United States.

