

European stock markets closed mixed on Tuesday, as the London
market was hit by inflation fears in Britain while Frankfurt
gained on news of buoyant confidence in the German economy.


In London the FTSE 100 index shed 0.28 percent to 6,497.80
points, in Paris the CAC 40 fell 0.07 percent to 5,858.14 points,
while in Frankfurt the Dax rose 0.15 percent to 7,348.83 points.


The DJ Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone blue chip shares gained
0.12 percent to 4,384.38 points.


The euro stood at 1.3567 dollars. The pound meanwhile soared as
high as 2.0074 dollars, last seen in September 1992.


The British market was affected by data showing that annual
inflation had raced to 3.1 percent in March, intensifying
speculation that interest rates would rise from 5.25 percent to
5.50 percent in Britain next month.


Rising interest rates weigh heavily on the stock market because
they increase loan repayments, thereby weighing on companies'
costs and biting into profits. They also reduce disposable income
available to consumers for the purchase of goods and services.


In Germany, the latest survey from the ZEW economic research
institute showed that investors in Germany are convinced that the
German economy will continue to grow robustly this year, despite
the strength of the euro, rising oil prices and the prospect of
higher interest rates.


The ZEW economic expectations index, based on a poll of 320
analysts and institutional investors, rose by 10.7 points to plus
16.5 points in April, its highest level since June 2006.


"This is very bullish news for the economy and for growth and
underlines that there is a spring fever in full swing in
Germany," said analyst David Brown from Bear Stearns.


US shares traded mostly higher Tuesday as the market appeared to
keep some momentum from a big rally in the prior session amid
generally positive economic and corporate news.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average climbed 0.38 percent to
12,768.32 at 1445 GMT, within 20 points of its all-time closing
high hit in February.


The Nasdaq composite rose a fractional 0.01 percent to 2,518.46
while  broad- market Standard and Poor's 500 index edged up 0.25
percent to 1,472.19.


European equities had sparkled on Monday, with London's FTSE 100
shares index hitting the highest close since September 2000 as
investors spied a potential bidding war for Dutch bank ABN Amro.


"We're perhaps seeing an element of profit taking (on Tuesday)
following the strong gains we saw yesterday," said Robert Parkes,
an equity strategist at HSBC.


Japanese share prices were also hit by profit-taking on Tuesday
as investors turned cautious ahead of upcoming company results,
dealers said.


In Asian trading on Tuesday, Tokyo's benchmark Nikkei-225 index
of leading shares fell 0.57 percent to 17,527.45 points.


Hong Kong's key Hang Seng Index closed up 0.15 percent at
20,788.61 points after a see-saw trading session.


Elsewhere in Europe, in Madrid the Ibex 35 fell 0.36 percent to
14,966 points, in Milan the SP/Mib gained 0.08 percent to 43,476
points, in Amsterdam the AEX gained 0.11 percent to 532.68 points
and in Brussels the Bel 20 fell 0.28 percent to 4,602.16 points.

