

Belgrade on Tuesday warned Washington against unilaterally
recognising the independence of Kosovo, the tiny southern
province of Serbia with an ethnic Albanian majority.


"The Serbian government is giving a timely warning that Belgrade
will reject any recognition of Kosovo's independence as invalid
since it will be nothing but direct interference in Serbia's
internal affairs," the government said.


Serbia "once again gives a clear warning that the UN Security
Council Resolution 1244 explicitly establishes and confirms the
sovereignty and territorial integrity of Serbia in Kosovo," it
said in a statement.


"Any recognition of the independence of Kosovo will be in brutal
violation of the UN norms, the UN Charter and the valid
Resolution 1244," it added.


Resolution 1244 was passed by the Security Council in 1999 after
NATO bombing helped to drive out Serbian forces engaged in a
brutal crackdown on ethnic Albanians in Kosovo.


The UN Security Council will in the coming weeks debate an
independence proposal unveiled by UN special envoy Martti
Ahtisaari late last month.


In Tuesday's statement, the government of nationalist Serbian
Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica was reacting to statements by
US Under Secretary of State Nicholas Burns.


The United States "fully supports" Ahtisaari's plan, Burns told
the House Foreign Affairs Committee.


"In particular, we believe that supervised independence for
Kosovo is now the only way forward," said Burns, the under
secretary for political affairs.


In a separate statement, Serbian President Boris Tadic said
Belgrade would "fight for its state and national interests as
well as for the preservation of its territorial integrity and
sovereignty by all diplomatic and legal means."


Serbia is adamantly opposed to independence for a province it
regards as the cradle of its civilisation.

