

Burundi, Rwanda and the Democratic Republic of Congo on Tuesday
relaunched the Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries
(CEPGL), an organisation that has been dormant for 13 years.


Diplomatic heads from the three nations participated in the
meeting, which will relaunch an organisation begun in 1976 but
inactive because of war and rebellion that has plagued the
region.


Belgian Foreign Minister Karel De Gucht was also in Bujumbura for
the occassion, representing the former colonial power in the
three nations.


"We are going to relaunch the CEPGL. The revival of economic
cooperation between Rwanda, the DRC and Burundi is very important
for this region from an economic point of view but also from a
political one. This cooperation, if well- developed, will ensure
lasting piece and stability in this region," the Belgian minister
said.


"The CEPGL has been active in the past, but the war that has
ravaged the region has brought its activity to almost zero," he
said.


The relaunch program includes a budget for the first year of
970,000 dollars, financed primarily by Belgium and the European
Union, and the creation of an interim executive secretary.


The organisation will permit the free movement of people and
goods within the region, and plans to create a regional bank and
an institute for agricultural research.


The Great Lakes Countries were plagued by violence in the 1990s,
with the beginning of the ongoing civil war in Burundi in 1993,
the Rwandan genocide in 1994, which was followed by rebellions
and regional warfare in the DRC.

