

Hundreds of French Asians gathered Tuesday in Paris to sound out
the main parties in this week's presidential election in the name
of their community, estimated at some 400,000 voters.


The non-partisan rally at the French Senate drew some 300 people,
from China, Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos, as well as
representatives of the right-wing presidential frontrunner
Nicolas Sarkozy, the Socalist Segolene Royal and the centrist
Francois Bayrou.


Several participants called for a big push to more Asian
immigrants into French politics, where they, like other ethnic
minorities, are severely underrepresented.


"It is time for us to commit, visibly, actively and
constructively," said  an official from the Initiative Club for
French people of Asian Origin (CIFOA) which organised the event.


"It's a shame there are no French people of Asian origin in the
National Assembly. Our parents' priorities were to work to feed
the family -- it's up to us to get involved in politics," said
Thanh, whose parents left Saigon as boat people when he was a
baby.


Asked about the candidates, many of the participants said they
were backing the right-winger Sarkozy.


"Let's not beat around the bush. The great majority of us vote on
the right. We came here to escape Communism," said Mai Linh, a
refugee from Vietnam who lives in the Paris region.


"I voted with my feet in 1975, when the Communists came to power
(in Vietnam), so I'm hardly going to give my vote to the left,"
said Vongsavanh, originally from Laos.


Thanh said he was "for the right, but the soft right. 'Sarko'
scares me, so for me it will be Bayrou."


But among the younger generation of Asian immigrants, voices were
also raised for the left-winger Royal.


"Just because our parents didn't like the left, it doesn't mean
we have to vote like them," said one participant.


According to the CIFOA, there are around 1,253,000 Asians living
in France, around half of whom have French nationality.

