

Irish rocker and Live Aid founder Bob Geldof is to team up with
the British Broadcasting Corporation on a project to digitally
catalogue all known human existence, they said Tuesday.


The London-based public service broadcaster, its commercial arm
BBC Worldwide and Geldof's Ten Alps media group are to
collaborate on the "Dictionary of Man".


In a statement, the BBC said the scale and ambition of the
anthropological project, which will have an accompanying
television series "The Human Planet", was "unprecedented".


It would use every available medium to create the "largest ever
living record" of films, photographs, anthropological histories,
philosophies, theologies, economies, language, art as well as
people's personal stories.


"This will be an A to Z of mankind which will catalogue the world
we live in now, the people who share this planet, the way we live
and the way we adapt to face common and different challenges,"
producer-director John Maguire said.


The BBC said the multimedia project would ultimately allow people
from across the globe to track their tribes, clan and families on
the other side of the world.


Camera crews will capture all 900 of the separate groups of
people anthropologists believe exist in the world, it added.


Geldof, the former frontman for rock group the Boomtown Rats,
said he was first inspired to act after hearing about
disappearing languages in Africa 20 years ago.


"Ultimately, I suppose in some ways we're also building the
world's family photo album," he said.


The debt relief campaigner's Ten Alps media group will provide
administrative and infrastructure back-up on the project, which
is projected to be sold worldwide.

