

The United States could take in up to 25,000 Iraqis under a
global refugee resettlement programme this year, a high ranking
US official said Tuesday on the sidelines of a UN conference
here.


"I think it's fair to say that, if we get the referrals, we could
resettle up to 25,000 Iraqi refugees within the president's
determination this year,"   Ellen Sauerbrey, assistant secretary
of state for population, refugees and migration, told
journalists.


Sauerbey said the 25,000 would be part of a contingent of 70,000
refugees worldwide that the State Department can traditionally
offer to resettle in the United States, subjec to Congressional
approval.


But the system depends on a system of referrals, or requests, for
the most vulnerable refugees by the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees.


To date, the UNHCR has only identified 7,000 possible Iraqi
referrals to the United States, Sauerbrey said.


Washington announced last month that it would accept those
referrals. Before that decision, the United States had faced
criticism for having accepted only 466 refugees since the 2003
invasion of Iraq.


The United States told the conference on Iraq's displacement
crisis that it was ready to provide more funding and assistance
when the UNHCR needed it.


Aid agencies at the two-day meeting in Geneva are pressing the
international community to bolster assistance for some four
million Iraqis either forced internally displaced or forced
abroad.


They include some 800,000 who have fled their homes under the
onslaught of sectarian violence since February 2006.


Their appeals include resettlement of Iraqi refugees to help ease
the burden on neighbouring countries, provided it is voluntary.


Sauerbrey met officials in the main host countries in the Middle
East -- Egypt, Jordan and Syria -- earlier this year.

