

Bell Canada Enterprises announced Tuesday it is negotiating with
a group of Canadian equity funds interested in a buyout of the
country's largest telecom firm.


In a statement, BCE said it had "entered into discussions with a
group of leading Canadian pension funds to explore the
possibility of taking the publicly traded company private."


The group is led by the Canada Pension Plan Investment Board,
Quebec's Caisse de Depot and Canada's Public Sector Pension
Investment Board.


Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co., a leading US private equity
firm, also would join the Canadian-led consortium as a minority
partner, BCE said.


The aim of any possible transaction is to "deliver further value
to shareholders," the company said.


Last week, several newspapers citing unnamed sources said the
Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan, BCE's largest single shareholder,
was "frustrated" by the company's stagnant stock value and
planned a hostile bid for Canada's largest telecom.


BCE shares listed on the New York Stock Exchange hit a 52-week
high of 30.57 dollars that afternoon, after trading between 22.23
and 30.02 in 2006.


The shares closed April 9 at 28.23 dollars and opened April 10 at
30.31 on the news.


The teachers group could not be reached for comment, but said in
US securities filings Monday it "is closely monitoring
developments and is exploring its options."


The fund, which manages 106 billion Canadian dollars (92.5
billion US) in assets, owns almost 42.8 million BCE shares, or
5.3 percent of outstanding shares.


Bell Canada is the dominant carrier in eastern Canada, and is one
of the country's largest corporations and employers.


In addition to its vast telecommunications holdings, BCE owns a
stake in the Globe and Mail newspaper, Canadian broadcaster CTV
and several specialty Canadian cable channels, as well as the
Toronto Maple Leafs hockey club and the NBA's Toronto Raptors.

