

Thousands of Palestinians marking their annual Prisoners' Day on
Tuesday called for the release of more than 11,000 Palestinians
currently held by Israel, either in prison or by the military.


Their number includes 386 minors, 83 women and 801 people being
held without charge. Just over half of Palestinian prisoners have
been convicted of an offence.


Herewith a breakdown on the detainees, according to figures
provided on Tuesday by the army and the Israeli Prisons Authority
(IPA):


There are currently 11,050 Palestinian Arabs being held by
Israel, the vast majority of them -- 9,702 -- facing or having
been convicted on charges of endangering state security.


-- 801 of them, including 15 minors, are held in so-called
administrative detention by the military, meaning no charges have
been brought against them.


-- 386 of them are minors under the age of 18 (this includes 15
minors in administrative detention)


-- 83 of them are women


-- 385 of those facing state security charges have either Israeli
nationality or Israeli ID cards


-- 5,904 of the detainees have been convicted of an offence


-- 1,348 are facing charges other than state security


-- 9,221 are in custody of the IPA


-- 1,829 are in military custody


-- 32 of those detained were arrested after they were elected to
the Palestinian parliament in January 2006, during a crackdown on
the Islamist Hamas movement. They include then parliament speaker
Aziz Dweik.


Within the IPA, 25 of the prisoners are under the age of 16. Five
are over the age of 65, including two who are over 70.


The vast majority of the prisoners within the IPA -- 6,190 -- are
first-time offenders; with 2,228 serving time for second
offences; 531 for third; 176 for fourth; 64 for fifth and 32 for
their sixth or higher offence.


Out of those who have been convicted, 636 are serving life
sentences; 472 are serving sentences of more than 20 years; 1,024
are serving sentences of 10-20 years; 2,938 are serving sentences
of two to 10 years; with the rest serving various sentences of
less than two years.

