

The US government sought to reassure foreigners Tuesday that the
United States remains a prime destination for their studies
despite this week's mass murder at a Virginia university.


"The United States is a popular destination, for good reason, for
foreign students," said State Department spokesman Sean
McCormack, noting that the government issues more than 200,000
student visas each year.


"It is a good environment for students to explore the boundaries
of knowledge, contribute to the body of knowledge in their given
field of study," he said.


While calling Monday's shooting deaths of 32 students and
teachers at Virginia Tech a "terrible tragedy," McCormack said,
"Be assured that local officials, state officials, federal
officials as well as university officials do everything that they
believe is prudent, everything that they can, to ensure that the
students are able to study and thrive in a safe environment."


"On the whole, this is a place where I expect foreign students
will want to continue to come to study," he said.


About 2,000 foreigners are enrolled at Virginia Tech, where at
least 30 students and staff were shot dead Monday by a 23-year-
old South Korean national, Cho Seung-Hui, who then killed
himself. Cho is suspected of having killed two other people at
another campus building moments earlier.


It was the deadliest campus shooting rampage in US history.


A number of foreigners were believed to be among the victims of
the shootings, though the State Department declined to comment
pending official notification of the victims' identities by
Virginia authorities.

