

The United States wants the international community to act
quickly to help the breakaway Serbian province of Kosovo achieve
independence, a senior US official said Tuesday.


"We must now act quickly in the next weeks and months to finish
the job by helping to lead Kosovo to independence," Nicholas
Burns, the number three official at the US State Department, told
a US Congress panel.


The UN Security Council is to debate in the coming weeks an
independence proposal unveiled by UN chief mediator Martti
Ahtisaari late last month.


The United States "fully supports" Ahtisaari's plan, Burns told
the House Foreign Affairs Committee.


"In particular, we believe that supervised independence for
Kosovo is now the only way forward," said Burns, the under
secretary for political affairs.


The Security Council agreed last week to send a fact-finding
mission to Kosovo and Belgrade ahead of the debate on Ahtisaari's
plan.


Russia, one of the council's five veto-wielding members and an
ally of Serbia, has objected to Ahtisaari's independence
proposal.


Serbia is adamantly opposed to independence for a province it
regards as the cradle of its civilization.


The Ahtisaari plan, which has been endorsed by Kosovo Albanians,
the European Union and the United States, is to be debated in the
coming weeks, probably next month, by the Security Council, which
must decide Kosovo's future status.


Kosovo has been administered by a UN mission since mid-1999,
after a NATO bombing campaign ended the brutal crackdown by
Serbian forces against the province's ethnic-Albanian majority.


Some 10,000 ethnic Albanians died and hundreds of thousands fled
Kosovo during the 1998-1999 conflict.

