

Sterling climbed above the 2.0-dollar level for the first time in
14 years on Tuesday and the euro reached its highest level
against the US currency since December 2004.


Sterling benefited from higher-than-expected British inflation
data which raised expectations of an interest rate rise, while
the euro was propelled by a buoyant reading of German investor
confidence.


The dollar was undermined by weaker-than-expected inflation data
for March which prompted renewed speculation that the Federal
Reserve will cut interest rates later this year.


In late European trading, the euro was trading at 1.3567 euros
from 1.3535 dollars late on Monday after earlier reaching a high
of 1.3595, its highest level since December 2005.


The dollar fell to 118.92 yen, while sterling rose to 2.0061
dollars after earlier reaching a high of 2.0074 dollars, last
seen in December 2004.


Global Insight analyst Howard Archer commented: "We believe that
sterling could well remain above 2.00 dollars for an extended
period.


"In the near term, the pound is likely to be supported by
expectations that UK interest rates will not only rise from 5.25
percent to 5.50 percent in May, but could also rise further
thereafter."


An increase in interest rates tends to attract foreign short-term
deposits, thereby increasing demand for the domestic currency and
increasing its value on the foreign exchange market.


In the United States, the key rate is 5.25 percent and expected
to fall, while in the eurozone it is 3.75 percent and expected to
rise. In Japan, it is 0.5 percent.


Sterling's all-time high against the dollar was 2.4546 dollars in
1980.


The euro was strong against the dollar after data showed that
investor confidence in Germany rose to the highest level for 10
months in April as growth of the eurozone's biggest economy
continued to gather momentum.


The ZEW economic research institute's economic expectations
index, based on a poll of 320 analysts and institutional
investors, rose by 10.7 points to plus 16.5 points in April, its
highest level since June 2006, ZEW said in a statement.


The increase also beat expectations: analysts had been pencilling
in a more modest rise to plus 10.0 points this month.


Data in the United States from the Labor Department showed that
US consumer prices rose 0.6 percent in March as energy costs shot
higher.


The Labor Department's consumer price index (CPI) was below
market expectations for a 0.7 percent increase.


"It doesn't mean the Fed can begin cutting interest rates
straight away but it is good news from that point of view," said
Gavin Friend, forex strategist at Commerzbank.


"The Fed has been faced with a shrinking economy and rising
inflation so this goes some way to squaring the circle," he
added.


The euro was changing hands at 1.3567 dollars, against 1.3535
dollars late on Monday, 161.32 yen (162.05), 0.6764 pounds
(0.6801) and 1.6402 Swiss francs (1.6432).


The dollar stood at 118.92 yen (119.72) and 1.2089 francs
(1.2141).


The pound was being traded at 2.0061 dollars (1.9900).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold advanced to 688
dollars per ounce, from 686.50 dollars late on Monday.

