

A Syrian man in jail in Spain for leading an Al-Qaeda cell said
Tuesday that he was not surprised by the March 2004 Madrid train
bombings because of anger over the Iraq war.


Imad Eddin Barakat Yarkas, alias Abu Dahdah, was testifying at a
trial of 29 mostly Moroccan suspects charged with involvement in
the attack on packed commuter trains on March 11, 2004 which
killed 191 people and injured hundreds.


"Things like the war in Iraq, in many places generate hate," he
said.


"What happened on March 11 is inadmissible although I would not
be surprised that this happened because of the Iraq war," he
added.


A Spanish court in September 2005 sentenced Yarkas to 27 years in
prison for conspiring with Al-Qaeda and the hijackers who carried
out the September 11, 2001 attacks in the US.


Spain's Supreme Court reduced the jail term to 12 years in June
2006 after acquitting him of the charge of conspiring with the
hijackers.


Yarkas told the Madrid bombing trial that he knew two of the 29
accused but was not close to either of them.


He said he knew Jamal Zougam, who is accused of placing at least
one of the backpack bombs aboard a train, because he bought
vegetables at the Madrid shop where the Moroccan worked.


He said he knew Mouhannad Almallah Dabas, an alleged member of
the Madrid cell that is believed to have carried out the attacks,
because the Syrian fixed his washing machine.


But Yarkas denied knowing Tunisian Serhan Ben Abdelmajid Fakhet,
the alleged ringleader of the Madrid cell who blew himself up
along with other suspects as police moved to arrest them in a
Madrid suburb three weeks after the attacks.


The trial began in mid-February. The verdicts are due in October.

