

German auto giant Volkswagen said Tuesday that it sold a total
1.47 million cars worldwide in the first three months of the
current year, 7.9 percent more than in the same period a year
earlier.


A dent in sales in the car maker's home German market, related to
the steep increase in value-added or sales tax (VAT) from January
1, was offset by a sharp rise in unit sales in other markets, VW
explained in a statement.


"We were more than able to compensate for the expected drop in
sales in Germany as a result of increased VAT by rises, some of
them quite considerable, in other key world markets. An important
success factor is the very pleasing growth on the Chinese
market," said chief executive Martin Winterkorn.


"All brands contributed to these excellent results," he said. "We
will meet our sales targets for this year in spite of difficult
market conditions."


The three percentage-point rise in VAT sent German sales down by
4.9 percent to 235,000 vehicles in the period from January to
March.


The strongest increase was seen in central and eastern Europe,
where sales rose by 25.9 percent to 109,000 units.


The most important growth market was China, where unit sales were
up 23 percent at 203,000 vehicles.


"Developments in the South America/South Africa region were
equally positive," with unit sales up 21.5 percent at 188,000
vehicles.


In the US, VW sold 73,000 units, representing slight growth of
0.7 percent compared with the previous year.


Sales of the VW brand alone rose by 6.8 percent to 850,000 units
in the three- month period.

