

Poland's conservative Prime Minister Jaroslaw Kaczynski is hoping
to silence critics who claim he is a eurosceptic during a visit
to Brussels this week, an aide said Tuesday.


"The prime minister wants to set out his pro-European views. We
are open to the European Union, despite stupid articles which say
we are anti-European," Krzysztof Miszczak, head of Kaczynski's
foreign policy team, told reporters.


"All we want is to protect the bottom-line interests of nation-
states within the EU," Miszczak said.


Kaczynski is scheduled to visit Brussels on Wednesday to attend a
plenary session of the European Commission, the executive arm of
the 27-nation EU.


During meetings with officials including commission chief Jose
Manuel Barroso, Kaczynski is set to discuss efforts to revive the
EU's stalled constitution.


The Polish premier has said that expecting the adoption of a new
EU treaty by 2009 -- the target set at an EU gathering last month
-- is wishful thinking.


Kaczynski is also planning to raise the issue of Poland's bitter
row with Russia over Moscow's embargo on Polish farm products.


Russia banned imports of Polish meat and other foodstuffs in
November 2005, accusing Polish authorities of fraudulent food
safety standards.


But Poland argues that Moscow is playing politics because of
differences with the conservative government in Warsaw.


Because of the ban, Poland has vetoed the opening of talks
between the EU and Russia on a new partnership agreement.


Warsaw, which has the backing of the commission, recently said it
may be prepared to lift its veto as long as Russia indicated it
would lift the ban.


However, there have been no signs of progress, according to
Miszczak.


"We have no indication that Russia is planning to lift the
embargo," he said.


Kaczynski also wants to address battles with Brussels over a road
construction project in an environmentally sensitive area of
northeastern Poland, and state aid to the country's struggling
shipyards.

