

Two Swedish nationals arrived home Tuesday, a day after Iran
unexpectedly released them after jailing them last year for
espionage.


"We were well-treated during the entire length of our detention,"
Stefan Johansson told reporters at Stockholm airport at a news
conference with his co- detainee Jari Hjortmar.


Johansson said he was "very happy to be finally free and to
return home after such a long time."


The two men were arrested in March 2006 for taking pictures of
military installations on Iran's southern island of Qeshm and
sentenced to two years in prison.


They said they had been photographing dolphins.


"To us, the situation seemd absurd. We had taken tourist photos
and we were being accused of being spies," said Johansson. "To
us, it seemed unreal."


Urban Ahlin, of the Swedish parliament's foreign affairs
committee and helped negotiate their release, said at the same
press conference: "From the beginning, we were convinced of the
innocence of these two men."


Their release comes less than two weeks after 15 British naval
personnel held by Iran on accusations of illegally entering
Iranian waters were suddenly pardoned and released.


Two other Europeans, German tourist Donald Klein and French boat
skipper Stephane Lherbier, were also both freed earlier this year
before completing 18-month sentences for violating Iran's
territorial waters.


And French academic returned home last week after the Iranian
authorities returned his passport, which has been seized on
January 30 during a trip to the volatile province of Sistan-
Baluchestan.

