

Intel Corp. said Tuesday its first-quarter profit rose 18.6
percent from a year ago to 1.61 billion dollars as the chip giant
avoided some of the price cuts that hurt earnings in the past.


The earnings excluding a one-time tax benefit amounted to 22
cents per share, in line with Wall Street estimates.


Revenues meanwhile fell one percent compared with the same
quarter in 2006 to to 8.9 billion dollars.


"The strong momentum of our industry-leading Intel Core
microarchitecture product family, combined with ongoing
structural cost improvements, delivered solid financial results
in the first quarter," said Intel president and chief executive
Paul Otellini.


"Our product strength is reflected in the fact that average
selling prices for the quarter held up well in a very competitive
environment."


The world's biggest computer chipmaker has been in a fierce price
war with rival Advanced Micro Devices that has forced Intel to
slash its workforce and take other belt-tightening steps.


The company said it reached its goal of reducing the workforce to
about 92,000, meeting the target one quarter ahead of schedule.
That involved the cutting of some 10,000 positions. Intel also
recently announced plans for a big facility in China.


The latest results included the effect of a 300-million-dollar
reversal of previously accrued taxes that increased earnings per
share by five cents.


Intel said its gross profit margin was 50.1 percent, higher than
49.6 percent in the previous quarter as lower costs and the sale
of inventory offset the effects of start-up costs on new plants
and lower revenue.


For the second quarter, Intel said it expected revenues in a
range of 8.2 billion and 8.8 billion dollars and gross margins of
48 percent "plus or minus a couple of points."

