

National Basketball Association legend Jerry West, whose playing
silhouette is used in the league's logo, is leaving as director
of basketball operations for the woeful Memphis Grizzlies.


West, 68, is in the final year of his five-year contract and told
reporters here Tuesday he will not return to try and rebuild the
Grizzlies, who have a league- worst 21-60 record with one game
remaining in the current season.


Star center Pau Gasol broke his left foot while leading Spain to
the title in last year's World Basketball Championships and
missed the first 22 NBA games of the season for Memphis, which
began 5-17 without him.


After losing six of their first seven games following Gasol's
return, West fired coach Mike Fratello and replaced him with
interim coach Tony Barone. But the Grizzlies have been unable to
find their way.


West, whose reignation takes effect July 1, adds to the headaches
for a club that is up for sale but cannot find a buyer. The
Grizzlies have reportedly lost more than 40 million dollars
despite playoff appearances the past three years.


Chicago billionaire Michael Heisley bought the team for 160
million dollars in 2000 and moved it from Vancouver a year later.
He hired West in 2002 and built a playoff team but the Grizzlies
never won even a single playoff game.


Attempts to sell the Grizzlies to a group led by former NBA
player Brian Davis and his college teammate and NBA All-Star
Christian Laettner, fell apart when they failed to provide the
league with vital financial information.


West won eight titles as either a player, executive or consultant
with the Los Angeles Lakers, who won four of their eight tripes
to the NBA Finals during West's 19 years as general manager or
top executive.


West brought Shaquille O'Neal and Kobe Bryant to the Lakers but
after retiring he surprised many by returning in hopes of helping
turn around the Grizzlies. He was named the NBA's top executive
in 2004 when the club made its first playoff appearance.

