

Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas said Tuesday he hoped to
convince the European Union to lift a year-long suspension of aid
to the Hamas-led government, saying it was causing an upsurge in
extremism.


"We have discussed what has been worrying us the most ... the
financial and economic blockade which has to be lifted," he told
reporters after meeting with French President Jacques Chirac in
Paris on the first stop of a European tour.


He said the freeze "had extremely serious and negative
repercussions for the Palestinian people. We are worried about
the upsurge in extremism and our inability to control it."


The EU was the biggest aid donor to the Palestinian government
until the Hamas militants came to power in March 2006.


The Quartet of Middle East mediators -- the European Union, the
United States, the United Nations and Russia -- then suspended
direct aid to the Palestinian Authority.


Since then, the 27-nation EU has redirected its aid, worth 700
million euros (943 million dollars) in 2006, through a special
mechanism to help the neediest people while bypassing the
government to avoid contact with Hamas.


Chirac meanwhile hailed the formation of a government of national
unity as a "positive development" and appealed for the resumption
of EU aid at a meeting of European foreign ministers on April 23,
Elysee spokesman Jerome Bonnafont said.


Abbas thanked Chirac for his "understanding" and said the
outgoing leader had assured him that France's position on the
Israeli-Palestinian issue would remain unchanged no matter who
won the imminent presidential elections.

