

French and Spanish shareholders in French construction group
Eiffage were to square up at the company's general assembly on
Wednesday, with the issue of management control and a possible
takeover set for debate.


Spanish construction group Sacyr Vallehermoso has bought a
33.2-percent stake in Eiffage and is demanding five seats on the
management board, sparking fears in France about a foreign
takeover of one of the country's biggest construction groups.


Sacyr's bid for board representation is likely to be supported by
fellow Spanish shareholders, who hold more than 7.0-percent of
the group, but is opposed by employees and French public
investment group Caisse des Depots et Consignations.


Sacyr took out a page in French business newspaper La Tribune on
Tuesday to appeal to Caisses des Depots et Consignations and
Eiffage shareholders, managers and employees to support its
request for five board seats.


In a full page advert, Sacyr said: "We consider that all
shareholders should be entitled to representation on Eiffage's
board of directors."


It added that the two companies could "work together to further
Eiffage's development."


Last week, French and European employee unions expressed concerns
over Sacyr's intentions and declared themselves staunchly opposed
to any takeover moves that do not include firm and explicit
commitments regarding the future of the group.


Sacyr reiterated statements made last week that it "wants Eiffage
to be a French group, run by a French management team" and that
it had no intention of dismantling the group.


"We are not asking for any of Eiffage's assets or businesses to
be sold. On the contrary, Sacyr Vallehermoso wants to strengthen
the potential of all (Eiffage's) businesses, including the
construction business," the Spanish group said in the
advertisement.

