

Germany could abandon nuclear energy more quickly than planned
and still achieve a 40-percent cut in carbon dioxide emissions,
environmental group Greenpeace said on Thursday.


If all nuclear power stations were closed by 2015, instead of the
planned date of 2020, Germany could still reduce its CO2
emissions by 40 percent, according to a study prepared for
Greenpeace by the EUtech institute, based in the western German
city of Aachen.


Germany has the resources and the technology available to achieve
both goals, the report said.


"There can be no more excuses, a 40-percent cut by 2020 is
achievable," said Greenpeace Germany's energy expert Andree
Boehling.


Shutting down the country's nuclear plants would indirectly have
a positive effect on emissions by encouraging the energy industry
to develop new technology, Boehling said.


Germany, which currently holds the rotating presidency of the
European Union, helped broker an agreement this month under which
the 27 member states will reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20
percent from 1990 levels over the next 13 years.


But the Greenpeace-backed report, entitled "Climate protection:
Plan B," says Germany could achieve a greater reduction by using
renewable energy to generate one fifth of its heating needs and
one third of its electricity by 2020, according to the report


"The German government's Plan A has failed," Boehling said,
referring to a slight rise in CO2 emissions in Germany since
2006.


Germany has agreed to phase out nuclear power by around 2020, but
France relies on atomic energy for around 40 percent of its needs
and has pushed for it to be classed as a renewable form of energy
when the EU deal is firmed up.

