

Former West Indies all-rounder Phil Simmons hopes his new
assignment as Ireland coach will ease the pain of his bruising
experience at the helm of Zimbabwe.


Simmons will take charge of the World Cup's most surprising team
once the Caribbean adventure ends. That's when current coach
Adrian Birrell heads back to South Africa.


"My role was to come and be part of the team and to get to know
the people. It's been easy because Adrian is happy with it.
Basically, I'm an assistant. It's not been hard at all. It's been
very easy."


The 43-year-old Simmons was officially put in charge of Ireland
on March 1, but it was agreed that Birrell would remain at the
helm until the end of the World Cup.


That agreement will last a little longer now that Ireland have
pipped former champions Pakistan to the second qualifying place
from Group D of the competition along with the West Indies.


Despite his happiness at being involved with the Irish team,
Simmons is taking his new challenge in his stride after his
controversial stay in Zimbabwe.


"Off the field, it has taught me - don't trust many people,"
Simmons told the Trinidad Express.


"It's a sad thing to say, but that's the thing it's taught me
through and through. There's not many trustworthy people in the
world anymore."


His contract with the Zimbabwe Cricket Union was terminated in
August last year and he suddenly found himself having to fight a
battle over deportation and compensation.


"I can't get scarred," said Simmons who watched his new team
fight out a last'ball tie with Zimbabwe here last week.


"I am too blessed to get scarred. It (Zimbabwe job) taught me
different things. It taught me a lesson about life in Zimbabwe
which is totally different to life anywhere else I've been."

