

Wall Street stocks drifted lower Thursday as the market digested
a powerful rally a day earlier fueled by what some analysts said
was a Federal Reserve hint of an easier money policy soon.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 29.48 points (0.24 percent)
to 12,418.04 at 1510 GMT after a big 1.3 percent gain on
Wednesday.


The Nasdaq composite dropped 11.24 points (0.46 percent) to
2,444.68 while the broad-market Standard & Poor's 500
retreated 4.25 points (0.30 percent) to 1,430.79.


The market was consolidating a day after shooting higher in the
wake of the Fed decision to hold rates steady. The central bank
eliminated a reference to "firming" or hiking rates in its latest
policy statement.


"The market was pleased to see (the Fed) hold off on any rate
increases in response" to inflation, said Fred Dickson at DA
Davidson.


But Dickson said the market may be due for a consolidation after
several positive sessions.


"Having seen a strong run over the first three days of the week,
we would not be surprised to see the market take a breather going
into the weekend," he said.


Dick Green at Briefing.com said Wednesday's sharp rally appears
to have been an overreaction to the Fed, and pondered whether the
market may be too eagerly anticipating a rate cut.


"The (Fed) statement did remove the bias towards tightening, but
there was no hint of any rate cut soon. It was modestly positive
news at best," he said.


Green said sentiment swings have been extreme in the past few
weeks, and now investors may be too optimistic.


"The overly pessimistic view based on the Shanghai market plunge
(in late February) and the rising (US) delinquency rates on
subprime mortgages quickly vanished amidst unfounded confidence
that the Fed will soon cut rates," he said.


"It is easy to get whip-sawed in this type of environment."


Among stocks being watched, Motorola slid 1.04 dollars or 5.5
percent to 17.70 after the mobile phone giant downgraded its
revenue outlook and shook up management in the face of softening
sales.


Procter and Gamble rose 80 cents to 63.76 after the consumer
goods maker got a positive brokerage recommendation.


Alcatel-Lucent fell 44 cents to 11.54 after a negative brokerage
note on the newly merged maker of telecommunications equipment.


KB Home fell 77 cents to 47.02 after the home building group
posted a drop in first-quarter profits, reflecting the sharp
downturn in the US housing market.


Bonds swung lower. The yield on the 10-year US Treasury bond
climbed to 4.559 percent from 4.518 percent Wednesday while that
on the 30-year bond increased to 4.753 percent against 4.696
percent. Bond yields and prices move in opposite directions.

