

Republic of Ireland defender Steve Finnan has backed his team-
mates and manager Steve Staunton following Roy Keane's criticism
of many of the players' recent performances.


Keane hit out at some senior players on Wednesday, some of whom
would have been members of the squad that he so infamously walked
out on at the 2002 World Cup finals over a disagreement with then
coach Mick McCarthy.


"Once you keep playing them on the reputation they've built up
through the media or because they do lots of interviews, then
it's wrong," said Keane, who staged a brief and contrite return
to the international squad in what turned out to be a fruitless
bid to qualify for the 2006 World Cup finals.


"There's a fine line between loyalty and stupidity."


However Liverpool defender Finnan responded to Keane's comments
on Thursday, saying: "He (Keane) is entitled to his opinion. To
be honest, I don't think there were too many celebrations over in
San Marino (2-1 victory on February 7).


"It obviously wasn't a good result, not the one we were looking
for. We just got the job done. But we didn't celebrate as if we
had qualified or anything like that. We were just grateful to win
the game.


"Some of the criticism that followed was rightly justified. The
manager taking more stick than most. For not playing as well as
we can, we had to expect some. But he has brought in a lot of
young players. It's a transitional period.


"After failing to qualify for the last two tournaments, he has
come in at a fairly difficult time. He has had to change things,
and because of that he should be given time."

