

The UN Security Council on Thursday expressed "serious concern"
about fighting between government troops and guards loyal to
defeated Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) presidential
candidate Jean-Pierre Bemba.


Shots were fired near Bemba's home and tension has been high for
several days since the announcement that his military protection
was to be scaled down.


In a statement, the 15-member Security Council voiced concern
about the clashes and urged both sides to "immediately cease the
exchange of fire, act responsibly and resolve outstanding issues
by peaceful means."


Council members specifically expressed concern about the effect
of the violence on the civilian population, including children.


They backed efforts by the UN peacekeeping force in the country,
known as MONUC, to help defuse the situation and encouraged it to
help tackle this security challenge.


Earlier MONUC, the biggest UN peacekeeping mission in the world,
began evacuating its personnel and any civilians in the area, and
in a statement appealed for an immediate end to the fighting.


The council also called for both the government and Bemba, who
was elected a senator in January, to find a peaceful solution to
the crisis, adding that MONUC chief William Lacy Swing was in
contact with both sides.


Dozens of soldiers and UN armoured vehicles have been stationed
outside Bemba's residence in the northern Gombe district since
Tuesday amid fears of clashes with his security guards.


Bemba Thursday called for a ceasefire following the armed
clashes.


Bemba, whose rebel movement battled government troops until 2003,
was vice- president during a post-war transition to democratic
rule overseen by the United Nations.


The transition process ended last year with the first democratic
elections in more than four decades. Joseph Kabila was
inaugurated as president in December.

