

US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice was to discuss with her
Indonesian counterpart proposed new UN sanctions on Iran over its
nuclear program, the State Department said Thursday.


State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said Rice would discuss
with Indonesia's Foreign Minister Hassan Wirajuda the UN Security
Council's sanctions draft which has been endorsed by the
council's five permanent members and is now being studied by the
10 non-permanent members.


It would be the third time since Monday the United States has
discussed the issue with Indonesia, following a telephone call
from President George W. Bush to Indonesian President Susilo
Bambang Yudhoyono and another call between Rice and Wirajuda.


Indonesia, Qatar and South Africa have proposed amendments to the
sanctions, which would ban Tehran from exporting arms, call for
voluntary trade sanctions and expand a list of officials and
companies targeted for financial and travel restrictions.


"The discussion won't be limited to talking about the Security
Council resolution, but I expect it will come up," McCormack said
ahead of the meeting.


Indonesia and Qatar have both proposed amending the existing text
with a paragraph recalling the goal of a "Middle East free from
weapons of mass destruction and all missiles for their delivery"
under the Non-Proliferation Treaty.


While permanent members of the Security Council have suggested
such an amendment is possible, they rejected South Africa's
proposal for a 90-day suspension of UN sanctions to allow
political negotiations with Tehran.


The Security Council has demanded that Tehran halt its uranium
enrichment program, which Western powers view as part of a push
to develop nuclear weapons.


Iran maintains its nuclear program is aimed at peaceful uses.

