

US professor and researcher Perry McCarty on Thursday won the
2007 Stockholm Water Prize honouring achievements in water-
related activities, the Stockholm International Water Institute
said.


McCarty, 76, from Stanford University, was awarded the prize for
"pioneering work in developing the scientific approach for the
design and operation of water and wastewater systems," the
institute said in a statement.


"Professor McCarty's work has led to more efficient biological
treatment processes, in particular anaerobic (oxygen-less)
treatment systems for municipal and industrial wastewaters,
biological nutrient removal, and the development and use of
biofilm reactors," it added.


McCarty will receive the prize sum of 150,000 dollars and a glass
sculpture from the hands of Swedish King Carl XVI Gustaf at a
ceremony in Stockholm on August 16.


He has written hundreds of articles published in scientific
journals, as well as two textbooks on the chemistry, biology and
design of treatment systems for municipal and industrial
wastewater that are used by engineers around the world.


Last year, the prize went to Indian-born Canadian professor Asit
Biswas, who heads the Mexico City-based Third World Centre for
Water Management.


The scope of the prize covers education, awareness-raising, human
and international relations, research, water management and
water-related aid.


The prize was founded in 1990 by multinational corporations
including US-based chemical giant DuPont and the France-based
aerospace group Snecma.

