

The United States on Thursday warned Italy not to trade detained
militants for foreign hostages in Afghanistan, saying the
practice raised the risk for countries with personnel there.


US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice delivered the message
during a telephone call with her Italian counterpart Massimo
d'Alema following US criticism of Rome's handling of the hostage
crisis in Afghanistan.


"Given the increased threat created for all of us who have people
on the ground in places like Afghanistan, we expect that
concessions will not be made in the future," State Department
spokesman Sean McCormack said in a statement.


The United States, Britain and The Netherlands have said the swap
of kidnapped Italian journalist Daniele Mastrogiacomo for the
release of five Taliban militants could invite similar
kidnappings of NATO and Afghan troops battling the Taliban.


The United States "does not support hostage exchanges or other
concessions to terrorists," McCormack's statement said.


This "was not a new position" but a "well-known and long-standing
policy that the United States government stressed to the
government of Italy during this crisis as it has in previous
kidnapping crises."


Rice's conversation with the Italian foreign minister as "in-
depth and cordial," the statement added.


Earlier, an Italian foreign ministry official told AFP that
D'Alema planned to seek "clarification after the criticism from
an anonymous source" at the US State Department.


Rome was "surprised" by the US criticism, the foreign ministry
official said, recalling a "very positive climate" during a
dinner meeting between D'Alema and Rice in Washington on Monday.

