

An Italian cardinal has complained to the president of the
European Parliament about alleged "pressure" exerted by the body
on EU member states on societal issues such as the family and
bioethics, press reports said Thursday.


"It's not appropriate for the current European Parliament to make
pronouncements on issues such as marriage, family and life,
exerting de facto pressure on the countries of the Union,"
Cardinal Angelo Scola was quoted as saying.


Scola, the patriarch of Venice, made the remark while celebrating
mass Wednesday at the Abbey of Monte Cassino, south of Rome, on
the Feast Day of Saint Benedict, the patron saint of Europe.


European Parliament president Hans-Gert Poettering, in Italy for
celebrations of the 50th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome that
established the European Economic Community, the precursor to the
European Union, was present at the mass.


Scola said that "on such delicate matters" as the family or
bioethics, the European Union is meant to honour the "principle
of subsidiarity," which he said "implies that one respects the
traditions of each people and avoids forcing the hand of very
diverse civil societies."


The Venice patriarchy posted the text of the homily on its
website.


The Italian Catholic Church is staunchly opposed to gay marriage,
euthanasia and genetic engineering, which are all legal to one
degree or another in various EU countries.


It has spoken out repeatedly against a draft bill in Italy to
grant legal status to unmarried couples including gays.


On January 18 the European Parliament passed a resolution
opposing discrimination against homosexuals, stating that "in
some member countries same- sex partners do not enjoy all the
rights and protections accorded to married partners of the
opposite sex."

