

The Danish newspaper that first printed cartoons of the Prophet
Mohammed on Thursday hailed a Paris court's acquittal of a
satirical French weekly that also published cartoons of the
prophet.


In a statement posted on Jyllands-Posten's website after the
French verdict, editor-in-chief Carsten Juste wrote: "Anything
other than a total acquittal would have been a catastrophe for
free debate and the entire foundation of our democratic society."


The court ruled that three cartoons that appeared in the weekly
Charlie Hebdo in February 2006, including two which were
originally published in Jyllands-Posten, were not insulting to
Muslims.


The editors of Jyllands-Posten had been acquitted in October of
any wrongdoing in a separate case in a Danish court.


Muslims in the Scandinavian country were however disappointed by
the verdict, describing it as "another blow".


"We're disappointed," said Kasem Ahmad, spokesman for the Danish
Islamic Society, after he was informed of the French acquittal.


He said the ruling cemented stereotypical attitudes that depicted
Muslims as terrorists.


One of the cartoons reprinted from Jyllands-Posten showed
Mohammed wearing a turban shaped as a bomb, while a second showed
the prophet standing on a cloud, turning away suicide bombers
from paradise with the caption "Stop, stop, we ran out of
virgins."


"As faithful followers of Mohammed, that equates us with being
terrorists," Ahmad said.


"This isn't a matter of freedom of speech. People don't
understand that there is a limit to what you can say about other
people," he added.


Although two Danes were called to testify in the French case --
Flemming Rose, the Jyllands-Posten culture section editor who
made the decision to run the cartoons, and member of Parliament
Naser Khader -- the Charlie Hebdo case has drawn little media
attention in Denmark.

