

Middlesbrough defender Jonathan Woodgate has been ruled out of
England's Euro 2008 qualifier in Israel on Saturday because of a
knee injury.


He will not travel to Tel Aviv but will continue his treatment in
England and could be available for the next Group E match against
Andorra on Wednesday.


Woodgate made his long-awaited return to the international stage
in the friendly defeat against Spain at Old Trafford last month.


England manager Steve McClaren said: "Jonathan's fitness comes
first and we won't take risks with any player. We will keep in
close contact with Middlesbrough over the next few days to
determine his availability for the Andorra match."


Middlesbrough manager Gareth Southgate revealed on Wednesday that
the 27-year- old, who joined up with the England party after
Boro's FA Cup quarter-final replay defeat at Manchester United on
Monday, has been carrying a slight knee problem "for a little
while."


First-choice England right-back Gary Neville was ruled out at the
weekend with ankle ligament damage and it seems inevitable his
deputy Micah Richards will miss out as well after failing to play
any part in training at the new Wembley Stadium on Wednesday.


McClaren has already taken the precaution of drafting Charlton's
Luke Young into the travelling party but must now decide whether
to amend his original idea of fielding Jamie Carragher at left-
back and switching the in-form Liverpool defender to the other
flank.


That move would open up a starting spot for Gareth Barry or Phil
Neville, who may profit by playing on the right if Carragher
remains on the left.

