

Nigerian authorities on Thursday softened on their threat to
demolish a court handling Vice President Atiku Abubakar's legal
challenge against his exclusion from next month's election.


Federal Capital Development Authority (FCDA) officials on Tuesday
served a demolition notice on the Abuja Federal High Court
hearing Abubakar's suit.


Abubakar's candidacy for the April 21 election was thrown out on
March 15 by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC),
provoking protests the following day by hundreds of his
supporters.


The commission ruled that Abubakar was barred by law because he
had been indicted on corruption charges in September last year.


Abubakar's supporters say his exclusion is politically motivated.
Neither President Olusegun Obasanjo nor Nasir El-Rufai, the
minister in charge of Abuja, is on good terms with Abubakar.


Rufai, who has ordered the demolition of countless buildings that
do not comply with Abuja's draconian urban planning rules, told
reporters Thursday that FCDA officials gave the court a reprieve
to enable it to complete work on its new premises.


He said that residents in the area where the court is currently
situated complained that security measures around the building
were causing them inconvenience.


"We gave them (the court) a quit notice a year ago. They said
they wanted an extension because they have nearly finished their
(new) building. They were given an extension. But up till now,
they have not finished ... So, we gave them another quit notice,"
the minister said.


The court deputy registrar, Emmanuel Ayo, confirmed the reprieve.


"The quit notice has been withdrawn to allow us to stay here
until our new building is completed. Very soon," he told AFP,
without giving details.


The court is expected to reopen debate on Abubakar's suit on
Friday.

