

The head of the FAO said Thursday that two-thirds of the world's
population could be threatened by water shortages by 2025.


Jacques Diouf, director-general of of the UN's Food and
Agricultural Organization, said in a speech here on World Water
Day that 1.2 billion people currently live in areas with
insufficient water.


An additional 500 million could soon face shortages, he said.


"The international community has the means to greatly improve the
management of our water resources and to allow more people access
to water," Diouf said, addressing an FAO conference on the issue.


Climate change and the pollution of a large number of rivers used
for irrigation are making it increasingly difficult for southern
countries to provide themselves with food, he said.


Ugandan Environment Minister Maria Mutagamba said at the
conference that Africa has nine percent of the planet's water
resources, but uses only 3.8 percent.


Water resources on the continent are not well-distributed
geographically, she said.


Mutagamba also noted that the level of Lake Victoria, Africa's
largest freshwater reserve, fell two meters (seven feet) below
normal in 2005.


"Because of common measures taken by countries with water access,
we were able to increase the level by 70 centimetres (28 inches)
in 2006, but we are worried about next season," she said.


The European commissioner for development, Louis Michel, sent a
message to the conference detailing Europe's efforts on water
access.


Since 2002, Europe has committed 400 million euros (535 million
dollars) for short-term water-access projects, as well as 475
million for long-term projects, he said.


Italy's deputy foreign minister, Patrizia Sentinelli, said access
to water should be viewed as a basic and legal human right and
not be subject to private interests seeking to profit from it.

