

The European Union's external border agency, monitoring the west
African coastline, on Thursday intercepted some 200 would-be
illegal Asian immigrants off the coast of Senegal, Spain's Cadena
Ser radio reported.


Senegalese authorities did not immediately confirm the
information but Cadena Ser said the Happy Day vessel, which it
said was South Korean, was intercepted off Senegal and Cap Verde.


The radio, which did not not reveal its source, added that the
Frontex agency had contacted Seoul for permission to board the
boat, which was set to be escorted to dock in Senegal.


Early last month another boat, having set sail from Guinea with
some 300 Asian and sub-Saharan immigrants aboard, was escorted to
the Mauritanian port of Nouadhibou, where some 200 of them are
still awaiting their fate.


Spain, whose Canary Islands were swamped last year by more than
30,000 illegal immigrants, said it would not take them in and
that their countries of origin should make an effort to bring
them home.


After Madrid requested urgent help from its neighbours to stem
the arrivals Frontex began sea and air monitoring in mid-February
using planes and vessels provided by Spain, France, Italy and
Luxembourg.


The Canaries, between 100 and 400 kilometres (60 and 250 miles)
from the African coast, became the preferred route for
clandestine migrants after security was heightened in 2005 in
Spain's enclaves in north Africa, which had previously been a
magnet for thousands of migrants.

