

Israeli deputy prime minister Shimon Peres told the commission
investigating last summer's war in Lebanon that he opposed
starting the conflict, according to witness statements made
public on Thursday.


"If it had been up to me, I would not have gone to war. If it had
been up to me, I would not have made a list of objectives for
this war... We were attacked and we had to defend ourselves.
That's all," Peres told the inquiry.


The extracts from his November 7 testimony were made public by
the commission, which is due to publish its findings in mid-
April.


In addition to Peres, some 70 military commanders and
politicians, among them Prime Minister Ehud Olmert, Defence
Minister Amir Peretz and former chief of staff General Dan
Halutz, appeared before the commission which was set up last
September 17.


It was established under pressure from thousands of military
reservists who demanded a full-scale inquiry into the conflict.


Despite repeated calls for heads to roll, Halutz was the only
senior figure to quit over the conflict that failed to release
two captured soldiers or halt thousands of rocket attacks on the
Jewish state.


Israel launched the war against Shiite militants from Hezbollah
in Lebanon after they seized the two soldiers in a cross-border
raid on July 12. The war ended on August 14 under a UN-brokered
ceasefire.


The Israeli media have long referred to the 2006 conflict as "The
Second Lebanon War." The first was in 1982, when Israel advanced
on the Lebanese capital in an operation codenamed "Peace in
Galilee."

