

US Senators Thursday threw down the gauntlet in a battle with
President George W. Bush over the sackings of eight prosecutors,
approving subpoenas for top White House aides.


In the second such move in two days, the Senate Judiciary Affairs
Committee authorized its chairman, Patrick Leahy, to issue the
subpoenas in its probe into whether the eight attorneys were
dismissed for political reasons.


The move came after a House of Representatives panel on Wednesday
said five senior administration officials including Bush's top
political advisor Karl Rove should be summoning for questioning.


Bush, already under fire in the Democratic-controlled Congress
for the war in Iraq, has vowed to fight any subpoenas, accusing
the Democrats of a "partisan fishing expedition."


He did agree that White House officials could be interviewed
privately by legislators but not under oath, and with no
transcripts to be made available.


But Democratic lawmakers say that is not enough.


"Actually, if you're in public and under oath, you tend to get a
lot more accurate." Leahy said on Wednesday.


The White House however has accused the Democrats of wanting to
turn the investigation into a spectacle for all.


"What he (Leahy) is talking about is a show trial. That's not
designed to get at the truth, it's designed to sort of scold
White House officials," said White House spokesman Tony Snow
early Thursday.


The dispute over the prosecutors began when some of the attorneys
told Congress they were fired because they resisted pressure from
Republican lawmakers over sensitive cases.


While the White House and Justice Department have the right to
appoint and remove all 93 US attorneys -- who investigate and
prosecute court cases for the government -- replacements are
usually only carried out at the beginning of a president's
administration.

