

The European Union will issue a special euro coin this week to
commemorate the 50th anniversary of its founding Treaty of Rome,
EU officials announced Thursday.


Thirteen countries use the common EU currency, but the special
two-euro coin will be the first with a common design on both
sides.


"The European Union has brought us closer together to live in
peace, democracy and to share one of the world's highest living
standards. The euro is a potent symbol of the EU's ever growing
strength and progressive integration," said European Commission
President Jose Manuel Barroso and Economic Affairs Commissioner
Joaquin Almunia in a joint statement.


In total, the 13 euro-area countries will issue close to 90
million coins depicting an open book on the geometrical paving of
the Piazza del Campidoglio in Rome, designed by Michelangelo,
where the Treaty of Rome was signed on 25 March 1957.


EU members Cyprus, Hungary and Romania will also issue a coin, in
their own currencies, to mark the occasion.


Previously commemorative coins have been issued by individual EU
countries, such as the two-euro coin produced by Spain in 2005 to
commemorate the 400-year anniversary of the first edition of Don
Quixote de La Mancha.


Such commemorative coins always have a value of two euros, the
largest value for an EU coin, and are often the subject of keen
interest from coin collectors.


Even the Treaty of Rome commemorative coin will include national
differences, particularly the translation of the words 'Treaty of
Rome: 50 years' at the top.

