

Zimbabwe's government on Thursday rejected reports that the
Angolan government would send 3,000 policemen to bolster its
security forces, saying local police could deal with the
situation in the country.


"These are complete lies," Home Affairs Minister Kembo Mohadi
said on state television.


"The situation here does not warrant us to seek outside help. We
are well- equipped to deal with the situation. The situation in
the country is being exaggerated.


"If things get out of hand we have other sections of the security
forces whom we can always call."


The Times in London reported Thursday that about 2,500 Angolan
paramilitary police were to be deployed in crisis-ridden Zimbabwe
to boost the security forces of President Robert Mugabe.


The Angolan embassy in Harare also denied the reports saying: "It
is not the custom of the Angolan government to interfere with the
internal matters of other governments."


"The purpose of the visit of the Minister of Home Affairs of the
Republic of Angola to the Republic of Zimbabwe was to sign
agreements of interest of both countries such as the sharing of
knowledge and experience and never for the reinforcement of
police power of Zimbabwe which we think ... are capable enough to
solve any internal issues."


The embassy further sought to assure the Zimbabwean foreign
ministry "of its highest consideration".


Mugabe's government is pursuing a violent crackdown on leaders of
the opposition Movement for Democratic Change, which has seen
several people arrested and severely beaten by the security
forces in recent days.


Angola and Zimbabwe are members of the Southern African
Development Community and have strong bilateral political ties in
spite of growing international condemnation of Zimbabwe's
political and economic downspiral under 83-year-old Mugabe, who
has ruled since independence in 1980.

