

Germany's 16 state leaders agreed on Thursday to ban smoking in
restaurants and bars but allowed exceptions for small bars and
premises with designated smoking rooms.


The deal allows smoking in certain rooms of restaurants and large
bars or pubs provided they are sealed off from the other rooms by
doors.


It will also make smoking illegal in discotheques, schools,
retirement homes and other public buildings.


The leader of Lower Saxony, Christian Wulff, hailed the agreement
as "a big step in the protection of passive smokers."


However, highly populated states including Lower Saxony won their
fight to exempt small bars from the restrictions.


One exception to the proposed law will be Munich's renowned
annual Oktoberfest beer festival, which successfully argued that
its giant beer tents should not be smoke-free.


An attempt by Chancellor Angela Merkel's government to impose a
nationwide smoking ban last year was rejected on constitutional
grounds, leading to attempts to introduce limited bans.


Last month the government approved a ban in rail stations, public
transport and federal buildings, which could take effect on
September 1 if it is backed by both houses of parliament.


Germany's federal system gives the states and not the federal
government power over facilities such as schools and hospitals as
well as restaurants and bars.


Germany is the biggest consumer of tobacco in Europe, with about
16.7 million smokers in a population of 82 million, according to
official figures.


In the European Union, Ireland, Italy, Malta and Spain have all
banned smoking in bars, restaurants and other public places.
Norway has also imposed such a ban.


Britain and France have passed legislation or decrees to ban
smoking in designated areas.

