

European Union trade chief Peter Mandelson said Thursday that he
would step down in 2009.


Mandelson, a former British Cabinet minister and close confidant
of Prime Minister Tony Blair, told BBC radio he would not seek
re-nomination after his current term expires.


He spoke out after speculation that his career might wilt if, as
expected, finance minister Gordon Brown takes over from Blair
within the next few months.


Brown and Mandelson have had a hostile relationship since
Mandelson backed Blair over Brown for the leadership of the
Labour Party in the early 1990s.


Asked if he would remain in office under Brown, Mandelson said:
"I don't know whether this is going to come as a disappointment
to him, but he can't actually fire me.


"So, like it or not, I'm afraid he will have to accept me as
commissioner until 2009.


"But I will not be seeking a nomination after that time."


Mandelson, who became EU trade commissioner in 2004 after twice
resigning from Blair's government, could have sought a second
term but his appointment would require approval from the British
premier.


He also made a barbed reference to the finance minister's
Euroscepticism during the interview, saying that international
diplomacy required "a great deal of personal attention and
bonding."


"It does require time, it does require effort and, if you want to
influence people in Europe, you have to bring a sense of European
conviction to the argument that you are making," he said.


"I think that when people see that in Gordon Brown -- should he
become prime minister -- they will find him as easy to work with
as Tony Blair."

