

The euro fell against the dollar on Thursday on profit-taking a
day after the European currency rose to its highest level against
the greenback for two years.


The euro fell slightly to 1.3328 dollars in late European
trading, from 1.3382 dollars late in New York on Wednesday.


The European single currency had peaked at 1.3411 dollars
overnight -- the highest level since March 17, 2005.


The dollar firmed to 118.19 yen from 117.53 yen late on
Wednesday. The price of gold rose to a three-week high.


The US Federal Reserve kept interest rates unchanged at 5.25
percent on Wednesday, but tweaked its policy statement in what
some saw as a move to lay the ground for a potential cut in rates
in the face of economic weakness.


The Federal Open Market Committee's new policy statement dropped
a reference to "firming" or hiking rates, substituting the phrase
with "future policy adjustments" that would depend on economic
data.


This fuelled hopes of a rate cut sometime soon, analysts said.


"This statement is a clear shift away from a tightening bias to a
neutral bias and is one further step closer to actual monetary
easing," said Derek Halpenny, senior currency economist at The
Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi.


Market watchers said the euro would continue to garner further
support.


"Euro buying sentiment is likely to stay strong for the time
being on expectations of a narrowing of interest rate
(differentials) between the euro and the dollar," Kaneko said.


Last week, the European Central Bank increased eurozone borrowing
costs by a quarter-point to a five-and-a-year high of 3.75
percent and analysts believe further increases are in the
pipeline.


The pound rose as high as 1.9726 dollars after news that British
retail sales leapt by 1.4 percent in February compared with the
previous month, marking the biggest monthly gain since January
2005.


Analysts said the stronger-than-expected data would likely
increase expectations of a rate hike some time soon. British
borrowing costs stand at 5.25 percent.


The price of gold climbed on Thursday to its highest level since
the start of this month, lifted by a weakening US dollar and firm
crude oil prices.


Gold prices hit as high as 666.92 dollars on the London Bullion
Market, reaching a level which was last seen on March 1, 2006.


"Gold prices continued to strengthen ... driven by the weaker
dollar  following the FOMC announcement and further buoyed by the
firmer oil prices," said Barclays Capital analyst Sudakshina
Unnikrishnan.


The euro was changing hands at 1.3328 dollars, against 1.3382
dollars on Wednesday, 157.54 yen (157.53), 0.6786 pounds (0.6799)
and 1.6204 Swiss francs (1.6185).


The dollar stood at 118.19 yen (117.53) and 1.2163 Swiss francs
(1.2091).


The pound was being traded at 1.9642 dollars (1.9678).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold rose to 663
dollars per ounce, from 658.75 dollars late on Wednesday.

