

Top-tier Democratic presidential candidate John Edwards announced
Thursday his wife Elizabeth had suffered a recurrence of cancer
but said his 2008 White House campaign would go on.


"Her cancer is back," Edwards told reporters at a news conference
in North Carolina, adding that his wife's condition was
incurable, but could be treated and the couple were optimistic
about the future.


Asked whether he would be forced to suspend his campaign, as
earlier reported, Edwards answered : "No. The campaign goes on.
The campaign goes on strongly," he said.


The diagnosis for Elizabeth Edwards, 57, threw another intangible
element into the accelerating 2008 race, in which Edwards is
considered a top tier candidate along with Democratic front-
runners Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama.


Elizabeth Edwards was first diagnosed with breast cancer in
November 2004, as her husband, the former Democratic vice
presidential nominee slumped to an election defeat with running
mate Senator John Kerry to President George W. Bush.


Edwards, 53, broke off a campaign swing to Iowa to return to his
wife's side for a follow-up medical appointment earlier this
week, amid fears her health had taken a turn for the worse.


He said that a biopsy had shown that his wife had cancer in the
bone on a rib on her right-hand side.


"It's largely confined in bone, which is a good thing," he said.
"We are very optimistic about this."


The former vice presidential nominee, a multi-millionaire former
trial lawyer, with folksy southern-style political skills, is
tucked in just behind the front- runners in national polls.


He is seen as a formidable contender in the key midwestern state
of Iowa, currently scheduled to hold its caucus nominating
contest for the Democratic nomination on January 14, 2008.

