

Europe's main stock markets closed sharply higher on Thursday as
investors focused on takeover activity and prospects for a cut in
US interest rates later this year.


In European trading, the London FTSE 100 index advanced 0.98
percent to close at 6,318 points, in Paris the CAC 40 index rose
1.75 percent to 5,598.37 while in Frankfurt the Dax added 2.16
percent to finish at 6,856.96.


The DJ Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone blue chip shares increased
2.25 percent to 4,170.08 points.


The euro stood at 1.3325 dollars.


Wall Street stocks drifted lower Thursday as the market digested
a powerful rally a day earlier fueled by comments by the Federal
Reserve.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 0.24 percent to 12,418.04
in midday trading after a big 1.3 percent gain on Wednesday.


The Nasdaq composite dropped 0.46 percent to 2,444.68 while the
broad-market Standard & Poor's 500 retreated 0.30 percent to
1,430.79.


Analysts said European stock market had gained reassurance from
the Fed's announcement as analysts observed that the central bank
had given a hint that lower interest rates were more likely.


Stock market investors favour rate cuts, which lower the cost of
borrowing short-term cash for companies, dealers said.


Japanese share prices closed at a three-week high point on
Thursday.


In Europe, the price of shares in French civil engineering group
Eiffage shot up 14.78 percent to 97.79 euros in Paris on rumoured
interest from Spanish construction group Sacyr Vallehermoso,
market sources said.


Sacyr Vallehermoso now owns slightly more than 32.0 percent of
Eiffage and if its holding exceeds 33.3 percent it must make a
takeover bid under French law.


Financial stocks found further support from recent news that
British bank Barclays was in merger talks with Dutch group ABN
Amro.


Barclays shares rose 3.72 percent to 739 pence in London, while
ABN Amro stock added 1.77 percent to 31.70 euros in Amsterdam.


In Asia on Thursday, Tokyo's benchmark Nikkei-225 index of
leading shares rose 1.49 percent at 17,419.20 points -- the best
finish since March 1.


Tokyo played catch-up with two days of gains in US stocks after a
national holiday in Japan on Wednesday, dealers said.


Hong Kong's key Hang Seng Index closed 0.89 percent higher at
19,690.25 points.


Elsewhere in Europe, in Milan the SP/Mib index gained 2.03
percent to 41,547 points, in Madrid the Ibex 35 added 1.26
percent to 14,490.1 points, while in Amsterdam the AEX rose 1.62
percent to 509.01 points.


In Brussels, the Bel 20 gained 2.01 percent to 4,470 points and
the Swiss SMI gained 1.48 percent to 9,074.25 points.

