

The UN's human rights chief, Louise Arbour, on Thursday called
for an impartial investigation into the deaths of at least 25
people during clashes in Nepal between an ethnic group and
Maoists.


The statement from the High Commissioner for Human Rights
followed a visit by Arbour's permanent envoy in the country to
the southern town of Gaur, where police have imposed a curfew.


"Our teams confirmed, first hand, the killing of 25 individuals,
most of whom died of severe head wounds apparently caused by
beatings from bamboo sticks," Arbour said.


"I urge the authorities to take all necessary steps to initiate a
full and impartial investigation into the killings and other
violent incidents, and to hold accountable anyone found to be
responsible," she added.


Only a small number of law enforcement personnel were deployed to
the incidents even though there was a "considerable" security
presence in the region, the UN rights chief said.


The violence erupted on Wednesday in the town of Gaur, near the
border with India. The area is dominated by the Mahadhesi ethnic
group, whose activists have staged a series of deadly protests
since January.


Officials in Nepal said least 29 people were killed and dozens
injured in Wednesday's clashes.


On Thursday, hundreds of Maoists gathered in the Nepalese
capital, Kathmandu, to call for action against the perpetrators
of the violence and to demand government compensation.


Arbour cautioned that the incident in Gaur must not be allowed to
jeopardise the country's peace process, and called on the leaders
of all groups to resolve their differences through dialogue.


Maoist rebels and the central government signed a peace deal four
months ago.


The Maoists have accused King Gyanendra of fomenting ethnic
violence in the south to undermine the deal, which is expected to
result in Nepal being declared a republic.

