

The US Marine Corps has extended the deployment to Okinawa of
elements of a 2,000-strong expeditionary unit for five months to
ease the tempo of its Iraq rotations, a spokeswoman said
Thursday.


The move is aimed at giving other marine units at least seven
months at home to prepare before deploying to Iraq, said Captain
Amy Malagani.


"If they are extended there we don't have to extend other troops
to support that deployment cycle," she said.


The 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit, is headquartered in Okinawa
and filled with units based in California and Arizona.


The extended units include an infantry battalion, a battery
company, a light armored reconnaissance platoon, a platoon from
an amphibious assault battalion, an attack helicopter squadron,
two other helicopter detachments.


"This extension is for approximately five months," the Marine
Corps said in a statement. "These units were originally scheduled
to return from deployment during August 2007, but are now
projected to return during January 2008."


The Marine Corps' goal has been to give marines at least 14
months between rotations to Iraq to rest, reset their equipment
and train to prepare for their next deployment.


But the so called "dwell time" has fallen to an average of seven
months between rotations, and commanders worry that sustaining
the surge will cut even deeper into the down time of Iraq-bound
units.


Keeping marines in Okinawa away from home longer eases the
pressure to extend marine units in Iraq.


"This prevents us from extending others who are in Iraq,"
Malagani said. "It provides more options for the marine corps
while we're sustaining. And it helps mitigate the unit
deployment/dwell time ratio."

