

Croatians should decide on their country's membership of NATO in
a referendum, non-governmental organisations said Thursday,
voicing concern after the government suggested a vote was not
essential.


"The government should prepare and present to the citizens as
soon as possible complete, correct and unbiased information on
the advantages and costs of admission or non-admission to NATO,"
a group of 33 non-governmental organsations said in an open
letter to Croatian leaders.


Thereafter, "we would call on deputies, the president and the
government to call a referendum on Croatia's admission to NATO in
accordance with the constitution," it said.


Prime Minister Ivo Sanader said Wednesday that a referendum on
Croatia's admission to NATO was unnecessary.


Sanader's government hopes the Balkan country will be invited to
join the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation next year.


A strong majority of Croatians are against their country becoming
a NATO member. According to the most recent opinion polls, only
around a third of the country's population supports the idea.


The NGOs criticised the government for not doing enough to
generate public dialogue on NATO membership and stressed it
failed to develop any alternatives.


"The government is leading a campaign with the goal to promote
Croatia's  entry into NATO and not to communicate with citizens
about advantages and disadvantages of the membership in the
alliance."


Croatia's conservative government has labeled its efforts to
become a member of NATO and the European Union as a "strategic
goal."


In mid-2006, it pledged to raise public support for NATO
membership.

