

Michael Phelps made it look ridiculously easy again as he cruised
into the semi- finals of the 200-metres medley, one of his four
world record events, at the world championships Wednesday.


The 21-year-old American superstar, who smashed Ian Thorpe's
world record in the 200m freestyle on Tuesday, coasted home in
one minute 58.70 seconds ahead of the semi-finals later
Wednesday.


He did just enough to gain the top seeding in front of Hungarian
Laszlo Cseh (1:58.78).


Phelps is looking to claim his third gold as he bids for a record
eight gold medals at the 12th world titles. He has won the 200m
medley at every major international event since 2003.


Only six-hundredths of a second separated the top four qualifiers
in the men's 100m freestyle headed by American Jason Lezak.


Lezak won his heat in 49.02secs, but was fractionally ahead of
Italian defending champion Filippo Magnini (49.05), Dutch world
record holder Pieter van den Hoogenband (49.06) and Frenchman
Alain Bernard (49.08).


Lezak heads the 16 fastest into the semi-finals later Wednesday
as he bids to make his fourth consecutive world 100m final.


"I have a history of making a big mistake in the morning, going
out too hard and not pacing it well," Lezak said.


"For the next one I'll have to get off pretty fast to stay ahead
of the guys in my field."


If Magnini wins gold he will become only the third swimmer after
American Matt Biondi and Russian Alexander Popov to win back-to-
back 100m freestyle world titles.


"The first lap was quite bad and I can still improve on the
dive," Magnini said. "At about 70m when I saw that I had got
Roland Schoeman I slowed down."


Van den Hoogenband has never won a world title but goes into the
semi-finals winning two consecutive Olympic gold medals in Sydney
and Athens.


"It was good to have a swim again after yesterday's 200m
freestyle final, because that is still a bit in my legs," Hoogie
said.


"In tonight's semi-finals we are really going for it."


South African Schoeman, a silver medallist behind Magnini at the
last worlds, sneaked into the last 16 as the 15th fastest
qualifier with 49.46.


World record holder Jessicah Schipper swam only ninth fastest as
Canadian Audrey Lacroix upstaged her to be the top seed into the
semi-finals of the 200m butterfly.


Lacroix clocked 2:08.12 ahead of Poland's Otilya Jedrzejczak
(2:08.38), but Australia's Schipper put in the ninth best time of
2:09.83, almost 4.5 seconds outside her world record of 2:05.40.


"That's surreal. That can't be true. Oh, my god. That's the best
swim I've ever had. I beat my personal best by a-second-
and-a-half," Lacroix said.


"Now I can see that Jessicah probably wasn't giving everything
but I didn't know that in advance."


Schipper said it was her intention to back off in the final 100m.


"The plan was to go out hard in the first 100m to see if I could
do the pace and then back off in the second 100m. It still hurt a
little bit. There's no such thing as easy butterfly," Schipper
said.


American Leila Vaziri set a championship record of 28.25secs in
the heats of the women's 50m breaststroke to advance to the semi-
finals fastest ahead of Aliaksandra Herasimenia (28.71) and
France's Laure Manaudou (28.84).


"It's pretty unbelievable, I wasn't expecting that at all,"
Vaziri said.

