

Guillermo Canas stunned world No 1 Roger Federer for the second
time in three weeks, earning a 7-6 (7/2), 2-6, 7-6 (7/5) win in
the fourth round of the ATP/WTA Miami Masters Series event.


"I am really surprised because I beat the No 1 in the world two
times," Canas, of Argentina, said. "I played great tennis. It is
like a dream."


Canas's win Tuesday validated a convincing straight-sets upset on
March 11 at the Indian Wells Masters Series tournament that
snapped Federer's 41-match winning streak.


Canas improved to 3-1 all-time against the tournament's top seed.


"I messed it up," Federer said. "I played so much better than a
couple of weeks ago. I was really expecting to win tonight. It is
one of those matches I should have never lost."


Just hours earlier, Serena Williams humiliated the top-seeded
Maria Sharapova for the second time this year with a convincing
6-1, 6-1 fourth round win at the 6.9 million dollar tournament.


Williams' dismantling of Sharapova looked remarkably similar to
her 6-1, 6-2 demolition in the Australian Open final and further
confirmed her renewed commitment to tennis after over than a year
of injuries and distractions.


"I know if I'm playing well, then anything can happen," said
Williams, a two- time champion of this event.


Williams deployed her power game to neutralize the length and
court coverage of the 6-1 Sharapova, whose grunts and groans
intensify with the importance of the points and could easily be
heard above the crowd.


As she was in Melbourne eight weeks ago, the 13th-seeded Williams
was relentless, winning the last five games of the first set and
the last six of the second set. She never faced a break point and
converted five of her own.


"I never think about, 'I'm winning. It's easy.' Because every
point, Maria is a fighter. She doesn't give up," Williams said.


Williams is looking less like the overweight, undermotivated
player she was last year and more like the eight-time Grand Slam
winner.


"I don't know anyone who's won eight Grand Slams and had so many
doubters in her life," Williams said.


Tuesday's romp came a day after she was heckled during her third-
round win over Czech Lucie Safarova.


Told by the heckler to "Hit the net like any Negro would,"
Williams was rattled at the time. "It was over once the match was
over," Williams said.


Meanwhile, Sharapova failed to reach the quarter-finals as the
top seed for the second straight event, raising questions about
her game.


"You obviously go out on the practice court and work on it," she
said.  "It'll take time, but I'm sure I'll get there."


Canas also has had a long road back. In September, he returned
from a 15-month suspension for using a banned substance and has
been playing his way back into form.


Canas immediately put the pressure on the two-time defending
champion by winning the first set.


Federer found his form in the second set but continually
struggled with his return game that saw him convert just four-
of-16 break points.


"I could have won but I didn't do it, so it is disappointing,"
Federer said. "He scrambles back so many balls and doesn't miss
much. I have a feeling sometimes players play better against me
than they would against other players because they have nothing
to lose."


The match was played in an electric atmosphere because of the
high number of South American fans.


"As long as they don't boo my Swiss flag," Federer said. "South
America doesn't have a Masters Series so they consider this one
as theirs."


Federer's second straight early departure again opens the door
for second seed Rafael Nadal of Spain, who beat Juan Martin Del
Potro of Argentina.    Nadal won the Pacific Life Open, his first
tourney victory since the 2006 French Open.


Third-seeded Andy Roddick continued his strong play this season
with a 7-5, 6-3 victory over 13th-seeded David Ferrer of Spain.


Up next for Roddick is 12th seed Andy Murray of Britain, who
stormed back from the brink of elimination for a 2-6, 7-5, 6-3
victory over Paul-Henri Mathieu of France.


"There was somebody in the crowd who at 5-3, match point down,
shouted at me, 'Murray, you've got nothing,'" Murray said. "And I
was like, 'Well, I do.'"

