

Malaysia's central bank Wednesday launched the first-ever Islamic
monetary product based on crude palm oil contracts in efforts to
develop the nation as a global Islamic financial hub.


Bank Negara governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz said the new Commodity
Murabahah Programme (CMP) will diversify products on offer to
manage short-term liquidity in the Islamic inter-bank money
market.


"The CMP is designed to be the first ever commodity-based
transaction that uses crude palm based contracts as its
underlying asset," Zeti told an international Islamic finance
forum.


Malaysia is the world's biggest producer of palm oil and with
Indonesia, accounts for 85 percent of world output.


Islamic finance fuses principles of sharia or Islamic law and
modern banking. Under the murabahah concept, both parties must
agree on the profit margin of a sales transaction.


Zeti said the central bank had already conducted several CMP
transactions with Malaysian Islamic banks to manage liquidity in
the banking system and such facilities would help financial links
with Middle East nations.


"As commodity murabahah is widely used in other Islamic centres,
it is envisaged that this CMP will promote increased linkages
between Malaysia and these centres," she said.


Zeti also said Bank Negara intended to diversify the issuing of
Islamic monetary notes to include the murabahah concept.


Bank Negara meanwhile introduced the first global Islamic
derivatives agreement which will document derivatives
transactions and promote transparency.


The agreement will be used to govern Islamic derivative
transactions under sharia principles.

