

The dollar was lower in Asian trade Wednesday following weak US
economic indicators but the market was quiet ahead of testimony
by US Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke, dealers said.


The dollar fell to 117.24 yen in Wednesday afternoon trade from
117.91 yen in New York late Tuesday.


The euro changed hands at 1.3353 dollars, up from 1.3344, and at
156.54 yen after 157.48.


"The dollar remains under selling pressure following weaker
economic indicators as well as developments related to the Iran
issue," said Yosuke Hosokawa, head of forex group at Chuo Mitsui
Trust Bank.


Iran, a major oil producer, has defied the UN Security Council by
pressing ahead with uranium enrichment and there seems to be a
growing stand-off with the West over Tehran's nuclear programme.


In the United States, the consumer confidence index fell to 107.2
from a revised 111.2 in February. Analysts had expected a reading
of 109.


The weak figure came after a big disappointment a day earlier in
a report on new home sales that raised concerns of further
problems in the housing market that could spread into the broader
economy.


"Generally speaking, trading is directionless as there are no
particular elements to strongly support the yen," Hosokawa said.
"Players are now trying to find a lead to take action."


Many market participants were on the sidelines ahead of
Bernanke's congressional testimony later Wednesday, hoping for
clues on the US central bank's outlook for the housing market and
wider economy.


"A lot of players want to see how Bernanke is assessing the
current condition of the US economy as the Fed appears neutral on
the prospects," Hosokawa said.


The market is also waiting for a slew of Japanese data out Friday
including inflation and preliminary industrial production for
February.


The central bank will release the closely watched quarterly
Tankan survey of business confidence on Monday.


The dollar rose to 1.5174 Singapore dollars from 1.5173 late
Wednesday, to 48.220 Philippine pesos from 48.075 and to 9,133
Indonesian rupiah from 9,108.


The US unit fell to 33.038 Taiwan dollars from 33.091, to 940.80
South Korean won from 940.85 and to 31.98 Thai baht from 32.40.

