

Thailand's junta leader said Wednesday Islamic separatists have
infiltrated villages across the Muslim-majority south, making it
difficult to identify the militants.


General Sonthi Boonyaratglin also told reporters that militants
had intensified their attacks in recent months to scare residents
from cooperating with authorities.


"The severity of the violence has increased after the coup, but
it is because of the insurgents," he said after visiting an
education project for Muslim youth in southern Thailand's
Songkhla province.


"Insurgents target innocent people and try to create fear among
local people," he added.


"The tactics of the insurgents have changed considerably. They
now infiltrate into local communities."


Because the insurgents had blended into the communities, he said,
"the government has difficulty in identifying who is behind the
violence."


"Even after arrests, insurgents are sworn to secrecy so we don't
know the masterminds of the violence. They don't expose who they
are," he said.


Since Sonthi seized power in a coup six months ago, violence has
surged in the Muslim-majority provinces along the southern border
with Malaysia, where more than 2,000 people have been killed in
three years of unrest.


Sonthi is the first Muslim to lead the army in this mainly
Buddhist country, and his takeover had sparked hopes that he
would find a way to end the unrest.


But despite a raft of peace initiatives by the government he
installed, the violence has sharply intensified in recent months.


As Sonthi visited the education project in Songkhla's Hat Yai, a
key southern commercial centre only occasionally hit by the
insurgency, authorities said they had captured 11 militants in
Narathiwat province.


The military also seized two M-16s, three guns, radio
communication equipment, medical supplies and about 2,500 dollars
worth of Thai baht and Malaysian ringgit during a pre-dawn raid
on a mosque, officials said.

