

IG Metall, the powerful industrial labour union in Germany, sees
no reason to water down a claim for a 6.5-percent rise in pay,
the union's deputy chief said in a newspaper interview on
Wednesday.


The union represents workers in the electrical, engineering and
metalworking sectors.


Responding to an offer from employers to raise pay by 2.5
percent, with an additional bonus of 0.5 percent, IG Metall's
number two Berthold Huber told the daily Frankfurter Rundschau
that the offer was a "basis for discussion".


But it entailed "massive flaws", Huber complained.


"Employers are presenting us with a wage ladder where the rungs
have been sawn," the union official said.


Given the favourable situation in the sector, IG Metall's demand
for wage increases of 6.5 percent was "well founded" and there
was no cause "to move away from" that demand, Huber said.


On Tuesday, employers in southwest Germany tabled an offer of
wage increases of 3.0 percent to 800,000 engineering and metal
workers in the region.


The regional employers' federation Suedwestmetall said the offer
entailed an underlying wage rise of 2.5 percent, plus a one-off
"economic bonus" of an additional 0.5 percent over a period of 12
months.


The pay talks in the German engineering and metal-working sectors
are conducted on a regional basis. And it was the first time that
a concrete offer had been put on the table from the employers'
side.


On Tuesday, the head of IG Metall's regional branch, Joerg
Hoffmann, already dismissed the proposal as "completely
insufficient" and "pure eyewash."


In 2006, IG Metall demanded a pay rise of five percent but had to
settle for three percent. It has said it will not accept an offer
below four percent this year.


The Gesamtmetall nationwide employers' federation has that this
year's deal should not exceed the 3.0-percent settlement in 2006.


The outcome of the IG Metall wage negotiations usually serves as
a benchmark for wage increases in other sectors.

