

Struggling Sanyo Electric said Wednesday its president will step
down, ending the six-decade reign of the company's founding
family as losses mount.


The resignation came one week after the company's chairwoman also
stepped down amid a scandal over alleged window-dressing.


President Toshimasa Iue, a member of the family that founded
Sanyo making bicycle lamps after World War II, will quit
effective Monday, the Osaka-based company said in a statement.


He will be succeeded by Seiichiro Sano, a three-decade veteran of
the company who is now vice president.


Sano, who ends the Iue family's management of the company, said
he will continue the restructuring drive at Sanyo, which is
slashing thousands of jobs in a bid to revive sales.


"With a view to successfully complete the mid-term management
plan, we will push forward as a company in unison and we will
pursue our restructuring efforts," Sano said in the statement.


The company did not specify the reason for Iue's resignation.


But Japanese media have reported that financial institutions,
which have taken control of the firm, have tried to sideline the
founding family because it resisted drastic changes such as
slashing entire business segments.


Last year, Sanyo issued 2.6 billion dollars' worth of new shares
to Goldman Sachs, Daiwa Securities SMBC and Sumitomo Mitsui
Banking, which together took five of the nine seats on the
company's board.


Sanyo Electric last week announced the resignation of its
chairwoman Tomoko Nonaka, one of Japan's highest-profile female
executives.


Nonaka -- a former television journalist with no previous
experience in corproate management -- was brought in two years
ago in a surprise move to shake up the company.


Japanese media said she quit because she wanted the Sanyo board
to more fully probe the accounting irregularities. Sanyo denied
the report, saying only that she resigned for personal reasons.

