

Hong Kong share prices closed 0.78 percent lower Wednesday
tracking falls on overseas markets after weak data renewed
worries over the US economy, dealers said.


They noted that blue chips such as HSBC and China Mobile were
also pressured by trade related to the expiry of March futures
contracts on Thursday.


The Hang Seng Index closed down 152.92 points at 19,553.87, off a
high of 19,729.31 and a low of 19,459.19. Turnover was 49.65
billion Hong Kong dollars (6.4 billion US).


"The market extended yesterday's losses due mainly to continuous
falls in the US market and weakness on the Tokyo bourse.
Investors worried about the US economy amid recent negative
economic data," said Castor Pang, strategist at Sun Hung Kai
Financial group.


Pang said that expiry of March futures contracts Thursday also
kept trading volatile.


He added that a stronger yen has given rise to fresh concerns
over the unwinding of carry trades, affecting market sentiment in
general.


Investors will watch closely what US Federal Reserve chairman Ben
Bernanke will say in his Congressional testimony later in the day
after recent economic indicators re-ignited worries over the US
housing sector, dealers said.


Among blue chips, China Mobile closed down 0.75 at 69.80 and HSBC
was down 1.50 at 135.50.


Other local banks were also lower, with Hang Seng Bank down 0.30
at 109.10 and Bank of East Asia down 0.45 at 44.55.


Li and Fung fell 0.60 to 24.90 on concerns over its exposure to
the US market.


PCCW was up 0.02 ahead of its 2006 results announcement.


Dah Sing Banking Group was down 0.08 at 16.78 after reporting
that its 2006 net profit rose to 1.20 billion dollars from 978.83
million dollars a year earlier.


Asia Financial extended Tuesday's gains, surging 0.23 at 3.51
after reporting that its net profit rose to 3.09 billion dollars
last year from 185.58 million dollars in 2005.


Cheuk Nang Holdings lost 0.02 at 6.17 after posting early gains
following its successful bid for a residential site in a
government land auction.


Other local property stocks were also lower, with Cheung Kong
down 1.15 at 96.90 and Sino Land down 0.38 at 16.46.


Among other China-related stocks, China Construction Bank was
down 0.06 at 4.41, Chalco was down 0.12 at 7.95, PetroChina
gained 0.02 at 9.0 and China Life fell 0.20 to 22.15.

