

China's 3-1 victory over Uzbekistan in an international friendly
has likely saved embattled coach Zhu Guanghu's job for the time
being, state-run media said on Wednesday.


China beat the Uzbeks in Macau on Tuesday thanks to two first-
half goals from Han Peng in a match in which the Chinese
dominated ball possession and launched more attacks than their
opponents.


"This victory gives the national team a psychological boost and
puts them in a better position heading into the Asian Cup," said
a commentary in Wednesday's Beijing News headlined, "Zhu Guanghu
wins a future."


The Beijing Daily Messenger echoed those sentiments. "This
victory will temporarily help Zhu get over this crisis of
confidence," an analysis in the paper said.


However, other commentaries noted the Chinese squad's worrying
passivity in the second half and the fact many top Uzbek players
did not take the pitch.


Zhu has faced mounting calls to quit after a series of
disappointing performances by his side in recent months.


Those calls flared again in recent days following a tame 2-0
defeat on the weekend to an Australian squad that was missing
many of its top players due to club action in Europe.


Sections of the crowd chanted for Zhu's resignation during the
Australian  game, played just days after the coach's car was
attacked by dozens of angry fans as he left a match in the
southeastern city of Xiamen.


Zhu took over the national team in March 2005 after their failure
to qualify for last year's World Cup under his predecessor Arie
Haan.


China face a tough task in the knock-out stages for this summer's
Asian Cup when they will face Iran, Uzbekistan and Malaysia.

