

The European Union is preparing a massive civilian mission to
help Kosovo achieve independence and wants it operational four
months after the province's future status becomes clear, an
official said.


The EU deployment is "the biggest civilian crisis management
operation ever", according to a new joint paper by EU foreign
policy chief Javier Solana and Enlargement Commissioner Olli
Rehn, the official explained on Wednesday.


The mission "will be fully operational after a transitional
period of 120 days, and for a minimum period of two years," said
the joint paper, to be presented to EU foreign ministers on
Friday.


It is expected to cost the 27-country bloc 120 million euros (160
million dollars) each year, plus 90 million euros for "initial
investment".


The total cost to the international community of supervising the
move to independence is estimated at between 1.3-1.5 billion
euros in the three years from 2008-2010.


After a year of fruitless talks between Serbian and Kosovar
authorities, UN envoy to Kosovo Martti Ahtisaari recommended
Monday that the Serbian province be awarded "independence,
supervised by the international community".


Kosovo has been administered by the United Nations since 1999,
when a NATO bombing campaign end a brutal crackdown, including
ethnic cleansing, by Serb forces against the large separatist
minded ethnic-Albanian majority.


The bulk of the work to be done in assuring that transition,
which still has to overcome major obstacles to be approved by the
UN Security Council, would fall to the EU, with NATO playing the
key security role.


The Solana-Rehn paper outlines the future presence, which from
the EU's point of view would involve from 1,300-1,500
international police, judges, prosecutors, and customs officials
based in Pristina, an EU document said.

