

A Japanese court on Wednesday sentenced to death a man who killed
three people after making suicide pacts with them on the
Internet.


The Osaka District Court sentenced Hiroshi Maeue, 38, to the
gallows for suffocating to death the three and filming the
killings.


"The crime was cruel, harsh and outrageous," presiding Judge
Kazuo Mizushima said in court, according to Jiji Press.


"This was a crime aimed at fulfilling the accused's sexual
desire," Mizushima said. "It is difficult for him to change these
unusual characteristics. We cannot help but give the extreme
penalty."


The unemployed Maeue, who pleaded guilty, bowed deeply to the
judge when he asked him to pray for the souls of his victims,
Jiji said.


The court said that Maeue got to know the victims through Japan's
widely publicised phenomenon of suicide websites.


In one case, he met a 25-year-old woman online and proposed that
they kill themselves together. But when they entered the car for
the suicide in February 2005, he bound her with ropes and choked
her to death, the court said.


The accused was also convicted of killing a 21-year-old college
student and a 14 -year-old junior high school student in similar
plots. He demanded a ransom for the high school student's return
after killing him.


A court-ordered examination found that Maeue did not have any
mental disorder and that he was mentally competent.


Japan has witnessed a growing number of Internet suicide pacts
arranged among strangers who die together near peaceful sites
such as mountains, often poisoning themselves with carbon
monoxide using charcoal burners.

