

Chinese share prices closed mixed Wednesday as morning profit-
taking was offset by strong capital inflows in afternoon trade,
with banking stocks and steelmakers gaining ground in very heavy
trade, dealers said.


They said institutions came into the market after the initial
drop, with investors trying to anticipate the launch of futures
contracts while the fundamentals of strong growth and an
appreciating yuan provide support.


Turnover was exceptionally heavy at more than 28 billion dollars.


The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index, which covers both A- and
B-shares, closed up 34.19 points or 1.09 percent at 3,173.02,
another record finish made on turnover of 151.12 billion yuan
(19.51 billion US dollars).


The Shanghai A-share Index added 36.23 points or 1.10 percent to
3,334.57 on turnover of 150.52 billion yuan.


The Shenzhen A-share Index, however, was down 6.26 points or 0.71
percent at 872.73 on turnover of 69.40 billion yuan, having
recovered from morning losses of 3.07 percent.


"The market was boosted by strong institutional buying in the
afternoon after seeing some profit-taking earlier, with
heavyweight banks and steel stocks in demand in the run-up to the
launching of index futures," Wang Mingzhi, an analyst at GF
Securities said.


Dealers said the momentum is expected to continue on the back of
strong money inflows.


"The overall bullish trend is unlikely to be disrupted by these
corrections as market fundamentals are still solid and fund
inflows remain strong," Shen Jun, an analyst at Shangzhenglian
Consulting, of the morning downturn.


Huaxia Bank was up 0.82 yuan or 7.82 percent at 11.31 and China
Merchants Bank added 0.74 yuan or 4.50 percent at 17.20.


Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC) was up 0.14 yuan
or 2.71 percent at 5.33 and Bank of China up 0.15 yuan or 2.90
percent at 5.33.


Inner Mongolia Baotou Steel Union rose 0.28 yuan or 5.01 percent
at 5.87 while Handan Iron Steel put on 0.29 yuan or 4.45 percent
at 6.81.


BOE Technology Group was up by its 10 percent daily limit at 5.48
yuan despite announcing massive losses for 2006.


Airline stocks were weighed down by higher oil prices amid
growing tensions over Iran. Air China was down 0.17 yuan or 2.06
percent at 8.08, with China Eastern Airlines Corp off 0.14 yuan
or 2.61 percent at 5.23.


The Shanghai B-share Index fell 0.43 points or 0.24 percent to
179.18 on turnover of 595.74 million US dollars and the Shenzhen
B-share Index was up 0.98 points or 0.19 percent at 520.75 on
turnover of 691.31 million Hong Kong dollars (89.20 million US
dollars).

