

Matsushita Electric Industrial Co. said Wednesday it would begin
a telework programme for nearly half of its employees in Japan as
part of the private sector's effort to cope with an ageing
society.


Some 30,000 of its 76,000 employees, excluding factory workers,
safety inspectors, secretaries and some others, will be eligible
to work from home starting on April 1, said the electronics giant
behind the Panasonic brand.


Under the programme, applicants will be allowed to work from home
once or twice a week on average, with the company loaning out
computers and cameras to them for on-line conferences.


The stay-home workers will do their jobs through high-speed
Internet lines and report their hours to their supervisors by
e-mail or telephone, the company said.


"Tackling the concerns of rapid ageing and the low birthrate is a
common task for both the management and the labour union," said
company spokesman Akira Kadota.


"The programme will allow our employees to have job flexibility
to take care of children or the elderly," the spokesman said.


"On the other hand, it will allow the company to secure talented
workers as the country is faced with the problem of an ageing
society," Kadota said. "We have to change ourselves in accordance
with a change in society."


The elderly made up some 20 percent of Japan's total population
in 2004 -- and that number is expected to soar past 35 percent by
2050.


Japan's birthrate is hovering at record lows as more young people
decide to put off having children, believing they cannot juggle
families with their careers or lifestyles.


The Nikkei business daily predicted that Matsushita's move would
lead to more calls to ease Japan's strict labour regulations.


IBM Japan Ltd., which adopted a work-from-home policy for all
personnel in 2001, has led the way in telecommuting in Japan.
Depending on the department, roughly 30 percent of IBM Japan
workers telecommute one or two days a week.

