

Singapore's founding father Lee Kuan Yew sparked angry protest in
Canberra Wednesday when he received an honorary degree which
critics said ignored his opposition to democracy.


Lee, Singapore's prime minister from independence until 1990, was
awarded an honorary doctorate in laws amid high security at the
prestigious Australian National University.


More than 50 protesters, including law academics and students,
demonstrated at the campus but 83-year-old Lee said he was
unfazed.


"If they didn't protest nobody would know that I was given an
honorary degree at ANU," he said. "Despite their protest, the ANU
proceeded and I was not deterred from coming."


Lee also engaged in a heated exchange with Australian
journalists, telling them Singapore would hit "rock bottom" if
they were in charge.


The decision to award the degree to Lee, known for an
authoritarian rule which brought prosperity to his small island
state, was an abuse of the university's honour system, said Bob
Brown, leader of the Greens party.


"I object and many other Australians will object to this crass
use of the degree system to honour someone who doesn't deserve
it," he said.


Lee is someone "who's a traitor to democratic ideals and who has
eliminated opposition effectively, including having people jailed
and held in jail without sentence," Brown said.


"He eliminated opposition as effectively as he eliminated chewing
gum."


Australian Foreign Minister Alexander Downer on Monday said
despite concerns about Singapore's human rights record, Lee was
"a great regional leader."

