

French and German investment agencies released Wednesday "The
European Attractiveness Scoreboard" in a bid to improve the
continent's business image and attract investors.


The study portrayed the European Union as the world's leading
market, with a population of roughly five hundred million and a
gross domestic product (GDP) of 14 trillion dollars (10.5
trillion euros) in 2006.


That compared with the United States' population of around 300
million and GDP of 13 trillion dollars over the same period.


The study was based on 56 criteria including household income,
labour productivity, research and development investment, and
infrastructure.


It compared China, Europe, India, Japan, Korea, Latin America,
Russia and the United States.


The study aimed to use "factual, quantitative data collected by
international institutions," as opposed to "perceptual surveys
conducted on small samples."


The European School of Management in Berlin and the HEC School of
Management in Paris designed the survey, which was "prepared to
rigorous academic standards" and is to be updated every two
years.


The report identified Europe's leading position for exports of
goods and services "including in the high tech sphere" such as
aerospace and railway manufacturing.


But it recognised that the continent was weaker in the field of
research, with lower investment as a share of GDP in knowledge-
intensive areas than Japan, Korea and the United States, and
fewer scientists than in the US.


In terms of the number of hours worked annually, Europe was next
to last, ahead of Russia but far behind the leaders, Korea, India
and China.


Nevertheless, overall European productivity fared better, placing
second, just behind the US.


The number of days lost to industrial action in the private
sector was fewer in Europe than in Korea, India and the United
States. But the study did not cover the private sector, which is
where many European strikes take place.

