

World oil prices soared on Wednesday after spiking to 69 dollars
per barrel in London late on Tuesday following an unsubstantiated
rumour that Iran had attacked an American ship, traders said.


In European trading on Wednesday, the price of Brent North Sea
crude for May delivery leapt 1.02 dollars to 65.62 dollars a
barrel in electronic trading.


Overnight, Brent crude had surged as high as 69.00 dollars per
barrel -- which was last seen on September 4, 2006.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, jumped 1.10 dollars to 64.03 dollars in
electronic deals on Tuesday. It peaked overnight at 64.46 dollars
-- last reached on September 13, 2006.


"Prices late yesterday (Tuesday) evening briefly spiked very
sharply to the upside on the back of what appears to be a rumour
that Iran had attacked a US ship," said Bache Financial broker
Tony Machacek.


"We do not know where this rumour has come from but an hour or so
after the rumour the US military basically denied any knowledge
of any attack against any of their vessels so the market has
subsequently calmed down and moderated."


Separately, according to analysts at Dutch bank ABN Amro, crude
futures had surged overnight because of "rumours that UK troops
had engaged with Iranian soldiers."


The rumours came amid sizzling geopolitical tensions over Iran's
disputed nuclear programme, and the recent seizure of 15 British
sailors by the Islamic republic.


Traders are fretting over Iran because the country is the world's
fourth-biggest crude producer.


"The market is still very nervous about the Iranian situation.
The rumour yesterday evening just shows how volatile the markets
are," Machacek said.


He added that there was "no sign" of the 15 seized navy personnel
being released by Iran.


Britain was set to publish evidence Wednesday that 15 of its
sailors held by Iran were wrongly seized in Iraqi waters, reports
said, raising the stakes in the mounting standoff with Tehran.

