

Veteran spinner Anil Kumble has retired from one-day cricket
after India's early World Cup exit but will continue playing Test
matches, media reports said Wednesday.


Kumble, India's most successful bowler in both forms of the game,
revealed his retirement to team-mates in Port of Spain soon after
India were knocked out of the tournament last week, the reports
said.


The 36-year-old had already said the World Cup would be his last
one-day assignment before the team departed for the Caribbean in
February.


The leg-spinner had not been an automatic selection in the
shorter game in recent times even though his 547 wickets in 113
Tests and 337 wickets in 271 one-dayers are the most by any
Indian bowler.


Kumble, playing his fourth World Cup, got just one preliminary
game against first-timers Bermuda as spin partner Harbhajan Singh
was preferred for the more important matches against Bangladesh
and Sri Lanka.


India lost both games to record their worst World Cup performance
since the 1979 edition in England when they also won just one
match.


Kumble is best known for taking all 10 wickets in an innings
against Pakistan in New Delhi in 1999, only the second bowler to
achieve the feat after Englishman Jim Laker.


Kumble will return home with the rest of the World Cup squad on
Thursday.


India's next international assignment is a three-week tour of
Bangladesh in May comprising two Tests and three one-day
internationals.

