

Taiwan's parliamentary speaker Wang Jin-pyng, a prospective
presidential candidate who favours improved ties with Beijing, on
Wednesday voiced his strong desire to visit China.


His remarks came amid newspaper reports that Wang, a political
heavyweight from the leading opposition Kuomintang (KMT), may
meet Chinese President Hu Jintao during an "ice-breaking" trip to
the Chinese mainland in April.


Wang did not confirm the reports but made clear his desire to
visit China.


"I've been trying (to visit) for around five or six years. I hope
this can be realised as soon as possible," he told reporters.


"The time is not yet ripe and I can't say too much at this moment
as the date of the visit and topics to be discussed have yet to
be finalised," Wang said.


"I would like to do anything that may be good for Taiwan," he
said.


Reports said Wang had been authorised by President Chen Shui-bian
to negotiate with Beijing on issues such as chartered cargo
flights and banking business.


Local newspapers said Beijing would extend the same warm welcome
to Wang as it did to the island's former KMT chairman Lien Chan
who met Hu during his landmark visit in 2005.


He was the first KMT leader to visit China since the party fled
the mainland after being defeated by Mao Zedong's communists in
1949.


They issued a statement agreeing to push for cross-strait talks
and seek closer ties in trade, tourism and other areas.


But the improved ties failed to materialise. Instead, President
Chen has stepped up his pro-independence campaign in what the
opposition calls a tactic to divert public attention away from
the corruption scandals dogging him and his family.


The KMT lost its 51-year grip on power in 2000 when Chen beat
Lien to win the presidency, winning re-election in 2004.


China still regards Taiwan as part of its territory awaiting
reunification, by force if necessary, despite their split after
the civil war.

