

Beverly Hills installed Tuesday an Iranian-born businessman as
the celebrity enclave's new mayor, reportedly making him the
highest-ranking Iranian-American elected official in the United
States.


Jimmy Delshad, 67, who immigrated to the United States 48 years
ago, was installed in the post amid heightened US-Iranian
tensions, but the international row was not an issue in the
campaign.


Delshad described his elevation to mayor as "very, very
exciting."


"I have great plans and I'm looking forward to put my plans into
effect," he said.


He was re-elected to the five-member city council on March 6
after claiming 2,579 votes in the 35,000-strong celebrity
enclave, home to around 8,000 Iranians, many of whom arrived
after the 1979 Islamic revolution.


Delshad won one of two places up for grabs in the election,
securing a second four-year term on the council, which annually
rotates the largely ceremonial mayor's position among its five
members.


The incumbent, Steve Webb, finished behind Delshad and had to
cede the position to the businessman.


The Washington-based National Iranian American Council had said
Delshad would become the highest-ranking Iranian-American elected
official in the United States.


Delshad had vowed during the campaign to make Beverly Hills "the
safest and smartest city in America," with "smart cameras" to
monitor parking lots and schools, "smart traffic lights" to
reduce traffic jams, and wireless Internet access throughout the
city west of Los Angeles.


A minor controversy emerged during the election when ballot
papers were printed in English and Farsi, drawing about 300
complaint calls and 100 emails to City Hall.


Delshad had voiced disapproval at the bi-lingual ballots, saying
they were unnecessary.


Born in Shiraz, Iran, Delshad is a prominent member of Los
Angeles' community of Iranian Jews, estimated at around 30,000,
which saw a large influx following the toppling of the Shah in
Tehran 28 years ago.

