

Japanese share prices closed down 0.64 percent on Wednesday,
losing early gains on concern over the latest weak US data and a
stronger yen, which hurts exporters, dealers said.


They said there was also concern about choppy trade on the
Shanghai market, whose fall a month ago triggered turmoil on
global markets, and rising oil prices caused by tension over
Iran.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
fell 110.32 points to 17,254.73, extending losses for a second
straight session.


The TOPIX index of all issues on the Tokyo Stock Exchange's first
section eased 12.80 points or 0.74 percent to 1,711.06.


Declining shares outnumbered gainers 967 to 604, with 149 issues
flat.


Volume rose to 2.24 billion shares from 1.88 billion Tuesday.


The market initially gained in the morning session, with
investors bucking a weak lead from Wall Street on a technical
rebound from Tokyo's losses the previous day.


But dealers said many investors eventually decided to stay on the
sidelines ahead of congressional testimony later in the day by
Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke, who will offer further
clues on the direction of the US economy.


Trade was also quiet because of the closing of books for the
fiscal year on Saturday.


"The market has become quieter because this is the end of the
fiscal year," said Shunichi Imeda, senior market analyst at Tokai
Tokyo Research Center.


"Trading activities were subdued because participants are waiting
for the congressional testimony by Fed Chairman Bernanke," he
said.


"The market needs fresh news, new leads, or a new theme in order
to find its new direction. It is only hovering in a range, just
above the 17,000 but just below the 17,500 yen," Umeda said.


Automakers were broadly down on the higher yen.


Toyota shed 110 yen or 1.42 percent at 7,620, Nissan was down 23
yen or 1.77 percent at 1,274, Honda fell 100 yen or 2.38 percent
to 4,100 and Mazda slumped 17 yen or 2.59 percent to 640.


Among other exporters, Sony fell 130 yen or 2.09 percent to
6,080, although Hitachi rose 7 yen or 0.78 percent to 910.


Sanyo Electric inched up 3 yen or 1.63 percent to 187 on reports
-- confirmed after the closing bell -- that its founding family
will exit management amid poor earnings.


Oil-related stocks were among leading gainers on the back of
higher prices for crude oil. Showa Shell Sekiyu rose 25 yen or
1.78 percent to 1,426.

