

Rafael Nadal, who says he has been playing with an injured foot,
will not compete for Spain in their Davis Cup quarter-final tie
against the United States from April 6-8.


"I am very disappointed about not being able to play Davis Cup,"
Nadal said Tuesday after easily beating Juan Martin Del Potro
6-0, 6-4 at the ATP Miami Master Series tournament. "I feel like
I am playing really well, especially in the last month I am
playing my best tennis."


Team captain Emilio Sanchez-Vicario, currently in Florida to
observe the form of the Spanish players competing at the Miami
tournament, has opted for David Ferrer, Tommy Robredo, Fernando
Verdasco and Feliciano Lopez.


Nadal, who won his first title since the French Open last June at
Indian Wells last week, has been playing some of his best tennis
in recent weeks but says the foot doesn't feel right.


"Although I am playing well, I'm playing with some pain in my
foot," Nadal said Tuesday. "I have to rest right now because I
feel pain. I was disappointed that I can't play Davis Cup.


"But I was speaking with the captain and I don't feel 100
percent. We both prefer I not be on the team because they have a
lot of good players. And if they feel better than me, they can
win without me."


It will be eighth meeting between Spain and the USA and will take
place at Winston-Salem, North Carolina. The Americans lead 4-3 in
previous meetings.


Spain won their last encounter at the 2004 Davis Cup final in
Seville which was played on front of 27,000 spectators - the
biggest record crowd in an official tennis match. It was the
second Davis Cup trophy for the Spanish.

