

South Korea on Wednesday shipped medicine and equipment worth
about 280 million won (280,000 dollars) to help North Korea fight
an outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease, the unification ministry
said.


It was the third time in a week that Seoul has announced or
dispatched aid to its impoverished neighbour, amid warming
relations.


A fertiliser shipment, the first in a series due to total 300,000
tons by June, was sent Tuesday.


Seoul also decided last week to resume humanitarian aid for flood
victims, including rice, cement, trucks, blankets and iron bars.


Foot-and-mouth has been spreading since it broke out on a farm
near Pyongyang in January and authorities have destroyed hundreds
of cattle and thousands of pigs.


The South suspended its regular annual shipments of 500,000 tons
of rice and 300,000 tons of fertiliser after the North's missile
tests last July. Emergency aid for flood victims was halted at
the same time.


Relations were further chilled by the North's October nuclear
test but improved after it consented during multinational talks
in Beijing last month to shut down its nuclear plants.


Earlier this month the two Koreas resumed high-level bilateral
talks and the South agreed in principle to restart regular annual
rice aid.


North Korea suffered several years of famine which killed
hundreds of thousands of people starting in the mid-1990s. The
World Food Programme said Wednesday the communist state currently
faces a food shortfall of one million tonnes, a fifth of its
needs.

