

Unable to feed millions of its own people, North Korea has made
an abrupt about- face and asked the World Food Programme to
increase its aid, an official with the United Nations agency said
Wednesday.


"They confirmed with the WFP that they are facing a food gap of
one million tonnes in 2007," WFP Asian regional director Tony
Banbury told journalists after a visit to the isolated nation.


"They have asked WFP to expand assistance to meet the gap," he
said.


The shortage amounts to at least 20 percent of North Korea's food
needs, meaning that up to one-third of the nation's 23 million
people will require food assistance until this year's harvest
comes in, he said.


The request signals an abrupt turn-around by the Stalinist
regime, which announced cutbacks to a decade-long WFP food
assistance programme at the end of 2005, after trying to rid
itself entirely of its dependency on the UN agency.


"Right now we are losing the fight against hunger in the DPRK.
The DPRK faces a chronic food security problem," Banbury said,
referring to North Korea by its official acronym.


The WFP is currently engaged in a two-year assistance programme
with North Korea that calls for 150,000 tonnes of food aid for
2006 and 2007. The food is enough to cover three percent of the
nation's population, he said.


WFP and other aid agencies are facing increasing problems raising
donations from the global public due to disenchantment over North
Korea's nuclear and other weapons programmes.


Banbury refused to link North Korea's food needs to the politics
surrounding its nuclear weapons programmes.


"Our support is not to the DPRK government, it is to the DPRK
people," Banbury said.


In an effort to expand aid to the impoverished nation, WFP has
begun to seek increased aid from donor nations within the
framework of the ongoing two-year aid package, Banbury said.


"If the donors don't respond, millions of people will go hungry,"
he said.

