

Forty-five Iraqi men were shot dead execution-style in the
northern town of Tal Afar in reprisal attacks for two devastating
bombings that killed 75 people, a medic said on Wednesday.


"We received 45 bodies of handcuffed and blindfolded men from al-
Wahada neighbourhood overnight. They were killed yesterday just
after the bomb," a doctor at Tal Afar hospital told AFP on
condition of anonymity.


The Iraqi army has slapped a strict curfew on the town, deployed
armoured vehicles in downtown Tal Afar and banned even police
from moving, an army officer said, also on condition of
anonymity.


The bodies were found in the Sunni area of Wahada after a massive
suicide truck bombing ripped through a Shiite district of the
town on Tuesday, one of two bombings that left a total of 75
people dead.


Lieutenant Colonel Mohammed Ahmed Salah, a spokesman for the
Iraqi army in Mosul, the capital of Nineveh province that is home
to Tal Afar, confirmed that a "reprisal act" had taken place
after the bombings.


"A violent incident happened and a reprisal act happened in al-
Wahada, which is in the south of the town, just after the
bombings," the officer said.


"The situation is under control right now and we have started an
investigation into the incident."


The violence is the deadliest in the mixed Shiite-Sunni Tal Afar
since US President George W. Bush in March 2006 held up the
onetime militant stronghold as a model for coalition efforts to
create a stable Iraq.

