

China and Russia will launch a joint mission to Mars in 2009,
marking a "milestone" in space cooperation between the two
countries, Chinese state media reported Wednesday.


The mission will see a Chinese satellite take off on a Russian
rocket, according to the agreement signed Monday between the
China National Space Administration and the Russian Federal Space
Agency, the China Daily said.


The agreement, signed during an ongoing three-day visit to Russia
by Chinese President Hu Jintao, follows pledges by Moscow in
recent months to work closely with Beijing on exploration of both
Mars and the moon.


The China National Space Administration unveiled the details of
the Mars mission to the nation's state-run press in Beijing on
Tuesday, saying it was a "milestone" in the history of space
cooperation between the neighbours.


According to the agreement, a small satellite developed by China
will be launched along with "Phobos Explorer," a Russian
spacecraft, atop a Russian rocket, probably in October 2009, the
paper reported.


After entering Mars' orbit, 10 to 11 months later, the Chinese
satellite will be detached from the spacecraft and probe the
Martian space environment, it said.


The "Phobos Explorer," carrying equipment partly developed by the
Hong Kong Polytechnic University, will land on Phobos, a Martian
moon, and return to Earth with soil samples, according to the
paper.


The paper said the mission, which has previously been outlined in
the Chinese media, was of scientific value, as it would yield
information on the origins of the solar system and Earth.


China has said it hopes to launch a lunar exploration satellite
some time this year as part of a programme that aims to place an
unmanned vehicle on the moon by 2012.


In 2003 it successfully launched astronaut Yang Liwei into orbit,
becoming the third country after the former Soviet Union and the
United States to put a man in space.

