

Britain's advertising watchdog on Wednesday ordered Tourism
Australia to pull down its posters promoting the country in an
"irreverent" Australian fashion because they contain mild
swearing.


The Advertising Standards Authority (ASA) told the tourism agency
to remove the lot and not to use swear words again in future
posters.


Tourism Australia's year-long campaign, which features a bikini-
clad model on a beach asking "So where the bloody hell are you?",
has run into trouble in Britain and Canada and stirred up a
rousing defence from Sydney.


The ASA said the posters breached the industry code relating to
responsibility and children.


"We considered that parents were entitled to expect that poster
advertising should not appear to endorse or encourage swearing,"
the watchdog said.


Tourism Australia said it was not out to cause offence and
regretted that any was taken.


Their campaign targeted an older audience who would understand
the "irreverent" Australian humour, they said, explaining that it
was intended to extend a hospitable welcome in a "uniquely
Australian manner."


The parallel television campaign last year also got into hot
water.


British television regulators initially banned the ads on the
grounds that "bloody" was an unacceptable swear word, and use of
the word "hell" caused problems in Canada.


The Canadian Broadcasting Corporation banned the ad during two
family viewing time slots.


Britain's ASA received complaints that the advert was offensive
and inappropriate but eventually ruled that it was a light-
hearted play on Aussie informality and did not breach the code on
decency.


The British ban sparked a storm of ridicule and criticism in
Australia, which dispatched Tourism Minister Fran Bailey to
London to defend the ad campaign and poke fun at the British for
losing their "sense of humour".

