

A Chinese activist who spent nearly a decade protesting against a
polluting uranium mine has been admitted to a Beijing hospital
with a life-threatening tumour, a rights group said Wednesday.


Officials in China's Gansu province have allowed Sun Xiaodi to
seek treatment in Beijing but his family fears they do not have
enough money to pay for medical costs, the New York-based Human
Rights in China (HRIC) said.


Sun has spent nearly a decade petitioning the central authorities
over radioactive contamination from a uranium mine in the Gannan
prefecture of Gansu, the rights group said in a statement.


Residents in the prefecture suffer an unusually high rate of
cancer and other health conditions associated with radioactive
contamination, it said.


Sun was diagnosed with a tumour in his abdomen in November last
year but local officials at first refused to allow him to seek
treatment in the capital, it said.


Surgery to remove the tumour could cost up to 120,000 yuan
(15,000 dollars), money that Sun does not have, the group said.


Since beginning protests about the mine in 1998, Sun has been
fired from his job, harassed by local officials and jailed for
his activities.


He won the Nuclear-Free Future Award from the Indigenous World
Uranium Summit in December last year, but since has faced even
more harassment, including vandalism of his home and constant
police surveillance, the group said.


"HRIC condemns the harassment of environmental activist Sun
Xiaodi and his family, and the failure of local authorities to
protect them," the rights group said.


"HRIC urges the central government to protect Sun's right to
petition and access to necessary medical treatment."


Neither Sun nor his family were immediately available for
comment.

