

Australian share prices closed 0.69 percent lower Wednesday, with
investors cautious amid concerns over Iran and the US economy
after another set of weak US figures, dealers said.


They said the tone was cautious ahead of testimony later
Wednesday by US Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke, with
investors wanting some reassurance on the economic and interest
rate outlook given growing problems in the US housing market.


The benchmark SP/ASX 200 index dropped sharply after lunch but
rose later in the afternoon session to finish with a loss for the
day of 41.0 points at 5,923.2. The broader All Ordinaries index
fell 39.0 points to 5,913.3.


Turnover was 1.62 billion shares worth 6.09 billion dollars (4.90
billion US), with falls outnumbering rises 693 to 504 and 356
stocks unchanged.


Reynolds and Co private client advisor Michael Heffernan said
morning gains were erased by increasing nervousness over rising
tensions in the Middle East.


The market reacted to the uncertainty surrounding the mounting
crisis over the seizure of British sailors by Iran even though US
officials dismissed talk of military action, he said.


"Whether these rumours have any substance remains to be seen but
the market definitely took a more cautious stance in afternoon
trading," Heffernan said.


All major banks lost ground ahead of next week's meeting of the
central Reserve Bank of Australia amid growing speculation there
will be another hike in interest rates.


National Australia Bank lost 0.33 dollars to 40.12 dollars,
Commonwealth Bank dropped 0.35 to 49.90, ANZ shed 0.24 to 29.34
and Westpac slipped 0.12 to 25.89. Investment bank Macquarie Bank
fell 0.29 to 81.66.


Shares in companies exposed to the US building market --
including Rinker and James Hardie -- both fell after more bad
news on the sector. Rinker fell 0.34 to 17.58 and James Hardie
dropped 0.15 to 8.20.


Heavyweight miners BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto were also in
negative territory, dropping 0.31 to 29.49 and 0.90 to 78.30
respectively.


Takeover targets Qantas and Coles Group bucked the trend, both
ending the day higher. Qantas gained 0.04 to 5.19 while retailer
Coles added 0.12 to 16.06.


Telstra slipped 0.01 to 4.51 while rival SingTel gained 0.02 to
2.63.

