

The heads of rival German and Italian energy groups E.ON and Enel
are seeking to defuse their bitter bidding war for Spanish
electricity supplier Endesa and met last weekend for conciliatory
talks, the business daily Handelsblatt reported on Wednesday.


E.ON chief executive Wulf Bernotat and his counterpart at Enel
Fulvio Conti did not reach any agreement when they met last
weekend, but signalled their readiness to talk again, the
newspaper said, without revealing its sources.


Handelsblatt said that neither company was willing to comment on
the information officially.


The newspaper also quoted sources close to Enel and Spanish
construction group Acciona as saying that the two allies were
examining whether to take legal action against a new deal between
E.ON and Endesa's third-biggest shareholder Caja Madrid, aimed at
allowing the German company to maintain its bid for Endesa.


In a complex arrangement unveiled late Monday, Caja Madrid
announced that it would "lease" the economic rights in its 9.9
percent share in Endesa to E.ON for two years, thus allowing it
to maintain its offer for the company.


The deal was conditional on E.ON maintaining its offer and
accepting the final terms of any bid: in other words, the deal
only worked if E.ON succeeded in its takeover bid.


In return, Caja Madrid wanted a greater say in Endesa's
administration, should the bid succeed. And while it ceded its
economic rights, it retained its voting powers.


That move was in turn a response to Acciona and Enel's attempt to
outbid E.ON's 40-euro-per-share offer for Endesa by at least one
euro.


E.ON, whose bid was worth 43.25 billion euros (57 billion
dollars), promptly accused Acciona and Enel of deception and
insider trading and said it would seek legal injunctions against
them in Madrid and New York.

