

Credit Suisse on Wednesday became the third institutional
investor in as many days to reveal it had taken a significant
shareholding in Australian airline takeover target Qantas.


The Swiss investment bank said it had built a 5.39 percent stake
in Qantas, which is the subject of an 8.9 billion US dollar
takeover bid from a private quity consortium.


It comes after Deutsche Bank said Tuesday it had purchased an 8.4
percent stake in the airline and UBS informed the market late
Monday that it had increased its shareholding from 8.94 to 10.4
percent.


The private equity consortium bidding for Qantas needs
shareholders holding at least 90 percent of the stock to accept
its 5.45 Australian dollars (4.39 US dollars) a share offer for
Australia's iconic Flying Kangaroo.


One institutional investor, Balanced Equity Management, has
already said it will use its 4.0 percent holding to vote against
the deal and UBS reportedly wants a higher offer, raising doubts
about whether the takeover will go ahead.


The news of Credit Suisse's shareholding comes after a report
that the private equity consortium behind the bid, Airline
Partners Australia (APA), is negotiating with its financiers to
drop the 90 percent takeover threshold.


The Australian Financial Review, without citing sources, said APA
was hoping to acquire Qantas through a scheme of arrangement,
which requires court approval and 75 percent shareholder support
to go through.


But the newspaper said the Qantas board, which has backed the
current proposal, would oppose the move, transforming the deal
into a hostile takeover battle.


APA offered no update Wednesay on figures released Friday that
owners of 29 percent of Qantas shares had accepted its offer.

