

Police in Indonesia are closing in on the suspected militant
thought to lead an Al-Qaeda-linked terror group blamed for
several bloody attacks, a spokesman said Wednesday.


Abu Dujana, who is believed to head regional terror group Jemaah
Islamiyah (JI), is in Indonesia and could be detained soon,
police spokesman Sisno Adiwinoto said.


"He is still in the country according to intelligence that we
have obtained, and we should be able to arrest him in the near
future," the spokesman said.


Dujana is among Indonesia's 10 most wanted people and said to be
a close associate of the man who heads that list, Malaysian
Noordin Mohammad Top, another suspected JI militant.


Noordin is also in Indonesia and his movements "have been
limited," the spokesman said, without elaborating.


JI has been blamed for a string of attacks, including the
bombings on the resort island of Bali in 2002 and 2005 that
killed more than 200 people.


Indonesian anti-terror police shot dead one suspected JI militant
and arrested seven others in the past few days, Adiwinoto said.
The arrests led to raids that uncovered hidden arsenals of guns,
ammunition and explosives.


The finds included 20 bombs, he said, adding the authorities knew
where they would have been used and had prevented potential
atrocities.


Indonesia's police Detachment 88, a US-trained unit, has killed
or arrested more than 200 JI members, according to Singapore-
based terrorism expert Rohan Gunaratna.  He has described JI as
"the main threat group in Southeast Asia."


Apart from the Bali bombings, JI has also been accused of roles
in the August 2003 Marriott Hotel and September 2004 Australian
embassy attacks in Jakarta.


The United States says the group aims to establish a pan-Islamic
state in Southeast Asia through violent jihad.

