

Nine Zimbabwean opposition activists who were abducted from
hospital and re- arrested over the weekend were denied bail
Monday, their lawyer said.


The opposition members who were hospitalised on Saturday for
injuries suffered after a police crackdown last week, would
remain in prison while their lawyer sought an appeal in the High
Court on Tuesday or Wednesday.


"The magistrate gave us several reasons and one of them which we
disagreed with was that he demanded that the officer in charge
who took my clients from the hospital be brought to court
tomorrow [Tuesday]," said lawyer Alec Muchadehama .


He said this would take too long as the officer could not be
tracked down.


The men were apparently taken from their hospital beds by state
security agents, "without any hospital discharge cards or
anything to say they have been released."


Several MDC officials and supporters were arrested last week in
what police said was a clampdown on fire bombers accused of a
series of attacks across the southern African country.


President Robert Mugabe's crackdown on the opposition, including
MDC leader Morgan Tsvangirai, has continued, with the 83-year-old
openly acknowledging his security forces had assaulted the MDC
members.


The UN warned Monday that police and soldiers in Zimbabwe who
obey orders to shoot demonstrators could face prosecution for
crimes against humanity


UN Special Rapporteur on extrajudicial or summary executions,
Philip Alston said military or police officers were only legally
entitled to kill in self-defence or to defend another person's
life.

