

Football legend Diego Maradona is suffering from hepatitis
brought on by excessive alcohol consumption, his personal doctor
said on Monday.


The diagnosis requires that the former Argentine captain spend
two weeks in bed, Alfredo Cahe added.


"The hospitalisation will not last less than two weeks," Cahe
told the Mitre radio station.


"The acute type of hepatitis he has now is a case brought on by
alcoholism," the doctor said.


On Sunday, Cahe and hospital director Hector Pezzella announced
that routine examinations had shown a "favourable evolution
compared to the previous days".


But Cahe said Monday: "He was suffering from a mix of many things
and now it is definitely a case of hepatitis.


"At first, I feared it was pancreatitis. I was constantly
checking Diego and I think that this time we've nailed it."


Maradona, 46, has been called one of the greatest players of the
last century but his career on and off the pitch has been marred
by repeated drug and alcohol abuse. He retired from professional
football in 1997.


He has suffered from chronic hepatitis since he contracted
hepatitis B in 1991, while he played for Barcelona.


Maradona, who suffered a heart attack in 2004 following a cocaine
overdose, was rushed to the hospital from his parents' house late
Wednesday with unknown symptoms.


Days earlier Cahe had said the former Boca Juniors, Barcelona and
Napoli star might leave for Switzerland for treatment after his
weight had again ballooned.


Newspaper photographs early this month appeared to show he had
regained many of the 50 kilograms (110 pounds) lost after he had
gastric bypass surgery in 2005.


Another showed him in a Buenos Aires nightclub with an injured
nose after falling off a chair.


He had also been in the news after Argentina's central bank said
it had begun collecting information about Maradona's bank
accounts, suggesting the football great was under investigation
for tax evasion.

