

Bayern Munich coach Ottmar Hitzfeld said on Monday that shackling
AC Milan's Brazilian midfielder Kaka would be the key to success
in their Champions League quarter-final against the Italian
giants.


Bayern face the six-time European champions at the San Siro on
Tuesday before hosting the second leg in Munich on April 11.


Hitzfeld, who has revitalised Bayern since his return as coach in
February following the sacking of Felix Magath, also made no
secret of the fact he would one day like to sign Kaka.


"Kaka is one of the best midfielders in the world," Hitzfeld
said.


"We will try and stop him tomorrow, but that is easier said than
done. Then maybe one day in the future we will buy him."


Bayern have a score to settle with AC Milan after their
elimination at the hands of the Italian side in the first
knockout round of last season's competition.


But Hitzfeld insisted revenge was not his motivation for winning
the tie.


"I don't think about the negative results of the past, I'm just
looking at the present," he said.


AC Milan captain Paolo Maldini insisted his side were capable of
going all the way in the competition, despite struggling to shake
off Scottish Premier League side in the previous round.


"It might seem like a miracle for us to win the trophy, but I
base that prediction on results," he said.


"Barcelona and Inter Milan, two of the strongest teams, are out,
and we have always done well in the Champions League."


European champions on four occasions, Bayern will be without
goalkeeper and captain Oliver Kahn and midfielder Mark van Bommel
for the first leg due to suspensions.


Despite the loss of two of their most influential players, morale
is high in the Bayern camp after Saturday's 2-0 win over
Bundesliga leaders Schalke 04 which left them six points off the
summit.

