

Republican front-runner Rudolph Giuliani has piled 15 million
dollars into his White House campaign account so far this year,
his campaign said Monday, in a key indicator of the emerging 2008
race.


The former New York mayor, who shot to prominence after
shepherding his city through the horror of the September 11
attacks in 2001, was the first top Republican to declare his take
after a fundraising deadline on Saturday.


"We are thrilled by the response to Mayor Giuliani's optimistic
vision, experienced leadership and proven record of results,"
Giuliani's campaign manager Mike DuHaime said in a statement.


"Considering our late start, we are very pleased by the pace
raised in March and see it as a positive indication of what's to
come."


The Republican favorite's war chest now amounted to almost 17
million dollars, including money raised at an event in December,
and the campaign had brought in 10 million dollars in March
alone, DuHaine said.


Democratic pacesetter Hillary Clinton obliterated fundraising
records by racking up a staggering 26 million dollars in the
first quarter, and stashed another 10 million dollars from her
Senate account into her 2008 war chest.


The huge early fundraising hauls were an indicator of the
competitive nature of the race, nearly 10 months before the first
ballots are cast in party nominating contests.


The 2008 election is tipped by experts to be the most expensive
presidential poll on record, with some estimates reaching one
billion dollars.


Giuliani's rivals for the Republican nomination, former
Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney and Senator John McCain, were
expected to unveil their first-quarter fundraising takes in the
coming week.

