

A big US-South Korea free trade agreement is unlikely to be
ratified by Washington unless Seoul ends a ban imposed on US beef
over fears of mad cow disease, a US official and key lawmaker
said Monday.


While the ban on beef is not officially part of the free-trade
agreement (FTA) clinched over the weekend after 10 months of
negotiations, both sides acknowledge that US lawmakers would
block any deal unless the issue is resolved, Deputy US Trade
Representative Karan Bhatia said.


"I don't think the Congress will approve an FTA with Korea
without the full reopening of Korean beef market," Bhatia told
reporters on a conference call from Seoul.


"We have made that very clear to Korea and they understand that."


Before a 2003 import ban imposed over fears of mad cow disease,
South Korea bought 850 million dollars' worth of US beef a year.


Seoul last year agreed to accept US boneless beef but rejected
three shipments after discovering tiny bone fragments.


Korean officials said in Seoul they verbally promised to
"positively consider" US demands on beef after the International
Organization for Animal Health reviews mad cow risks in the US.


In addition, Seoul will phase out its 40 percent tariff on beef
over 15 years. Tariffs on pork will go over 10 years.


Senate Finance Committee Chairman Max Baucus said the negotiators
in Seoul made only "vague promises to resolve this issue at some
point in the future" and added that he would block the trade
agreement until the South Korean market is reopened.


"I will oppose the Korea Free Trade Agreement, and in fact I will
not allow it to move through the Senate, unless and until Korea
completely lifts its ban on US beef," Baucus said in a statement.


"I have made it clear -- to the administration and to the Korean
government -- from the start of these talks that there can be no
trade agreement without full access to the Korean market for all
of Montana's beef exports, boneless and bone-in, and regardless
of age."

