

US shares struggled to hold opening gains Monday as enthusiasm
over two big takeover deals was offset by a weaker-than-expected
report on the US manufacturing sector.


At 1555 GMT, the Dow Jones Industrial Average was essentially
flat, up a fractional 0.32 points at 12,354.67 after alternating
between small gains and losses over the morning.


The Nasdaq composite fell 6.80 points (0.28 percent) to 2,414.84
while the broad-market Standard and Poor's 500 index rose a
fractional 0.18 point (0.01 percent) to 1,421.04.


Sentiment was helped by two big private equity transactions
announced ahead of the market opening.


Private equity giant Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. agreed to
buy credit-card and payments processor First Data in a deal worth
29 billion dollars. Also, billionaire Sam Zell will buy media
giant Tribune Co. and take the company private in a 13-billion-
dollar deal.


Fred Dickson at DA Davidson said there was reason for cautious
optimism.


"We enter the second quarter with a continuing sense of
cautiousness toward the economy, the geopolitical situation in
the Middle East and slowing corporate profit growth," he said.


"The good news is that overall liquidity remains high and the
level of takeover activity remains strong, providing a halo
effect over the entire market."


But the early enthusiasm was tempered by a survey on the US
manufacturing sector by the Institute of Supply Management.


The ISM said its index of national industrial activity dipped to
50.9 percent from 52.3 percent in February, suggesting slower
growth in the sector. The price index surged meanwhile to 66.5
percent from 59 percent, suggesting increased price pressures for
some commodities.


The report "underlines the dilemma" for the Federal Reserve that
"inflation is rising while growth is weakening," said Nariman
Behravesh, chief economist at Global Insight.


This means a cut in interest rates hoped for by equity investors
may not materialize, the economist added.


Among stocks in focus, First Data surged 5.60 dollars or 21
percent to 32.50 after it announced the private equity buyout,
the fourth largest deal of its kind.


Tribune Co. climbed 85 cents to 32.96 after it announced the deal
after months of bidding.


Xerox added 11 cents to 17.00 dollars after announcing plans to
acquire for 1.5 billion dollars rival Global Imaging Systems,
which surged 9.14 dollars or 47 percent to 28.64.


Apple increased 66 cents to 93.57 after the computer giant and
maker of the iPod announced a deal with British music giant EMI
to include its vast music catalogue, including pop stars Coldplay
and Madonna, for download on the Apple iTunes system without copy
protection.


Bonds firmed. The yield on the 10-year US Treasury bond dropped
to 4.638 percent from 4.648 percent Friday while that on the
30-year bond fell to 4.832 percent against 4.848 percent. Bond
yields and prices move in opposite directions.

