

The family of one of the 15 Britons held by Iran said Monday they
were enduring a daily "nightmare" that has left them on the brink
of despair.


Captain Chris Air, 25, is one of the Royal Navy and Royal Marines
personnel seized at gunpoint in the northern Gulf by
Revolutionary Guards on March 23, triggering an international
stand-off between Britain and Iran.


He appeared in footage broadcast on Iranian television Sunday,
pointing at a map of the area, saying it apparently showed they
had strayed into Iranian territorial waters.


"Each morning as this nightmare continues we are confronted with
the awful reality that the situation is at present unresolved,"
the officer's parents and his two younger brothers said in a
statement.


"It presents us with a battle within our minds as we try to
remain positive, yet are frequently confronted with reports from
Iran which can so easily dash our fragile hopes and leave us
feeling close to despair."


The family said the pictures had brought them "some comfort",
although they stressed their belief that Iran was committing a
"wrong action".


"It was reassuring to see him alive and physically fit, although
looking tired. We also felt incredibly proud of him as he
presented himself with calmness and professionalism under what
must have been huge pressure," they said.


"As a Royal Marine officer, he is trained to undergo a degree of
hardship and we trust that this training, his concern for the men
in his care, and the faith which he personally holds will all
help him endure to the end of this awful time.


"We are trusting and believing that God will bring Chris and all
the personnel back home safely and that each day that passes is a
day closer to that wonderful time."


So far, Tehran has given no firm indication of when the sailors
might be released.

