

Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenko on Monday ordered the
dissolution of parliament and fresh elections, as thousands of
protesters vowed to defy his decision.


"Today I signed the decree interrupting the parliament's powers
before term," Yushchenko said in a televised speech, adding that
"this is not only my right, it is my duty."


According to the decree, new parliamentary elections were due to
be held May 27.


The dissolution will be effective once the decree is published in
the official newspaper, a member of the central electoral
committee, Andrei Maguera, told AFP.


Yushchenko had earlier accused lawmakers from the ruling pro-
Russia majority of trying to "usurp power" in this former Soviet
republic and bolster its ranks in an "unconstitutional" way of
persuading parliament members to change sides.


Thousands of supporters of the governing coalition rallied in
Kiev and set up a tent camp for round-the-clock protests in
scenes reminiscent of the 2004 "orange revolution" that brought
Yushchenko to power.


The crisis comes after months of mounting tension between
Yushchenko, a strongly pro-West politician, and the coalition
formed after March 2006 parliamentary elections in which Prime
Minister Viktor Yanukovych, the head of the Regions party and
Yushchenko's arch-rival in the "orange revolution," won a
crushing victory.


The coalition currently controls 250 of the 450 seats in
parliament, and with 50 more could change the constitution to
further weaken the president.


Yushchenko's opponents, emboldened by constitutional reforms last
year that curbed his powers, said the president's threat to call
early elections was unconstitutional.

