

Zimbabwean police have asked a special police branch to maintain
order during Tuesday's two-day general strike called by the
country's main labour body, a spokesman said.


"The National Reaction Force which has been activated will be
deployed in all problem areas to ensure that there is law and
order during this illegal stayaway," police spokesman Wayne
Bvudzijena said in a statement.


The special task force deals with "emergency situations" and
includes a military component as well as police.


Bvudzijena said the Zimbabwe Republic Police would ensure there
was peace, safety and security during the strike.


"The organisation is therefore determined to ensure that peace
prevails during the so-called mass stayaway called by the
Zimbabwe Congress of Trade Unions (ZCTU) tomorrow (Tuesday)."


He said commuters, business and industry would be protected
through strategic deployments at bus boarding points, shopping
centres and industrial areas.


There would also be increased roadblocks. He urged people to
cooperate with officers on patrol or manning the roadlocks.


On Friday the ZCTU said the decision to embark on a general
shutdown on Tuesday and Wednesday was taken after the
government's failure to respond to concerns about the worsening
economic crisis in a country where 80 percent of people are
jobless and inflation stands at 1,730 percent.


Labour officials said government must take steps to address the
economic meltdown adding that authorities had failed to resolve
workers demands for a minimum wage.


The ZCTU wants the government to review the minimum wage to one
million (4,000 US dollars) Zimbabwe dollars a month up from
90,000 Zimbabwe dollars.

