

A controversial Russian general linked to atrocities in Chechnya
said Monday that his meeting with US President George W. Bush was
organised by the White House and caught him by surprise.


"The itinerary of my visit (to the United States) did not include
a meeting with the American president and the invitation to the
White House was a surprise," Vladimir Chamanov told the Interfax
news agency.


The general said his trip was connected to his work with a Russo-
American commission on the return of prisoners of war and missing
soldiers.


His visit to the White House on March 27 lasted 10 to 15 minutes
and "George Bush said he was satisfied with our commission's
work", Chamanov said, adding that Iraq and Chechnya were not
mentioned.


He said the uproar about the meeting was "proof that some people
don't want to recognise Russia's success in fighting
international terrorism in Chechnya... and its continuing efforts
to stabilise the northern Caucasus."


The White House has since admitted that Bush would have been
"unlikely" to sit down with Chamanov if he had known about
allegations tying the general to the massacre of Chechen
civilians.


Human Rights Watch noted the general was "implicated in serious
human rights violations, including the murder of civilians in the
villages of Alkhan-Yurt in 1999 and Katyr-Yurt in 2000... and the
torture of prisoners in 2000."


In Alkhan-Yurt, southwest of Grozny, Chamanov's troops killed 42
people in December 1999, according to witness statements taken by
AFP at the time.

