

Zimbabwe, wracked by years of political and economic woes, was
Africa's worst economic performer in 2006, while Mauritania was
best, thanks to oil exports, according to a UN study Tuesday.


The troubled southern Africa nation of Zimbabwe registered a
negative 4.4 percent growth rate, ranking it the lowest
performing economy, the UN's Economic Commission for Africa said
in a report published in Addis Ababa.


"Economic performance in Zimbabwe remained negative ... owing
mainly to political difficulties exacerbated by recurrent
droughts," the report said.


Zimbabwe's inflation rate is now the highest in the world at
1,730 percent and forecast by the International Monetary Fund to
climb to 4,000 percent by year end. Four out of five people are
out of work and live in abject poverty.


On the other hand, high oil export prices helped Mauritania reach
the study's top position with 19.4 percent growth.


Angola placed second, with 17.6 percent, while mineral exports
helped Mozambique reach third place at 7.9 percent.


At the bottom of the ladder apart from Zimbabwe, the Comoros,
Ivory Coast, the Seychelles and Swaziland exhibited the most
dismal economic growth rates in Africa.


The report projected a 5.8 percent growth rate on the continent
this year, a slight improvement from last year's 5.6 percent due
to growing global demand for commodities such as oil, minerals
and agricultural products.


But the spread of HIV/AIDS, lack of diversity in exports and
unpredictable weather, as well as inefficient public
infrastructures and unreliable energy supplies could hinder the
projected growth, it added.

