

Europe's main stock markets closed mixed on Monday, with losses
in London in contrast to positive trading in Paris and Frankfurt.


The London FTSE 100 index showed a loss of 0.14 percent at
6,315.5 points at the close, while in Paris the CAC 40 gained
0.20 percent to 5,645.56 points and in Frankfurt the Dax added
0.29 percent to 6,937.17 points.


The DJ Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone blue chip shares increased
0.20 percent to 4,189.55 points.


The euro stood at 1.3375 dollars.


Trading was affected by new takeover activity in the European
telecoms sector and a weaker-than-expected survey of US
manufacturing activity.


US shares struggled to hold opening gains Monday as enthusiasm
over two big takeover deals by private equity groups was offset
by the US manufacturing report.


At 1555 GMT, the Dow Jones Industrial Average was flat, up a
fractional 0.32 points at 12,354.67 after alternating between
small gains and losses over the morning.


The Nasdaq composite fell 0.28 percent to 2,414.84 while the
broad-market Standard and Poor's 500 index rose a fractional 0.01
percent to 1,421.04.


The Institute of Supply Management said that growth cooled in
March in the US factory sector in line with slower overall
economic activity.


The ISM said its index of national industrial activity dipped to
50.9 percent from 52.3 percent in February.


In Europe, shares in Telecom Italia and its principle shareholder
Pirelli shot up on news of a bid from the US telecommunications
operator ATT and Mexican counterpart America Movil.


Pirelli shares gained 9.40 percent to 0.90 euros and Telecom
Italia surged 9.5 percent to 2.34 euros in a market that gained
0.52 percent overall.


ATT, America Movil and Pirelli are in exclusive talks for the
purchase of two thirds of the Italian group's shareholding in
Telecom Italia, Pirelli said.


A deal would be worth 2.7 billion euros (3.6 billion euros) to
the Italian tyre, cable and real estate group, but it quickly
sparked opposition among some Italian politicians.


Other telecoms benefited, with BT Group up 2.06 percent to 310
pence in London, France Telecom rising 1.89 percent to 20.14
euros in Paris, and Deutsche Telekom 2.34 percent higher at 12.67
euros in Frankfurt.


Shares in Italian airline Alitalia closed up 5.3 percent at 0.99
euros after Russian airline Aeroflot emerged as a surprise
candidate to buy the Italian government's stake in the loss-
making carrier.


The Italian economy ministry said the Russian group, in
partnership with Italian bank Unicredito Italiano, was one of
three bidders who had come forward at the second stage of the
privatisation process.


In earlier Asia trade, Tokyo's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
closed down 1.50 percent to 17,028.41 points, as investors
remained nervous about the outlook for the US economy, dealers
said.


Hong Kong's key Hang Seng Index ended flat at 19,809.70.


Elsewhere in Europe, in Amsterdam the AEX gained 0.30 percent to
512.02 points, in Brussels the Bel 20 added 0.13 percent to
4,485.69 points, in Madrid the Ibex 35 rose 0.61 percent to
14,730.8 points and in Milan the SP/Mib index increased 0.52
percent to 41.990 points.


The Swiss SMI index fell 0.23 percent to 8,956.31 points,

