

The northern German town of Bad Doberan on Monday stripped Adolf
Hitler of his honorary citizenship just over two months before
hosting the next G8 summit, the mayor said.


"We revoked his honorary citizenship. It was done unanimously and
with immediate effect," mayor Hartmut Polzin told AFP after a
meeting of the town council.


Polzin said the decision was a political gesture ahead of the
summit, since he believed that by law the honour had fallen away
on the late Nazi dictator's death. Hitler committed suicide on
April 30, 1945.


"He is dead, therefore it is a political formality."


Bad Doberan counts as one of its districts the Baltic Sea resort
of Heiligendamm, where Chancellor Angela Merkel will host her
fellow leaders of the G8 club of wealthy nations for a summit on
June 6-8.


It used to be part of communist East Germany and is one of
several thousand German towns and cities that awarded the Fuehrer
the honour during Nazi times.


But unlike most of the roughly 4,000 others, it failed to revoke
his honorary citizenship after 1945.


German legal experts are at odds over whether such a step is
necessary. Many agree with Polzin that honorary citizenship
expires on the holder's death.


Some German town councils took longer than others to strike
Hitler off the roll. Duesseldorf, the capital of Germany's most
populous state, for example, only did so in 2000.


Aschersleben in the eastern state of Saxony-Anhalt waited until
last year to strip Hitler of his honorary citizenship.


Ruediger Schulz from the local council in Aschersleben said East
Germans had a different perspective on the Nazi era.


"In East Germany the communist cityfathers saw themselves as
entirely divorced from what the Nazi regime did. So they did not
see any need to take such a measure," he told Stern magazine.

