

German energy group E.ON said on Monday that it had abandoned its
takeover bid for Spanish power company Endesa, but planned to buy
assets from the group worth about 10 billion euros (13 billion
dollars).


The decision marks the end of a more than year-long battle by the
German group to win control of Endesa and opens the way for a
takeover of the utility by its biggest shareholders, Spanish
construction group Acciona and its Italian partner Enel.


E.ON said that it had agreed with Enel and Acciona that if they
gained control of Endesa, E.ON would receive a "significant
portfolio" of assets in France, Italy, Spain, Poland and Turkey
worth about 10 million euros.


In Madrid, Acciona said that a joint takeover bid for Endesa
would be launched with Enel "very soon."


Last week, the Spanish market regulator had ruled that the two
firms, which control 46 percent of Endesa, should wait six months
from the end of the acceptance period for E.ON's bid before
launching their own bid.


E.ON's 42-billion-euro bid, which was widely expected to fail,
was set to expire on Tuesday.


"Today, E.ON signed an agreement with Enel and Acciona in order
to put an end to the substantial uncertainty surrounding the
takeover bid for Endesa," E.ON said in a statement.


"Therefore, E.ON will not carry out the takeover bid designed to
acquire a majority stake in Endesa."


E.ON has raised the value of its initial offer for Endesa, made
in February last year, three times.


The German group's efforts have been resisted by the Spanish
government, which initially favoured a rival bid for Endesa from
Spanish utility Gas Natural.


Under the deal struck with Acciona and Enel, E.ON will acquire
the power utility Viesgo from Enel in Spain, as well as
additional generation capacity from Endesa.


It will make E.ON the fourth-biggest energy group in Spain with a
market share of over 10 percent.


In Italy, the company said it would acquire Endesa Italia and
become the fourth- biggest power producer in the country.


In France, it is expecting to become the third-biggest player in
the electricity generation sector through the acquisition of
Endesa France/SNET.


"Based on the good market positions that E.ON will obtain in
Spain and Italy and the attractive base in the French market,
E.ON will continue to grow its strong position in the European
energy market," the company said.


Madrid has been fighting tooth and nail to keep E.ON from taking
over Endesa, even though EU competition regulators have approved
the deal.


The E.ON-Endesa case has been widely seen in Brussels as a
flagrant example of protectionism by Spain.


The European Commission, which polices competition policy in the
EU, opened a second lawsuit on Wednesday because Spain had defied
its repeated requests for Madrid to lift conditions it had
imposed on E.ON's bid for Endesa.

