

Palestinian foreign minister Ziad Abu Amr on Monday criticised
Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert's statement that he was ready
to attend an Arab summit to discuss a new peace plan.


"He is putting the horse before the carriage, he is trying to
jump over steps as if the occupation did not exist," said the
foreign minister at a Paris news conference.


Olmert said on Sunday that he was ready to attend a summit with
Arab leaders to discuss a Saudi-drafted peace plan and called on
Arab nations to convene such a meeting.


"I am announcing to the heads of the Arab states on this occasion
that if the Saudi king initiates a meeting of moderate Arab
states and invites me and the head of the Palestinian Authority
in order to present us the Saudi ideas, we will come to hear them
and we will be glad to voice ours," Olmert said.


The Palestinian foreign miniser, on his first visit to Europe
since a new unity government was formed two weeks ago, said "the
Arab initiative provides the best basis for a just, speedy and
global solution.  How can Israel hope for better?".


At their summit in Riyadh last week, Arab leaders revived a five-
year-old plan that offers Israel normal relations if it withdraws
from all land seized in the 1967 Six Day War, and allows for the
creation of a Palestinian state and the return of Palestinian
refugees.


Israel rejected the plan when it was first adopted in 2002, but
has now said it could serve as a basis for talks provided there
were changes on the refugee issue, something the Arab heads of
state rejected in Riyadh.

