

The International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia on
Monday confirmed a 20-year sentence against Miroslav Bralo, a
Bosnian Croat convicted of the rape and murder of Bosnian
Muslims.


Bralo had pleaded guilty to his part in atrocities carried out by
the Joceri (the Jokers) paramilitary unit attached to the
Croatian Defence Council during the 1992-1995 war in Bosnia.


At the original trial, Bralo had answered: "I am guilty and I
deeply regret it," as each of the eight counts of war crimes and
crimes against humanity were read out to him.


In one incident in April 1993 he took part in a massacre at the
villages of Ahmici and Nadioci, in which about 100 Muslims were
killed.


He helped in the killing of 14 members of two families, including
nine children. He also blew up a local mosque.


In another incident the following month he repeatedly raped a
prisoner, a Bosnian Muslim woman, in front of other soldiers. The
woman later gave evidence against him.


He also admitted to killing three unarmed Muslim men in the woods
close to his home village in 1993.


Bralo, who was deputy commander of the unit, was originally
sentenced in December 2005. But Bralo's lawyers argued to the
UN's appeal court that the original sentence had been too harsh.


They said the original judgement had not taken into account the
deteriorating military situation in the region at the time; nor
the fact that Bralo and his wife had themselves been the victims
of an attack.


They also argued that Bralo had been released from prison in
return for his participation in the attack on Ahmici and that he
had been under pressure from his superiors.


The appeal court, chaired by Senegalese judge Andresia Vaz,
confirmed the original sentence.

