

NATO warned on Monday that it would not tolerate any violence in
Kosovo ahead of a UN Security Council session on the future of
the Serbian province.


"No one should have illusions that violence or threats of
violence could in any way be an element in the final solution" to
the status of the ethnic Albanian majority province, said NATO
chief Jaap de Hoop Scheffer.


"Anybody who would like to resolve it with violence is not only
wrong, but is harming the process from whatever side of Kosovo
society she or he comes," Scheffer said.


Speaking to reporters after reviewing Kosovo's security along
with members of the North Atlantic Council, he stressed that
"violence will not be tolerated" and that NATO's 17,000-strong
KFOR troops were "prepared to act if necessary."


Scheffer's one-day visit followed a series of bomb blasts in the
tiny Balkan province last week as the international community
prepared to define its future status after nearly eight years of
UN administration.


On Tuesday, UN special envoy Martti Ahtisaari is to brief the UN
Security Council about his contentious proposal to grant the
province internationally supervised independence.


Such a move is staunchly opposed by Serbia.


Kosovo has been run by the United Nations since a NATO bombing
campaign helped to drive out Serbian forces who were waging a
brutal crackdown against the province's ethnic Albanians in 1999.


It has since legally remained a part of Serbia, but its ethnic
Albanian majority is impatient for independence.


The international community fears any further delays to the UN-
led process to define its new status could spark renewed
outbreaks of inter-ethnic violence.


"I am quite sure that the Security Council will come to a just
conclusion," said Scheffer.


"We should not expect a rush (but), on the other hand, we should
not expect unnecessary delays," he said referring to the upcoming
UN Security Council debate on Kosovo.

