

One of the Czech Republic's oldest noble families put its family
treasure trove of works of art on show to the public on Monday at
a restored palace in the heart of Prague.


The "Prince's Collection" exhibition includes paintings by
Bruegel, Canaletto and Velasquez, collected over the centuries by
the Lobkowicz family and returned to them at the start of the
1990s following confiscation by the former communist regime.


"We have a true family collection and wanted to make it
accessible so that the public could share in our history,"
William Lobkowicz told AFP.


As well as paintings, the collection includes the manuscripts of
three symphonies dedicated by composer Ludwig van Beethoven to
Joseph Franz Maximilian Lobkowicz (1772-1816), one of the
family's biggest art patrons.


A large part of the collection has been transferred from one of
the family's stately homes outside Prague to be housed in the
Lobkowicz Palace, which forms part of the Prague Castle complex
dear to tourists.


Hundreds of stonemasons, painters and carpenters spent the last
14 months spectacularly reviving the palace's splendour and
preparing it for its new role after it was previously used as an
annex to the National Museum.


"Everything was in a very bad state, it was necessary to do
everything again. Let us hope that it will last a hundred years,"
Lobkowicz joked, refusing, however, to put a price tag on the
restoration work.


The family hopes their efforts will tempt at least some visitors.
The Prague Castle complex had four million visitors last year.


Lobkowicz Palace was one of 10 castles returned to the family as
part of the post-communist restitution process.

