

A Turkish court on Monday ordered the arrest of a Kurdish
politician for having allegedly praised separatist Kurdish rebels
fighting the government in a public speech, court officials said.


Aydin Budak, mayor of the town of Cizre and member of the
Democratic Society Party (DTP), the main Kurdish political
movement in Turkey, was remanded in custody pending trial for a
speech he made on March 21 during Newroz, the Kurdish new year.


DTP members have increasingly become the target of judicial
action in recent weeks on charges of supporting the Kurdistan
Workers' Party (PKK), which has waged a bloody campaign for
Kurdish self-rule in the southeast since 1984.


The PKK is listed as a terrorist group by Ankara and much of the
international community.


Budak was charged with praising an illegal organisation and
making its propaganda, and of inciting hatred among the
population, the sources said.


Prosecutors now have to draw up a detailed indictment for the
trial to start.


In his Newroz speech, Budak sent greetings to PKK leader Abdullah
Ocalan, who has been serving a life sentence for separatism since
1999, and insisted that millions of Kurds see him as their
leader.


Prosecutors have also launched a preliminary investigation
against Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan on charges that he
praised Ocalan by calling him "sayin" -- a word meaning esteemed
or honorable, but which also doubles for "mister" -- in a radio
interview in 2000.


The Kurdish conflict in Turkey has claimed more than 37,000 lives
since the PKK took up arms in 1984.

