

An umbrella body of nearly 100 non-government organisations said
Monday it was concerned a planned new media law could undermine
democracy and media freedom in post-Taliban Afghanistan.


The Agency Coordinating Body For Afghan Relief (ACBAR) said a
draft of the amended law, due to be debated in parliament this
week, was vague and open to interpretation.


There was "a clear risk" certain restrictions "could be exploited
for political or personal purposes," it said in a statement
adding to similar concern expressed by media groups.


This included references to "accurate news" and a prohibition on
materials which "disrupt public's minds" or "harm the physical,
spiritual and moral well-being of people, especially children and
adolescents."


The draft also requires private radio and televisions to
"maintain balance" and impartiality on political issues, the
statement said. And it introduces a reference to the principles
of Islam.


A parliamentary media committee is preparing a new draft of the
law that is expected to be presented to parliament this week.


Afghanistan's media sector exploded after the fall of the
extremist Islamist Taliban regime, which banned music and only
allowed religious broadcasts.


Today there are hundreds of registered publications, many of them
politically aligned, and dozens of radio and television stations.


But the media and the government have been at loggerheads, with
parliamentarians assaulting a reporter who filmed a scuffle in
parliament and a failed attempt last year to control reporting on
the Taliban insurgency.


An editor was in jail for nearly three months in 2005 after being
accused of blasphemy because articles in his publication
questioned the severity of Islamic punishments for crimes such as
adultery.


And a privately run television station was fined 1,000 dollars
early last year for broadcasting "un-Islamic" material, including
raunchy clips from Bollywood movies.

