

America's Cup holders Alinghi will get a chance to size up the 11
would-be challengers in the final preliminary heat for sport's
oldest prize held here this week.


The Swiss boat's New Zealand skipper Brad Butterworth, told a
press conference on Monday on the eve of the four-day session:
"It's good for us to sail against the other teams.


"We'll take something, but it's not the same as sailing in a
match race. It's difficult in a fleet race to get a good idea."


This week's heat, known as Act 13, will see the 11 boats hoping
to win the right to take on Alinghi in the head-to-head for
yachting's most prestigious prize put through their paces for the
last time before the start of the competition proper.


That comes on April 16 with the Louis-Vuitton Cup which will
determine which boat goes through to the 32nd America's Cup match
race against Alinghi which begins on June 23.


Butterworth added: "It's a design race. The fastest boat will
win. Like any other Cup I've done, the fastest boat won and I
don't think it'll be any different."


Chris Dickson, skipper of one of Alinghi's main rivals, the
United States boat BMW Oracle, reckons Tuesday's run-out will
prove more useful for the holders than those aiming to deprive
the Swiss team of their crown.


"This act is more important for Alinghi checking in against the
challengers and not the other way around," he said.


This is the first time yachting's holy grail has been staged in
Europe since the inaugural edition around the Isle of Wight off
the south coast of England in 1851 with Valencia chosen as the
venue after Alinghi, from landlocked Switzerland, stunned Team
new Zealand in Auckland Bay four years ago.


The New Zealanders are desperate to get their hands back on the
coveted prize.


"We are working really hard in order to take the Cup back home
with us," Grant Dalton, the boss of Emirates Team New Zealand,
said last month.

