

Mortgage lending group New Century Financial Corp. said Monday it
was seeking bankruptcy protection following the maelstrom in the
so-called subprime segment of the US housing market.


New Century, the second-largest provider of subprime mortgages to
people with below-average credit ratings, said it would seek to
reorganized under chapter 11 of the US bankruptcy code.


The California-based finance group was among the most high-
profile players in subprime lending, which has seen a wave of
delinquencies and defaults resulting from a rise in interest
rates affecting adjustable-rate mortgages and a softening in the
once-sizzling US real estate market.


"The decision to pursue the sale of the company's assets and
operations through the bankruptcy process was a difficult but
appropriate decision for our Board to make," said Brad Morrice,
president and chief executive.


"This was a very hard step for me personally and clearly not the
outcome I would have preferred. However, given the sudden and
significant challenges facing our industry and New Century
specifically, bankruptcy is the best means available to allow the
company's assets and operations to be sold through an orderly
process."


New Century said CIT Group and Greenwich Capital Financial
Products agreed to provide up to 150 million in debtor-in-
possession financing to help its reorganization under court
supervision.


New Century also said it would sell its servicing assets and
servicing platform to Carrington Capital Management for 139
million dollars, subject to the approval of the Bankruptcy Court.


New Century said it would cut 54 percent of its jobs or 3,200
positions as part of its reorganization.

