

The Algerian army continued its ten-day-old search for Islamist
militants in the eastern Kabylie region on Monday amid an almost
total information blackout, witnesses said.


At least 20 Islamists and three soldiers have been killed in the
operation to flush out members of the Al-Qaeda-linked Salafist
Group for Preaching and Combat (GSPC), according to local
newspaper correspondents.


The interior ministry Monday said one "terrorist" had been shot
dead in the region on Sunday, and another near Biskra, 400
kilometres (250 miles) south of the capital.


The two main roads running from Bejaia to Amizour and from El-
Kseur to Bouira, south-east of Algiers, have been partly shut
since March 25.


Several thousand government groups are involved in the operation
in Kabylie, and residents speaking to AFP by telephone said they
had heard artillery fire and rockets fired from helicopters.


According to the El-Khabar daily, at least 150 Islamists are
being sought across the vast mountainous area seen as a haven for
the GSPC, which recently renamed itself the "Armed Branch of Al-
Qaeda in Islamic Maghreb".


On Sunday night, a group of police officers were attacked in El-
Kseur, near Amizour, but it is not clear if there were any
fatalities.


There was no official confirmation of the information, as the
authorities refuse to comment on ongoing operations. All
civilians, including journalists, are banned from the area.


Also on Sunday, the Ech-Chourouk daily quoted a GSPC statement
announcing the death of Soheib Abou Abderrahmane, a senior
associate of the organisation's leader Abdelmalek Droudkel, alias
Abou Moussaab Abdelouadoud.


The GSPC has claimed responsibility for a series of deadly
attacks in Algeria and is also active in other countries, notably
Tunisia.

