

Right-wing presidential candidate Nicolas Sarkozy warned Monday
of a social explosion unless immigration to France is brought
under control.


"There is a certain exasperation in France. And why? Because of
the way national identity is disputed, because of the lack of
control over immigration, because of fraud, because of waste," he
told a news conference.


"Who cannot see that there is a clear link between a policy of
uncontrolled immigration over 30 or 40 years and the social
explosion in our poor neighbourhoods. It's blindingly obvious
that there is a link," he said.


"If one cannot even say that in the poor neighbourhoods there is
a population that recently became French and that the size of
this population has created problems of integration which mean
that our republican pact threatens to explode -- if one cannot
even say that, there is no chance of solving the problem.


"Controlling immigration is a prerequisite for safeguarding our
social pact. Otherwise it will explode. We need to control
immigration, dry up its source, in order to be able to integrate
those who are here," he said.


Sarkozy, 52, who is the favourite in the polls ahead of the
first-round of the presidential election on April 22, has
triggered an angry reaction on the left with his call for a
ministry of "immigration and national identity".


Two prominent members of Sarkozy's own camp expressed
reservations about his ministry idea on Monday, with Prime
Minister Dominique de Villepin saying that he was "not entirely
in favour".


Centrist former minister Simone Veil, who last month endorsed
Sarkozy's presidential bid, said the idea was "more than
imprudent. It is more serious .... I find the formula very
ambiguous. No one knows what it means."


But Veil praised Sarkozy for his "openness.... He may be blunt in
his language but people are wrong to doubt his humanity."

