

Senior defence officials from nuclear-armed South Asian rivals
Pakistan and India are to meet later this week for talks on
possible troop cuts at the world's highest frontline, an official
said Monday.


An Indian defence ministry spokesman said the defence secretaries
of the two countries would meet on Friday and Saturday, most
likely in Islamabad, for fresh discussions on the 6,300-metre
(20,800-feet) Siachen glacier.


Thousands of Indian and Pakistani soldiers are posted on the
Siachen glacier -- situated in the far north of Kashmir close to
the Chinese border -- where altitude, brutal cold and accidents
have claimed more lives than actual combat.


The two sides fought regular artillery duels in the region up to
November 2003, when a ceasefire was agreed along the heavily-
militarised Line of Control.


Analysts say Siachen is of little strategic value, but the Indian
army -- which has occupied most of the high-altitude battlefield
since 1987 -- wants existing troop positions marked out to
dissuade Pakistan from moving its soldiers forward in the event
of a pull-out.


Pakistan, which claims all of Kashmir, fears that drawing down
its positions would be tacit acceptance of India's claims to
Siachen and the area as a whole. The two countries have fought
two of their three wars over the region.


The Siachen issue was also raised in talks in New Delhi on Monday
between Indian Foreign Minister Pranab Mukherjee and his
Pakistani counterpart Khurshid Kasuri.


"The two ministers reviewed bilateral relations and discussed how
to take the relations forward," Indian Foreign Secretary
Shivshankar Menon told reporters.


"They discussed the Siachen and Sir Creek issues," he said,
referring to the glacier and an area on the far south of the
border.


The ministers were meeting on the sidelines of preparations for a
South Asian Association of Regional Cooperation (SAARC) summit
due to be held on Tuesday and Wednesday.

