

Leading human rights activists in Russia complained of police
brutality after officers arrested four of their number in the
capital Sunday just before a demonstration, Echo of Moscow radio
reported.


Riot police moved in as they were about to start a tour of the
sites of last weekend's police crackdown on a protest by The
Other Russia opposition movement, two activists told the station.


One of those arrested was Lev Ponomarev, head of the For Human
Rights movement.


"A group of special police rudely blocked our way," Ponomarev
told the station.


"They put themselves in front of us without introducing
themselves, without saying what they wanted, they seized us
brutally and pulled us towards a bus," he added.


Veteran activist Lyudmila Alexeyeva told the station: "They were
just walking and they were arrested with brutality and they are
now taking them to the Tverskaya street district station."


Ponomarev and Alexeyeva are both internationally known human
rights activists.


Ponomarev was jailed last September for three days for having
organised an unauthorised demonstration for victims of the 2004
Beslan hostage tragedy, in which 332 people lost their lives,
including 186 children.


Alexeyeva, who was a dissident during the Soviet era and now
heads up the Moscow Helsinki Group, has won international awards
for her human rights activism.


A Moscow police spokesman told AFP: "We have no information on
the subject."


This latest incident comes just a day after the authorities
promised an inquiry into last weekend's police crackdown on
opposition demonstrations in Moscow and St Petersburg by The
Other Russia movement in which hundreds were arrested.


AFP reporters at the rallies witnessed helmeted riot police
clubbing dozens of protestors. Several journalists were also
beaten.


Former world chess champion Garry Kasparov, one of the leaders of
the opposition coalition, was among those detained.

