

German coach Joachim Low on Sunday criticised the Bundesliga's
tactical and technical standards compared with the rest of Europe
and said Germany's future stars need better coaching.


The 47-year-old wants to see Germany's top clubs tailor training
to individual players to make sure their elite players are in the
best possible shape.


"There are things which I am not happy about in the Bundesliga,
particularly the training of the young players with regards to
technology and tactics," said Low in the German paper Bild.


"I think sides have to improve their tactical planning and we are
seeing technical errors which we just should not be seeing at
this level."


Low succeeded Jurgen Klinsmann as Germany's coach after the 2006
World Cup and wants to see Germany's stars have individual
monitoring and training programmes - like in England's
Premiership.


"Look at what happens at Chelsea and Arsenal's training grounds.
At those clubs there are six coaches around during training
sessions," he said.


But Germany top their Euro 2008 qualifying pool and are in pole-
position to qualify for next summer's European Championships in
Austria and Switzerland, which Low is already planning for.


And Germany's build-up to next June's event will be identical to
last year's World Cup, revealed Low.


"We will go to the sun with wives and families just before the
championships start, the week we spent in Sardinia before World
Cup was very important to help the team relax," said Low.


"And during the Bundesliga's winter break, we won't be having any
training periods or friendly games, it's important to have a
recovery period."

