

Madonna and the Malawian baby boy she is trying to adopt flew out
of Lilongwe on Sunday bound for London after a six-day visit
which saw her tour orphanages that she is helping fund.


The US pop star's private jet, parked far away from the main
terminal of Kamuzu International Airport, took off at 2.25 pm
(1225 GMT).


Holding one-year-old David Banda and accompanied by her
biological daughter, Lourdes, Madonna arrived at the airport with
her entourage in two vehicles before getting in the plane.


She gave no comment to reporters who had gathered at the airport
on the outskirts of the Malawian capital.


The singer is in the process of adopting David and was awarded
interim custody in October. It was the first time that she and
the youngster had been back to Malawi.


During her trip, Madonna took David back to the orphanage where
he had been living until she began the adoption process last year
and also met with street children and prostitutes at a
government-run rehabiliation centre.


The singer attracted large crowds and widespread media attention
during her trip to Malawi, one of the poorest countries in
Africa.


While her move to adopt David has prompted widespread criticism
outside Malawi, locals have been overwhelmingly positive about
her visit, seeing it as a chance to put their country on the map.


"I am quite sure many people outside the country started to know
about Malawi because of her," said Mest Sinati, a gardener who
lives close to the luxury lodge where Madonna stayed during her
visit.


"People who have money to spare should emulate her example of
helping poor people like us," he added.


Although David's mother died shortly after giving birth, the
visit saw an emotional reunion between David and his father
Yohane.


There had been speculation that Madonna, whose British film
director husband Guy Ritchie was not on the trip, was planning to
adopt a Malawian girl but the reports were later denied by her
spokeswoman.

