

Three hours before polling closed, nearly three-quarters of
voters had cast ballots in the first round of France's
presidential election, indicating a sharp rise in turnout
compared to 2002, officials said Sunday.


By 1500 GMT, the interior ministry put turnout at 74 percent,
already exceeding the total first round participation rate of
71.6 percent five years ago.


Turnout was on course to set an all-time record for a
presidential election, according to polling firms IFOP and CSA
who predicted it would reach 85 to 87 percent by the close of the
last polling stations at 8:00 pm (1800 GMT).


But a later estimate by IPSOS/DELL put turnout at 84 percent --
just short of the current 84.75 percent record -- based on final
turnout at a sample of stations that closed at 1600 GMT.


French voters were choosing a successor to President Jacques
Chirac, 74, with the right-winger Nicolas Sarkozy and Socialist
Segolene Royal favourites to head to the second round run-off on
May 6.


Queues had formed outside polling stations in the capital and
other major cities, with turnouts of 80 percent and higher
clocked up in several regions including Correze, the stronghold
of Jacques Chirac.


In 2002, more than half the electorate either abstained or voted
for the extreme left and right candidates, allowing veteran far-
right leader Jean-Marie Le Pen to qualify for the second round
against Jacques Chirac.


Around 44.5 million registered voters -- an increase of 3.4
million on 2002 -- were eligible Sunday to choose a successor to
Chirac, who steps down next month after leading the country for
12 years.


The highest turnout in a French presidential election, at 84.75
percent, was in 1965 for the election of Charles de Gaulle -- the
first time the country elected a head of state by universal
suffrage.

