

David James broke the record for Premiership cleansheets with a
superb display that helped Portsmouth earn a 0-0 draw at Aston
Villa on Sunday.


Portsmouth keeper James now has 142 Premiership cleansheets, one
ahead of David Seaman's previous record, but he had to work hard
to remain unbeaten.


Villa dominated from start to finish, but could not find a way
past the former England international, who had waited five
matches to beat the record since his last cleansheet.


Portsmouth remain in the race for a UEFA Cup place thanks to
James's heroics, while mid-table Villa extended their unbeaten
run to six matches.


Craig Gardner, who had scored his first goal for the club last
weekend, was close to giving Villa the lead after seven minutes.


John Carew held off Linvoy Primus and whipped in a low cross
which Gardner poked goalwards, only for James to brilliantly
block the shot.


James had to be alert again when Wilfred Bouma's cross threatened
to dip over him, but the former Liverpool stopper stretched to
keep it out.


Carew should have broken the deadlock when Gareth Barry flicked
on Stilian Petrov's corner, but the Norway striker made a
complete hash of his attempted volley.


Villa were responsible for most of what passed for goalmouth
action in a drab first half. Patrick Berger tried his luck with a
long-range strike that went over before James produced another
good stop to keep out Gardner's low drive.


James was proving a formidable barrier and he repelled a fierce
effort from Carew soon after half-time.


Portmouth harbour ambitions of qualifying for Europe, but this
moribund performance hardly made a convincing case. Harry
Redknapp's team hardly had a shot on target and were fortunate to
find James in top form.


Barry had one last chance to win it and keep James waiting for
his record, but the England midfielder scuffed his shot wide.

