

China on Sunday urged cooperation with India to resolve a
decades-old border dispute saying an accord would benefit the
people of the world's two most populous nations.


"We need to be good friends, good neighbours and good partners,"
China's Vice Foreign Minister Dai Bingguo told reporters after
several rounds of talks with India's national security advisor
M.K. Narayanan since Friday.


"The whole world is watching the developments in China and India
and we must cooperate for the common benefit of our people," Dai
said speaking through an interpreter in this southern Indian
resort town in Tamil Nadu state.


"These border talks are being held to achieve this goal. Both our
people take pride in our ancient civilizations and I hope your
media can do something to strengthen our relations," he added.


This is the 10th round of talks between the two sides since India
and China appointed special representatives in 2003 to speed up a
resolution to the dispute which is a legacy of the brief but
bitter 1962 conflict.


India's Narayanan said talks to resolve the issue were
"progressing well, reflecting the strong resolve of both the
countries" to find a solution.


India says China occupies 38,000 square kilometres (15,200 square
miles) of its territory, while Beijing claims 90,000 square
kilometres of the remote Indian state of Arunachal Pradesh.


A formal ceasefire line was never established after 1962, but the
border has remained mostly peaceful after agreements were signed
in 1993 and 1996.


During a visit to New Delhi in November, Chinese President Hu
Jintao said both sides would give priority to ending the row.


Diplomatic ties between the two economic rivals have increased in
recent years with many bilateral visits and two-way trade
touching two billion dollars a month, India's trade minister
Kamal Nath told reporters.


Sources said premier Singh plans to visit China this year.

