

Australian Ducati rider Casey Stoner won the Turkish Moto GP here
on Sunday.


Stoner - who leads the standings by 10 points heading towards the
China GP - winning his second GP of the season beat home Spaniard
Tony Elias on a Honda while another Ducati rider Loris Capirossi
of Italy was third.


It turned out to be a nightmare race for sparky Italian genius
Valentino Rossi.


The winner of the last race the Spanish GP started on pole for a
race he has never won but ended up a disconsolate 10th on his
Yamaha, got off his bike at the end of the race and looked at the
rear tyre before going in for a meeting with his team.


The writing was on the wall early on when he dropped to fifth on
the first lap after going off the racetrack, while there was a
mass collision down the field which saw four of the riders -
including the catalyst for the crash Olivier Jacques - come off
their bikes and resulted in the premature exit of Spaniard Dani
Pedrosa.


Rossi, though, fought tenaciously and was up into second behind
Stoner after passing Capirossi with 14 laps remaining and Elias
had smoothly moved up into third as he also passed Capirossi.


Elias' seemingly remorseless progress saw him pass Rossi to move
into second but with 11 laps remaining was not making any inroads
into Stoner's lead.


Stoner, second last year and winner of the 250cc race in 2005,
just simply extended his lead and came well clear to give himself
a perfect lift for the China race as he gained 19 points on
Rossi.

