

Clashes between Ethiopian troops and Islamist insurgents here on
Sunday left at least 42 civilians dead, and brought the death
toll to 210 from five days of fighting, a rights group said.


"We have collected the bodies of 42 civilians who were killed
today. Some 62 other wounded people were taken to hospital," said
Sudan Ali Ahmed, chairman of the Elman Peace and Human Rights
Organisation.


Ahmed group collates figures from hospitals, other humanitarian
groups and counting bodies abandoned in the streets of the Somali
capital.


Mutilated bodies lay rotting in the streets as shooting barred
residents from collecting them for burial in line with Muslim
traditions.


"Bodies are lying rotting in areas we cannot access," Ahmed said.


The group appealed to both sides to halt hostilities so that
civilians still trapped and others escaping to the outskirts of
the city could be helped.


"We are appealing to both sides to stop the fighting. This is
unacceptable the civilians are bearing the brunt," he added.


The UN refugee agency said more than 321,000 people have fled
Mogadishu since February 1. Many are camped under trees and
makeshift hovels in the city's outskirts, without supplies and
where disease outbreaks have been reported.


On Sunday, hundreds of terrified civilians continued filing out
of the blood- soaked capital, as the artillery duels showed no
sign of let up.


Prospects for a ceasefire were shattered last week after the
Ethiopian forces refused to meet elders from Mogadishu's dominant
Hawiye clan until commanders of the insurgency would be present.


But the elders blamed the Ethiopians of planning to fight until
they wipe out the insurgency and create a secure environment for
the embattled government.

