

Two men and a youth have confessed to desecrating the gravestones
of French Muslim soldiers in a military cemetery in northeastern
France, the prosecutor said Sunday.


The men, both aged 22, and a 16-year-old admitted carrying out
the attack on Wednesday night for racist reasons, prosecutor
Jean-Pierre Valensi said.


He said their motivation was "somewhat confused, a mix of Nazi
and neo-Nazi and skinhead ideology, one of them said Hitler was
his idol."


The graves of 52 soldiers were daubed on with swastikas and Nazi
slogans like "Heil Hitler" in the ossuary of the Notre Dame de
Lorette cemetery, France's biggest military graveyard, near the
town of Arras, where the remains of many thousands of soldiers
killed in World War I are buried.


All three have been remanded in custody. The two adults will
appear in court in Arras on Wednesday, where they could face
being jailed for five years and fined 75,000 euros (102,000
dollars). The minor will be dealt with by a juvenile court.


Valensi said the three young men, from two small towns in
France's northern Pas- de-Calais region, had all claimed to have
been intoxicated on the night in question after drinking 12 cans
of beer each.


"They are caught up un their ideology and do not realise the
seriousness of what they have done and that they have attacked a
community," said Valensi.


"The attack was planned in detail. They located the place, they
bought paint bombs, they gave each other a task (to paint the
gravestones etc.) and they wore hooded tops," he said.


The men were apprehended after a walker spotted their car near
the cemetery. Police found paint bombs in the car and at their
homes and analysis showed that the paint was the same kind used
in the graveyard.


The prosecutor said none of them had previous criminal
convictions.


Five people were originally arrested over the desecration but two
young women were subsequently released without charge.

