

Unidentified gunmen dragged 23 members of northern Iraq's Yazidi
religious minority from a bus on Sunday and shot them dead by the
roadside, police Brigadier General Mohammed El-Waqa'a said.


"Workers were travelling back from a textile plant in Mosul to
their home in Bashika, east of the city," he said. "Several
gunmen stopped the buses, chose the Yazidis among the passengers
and killed them in front of everybody."


Police said a group of cars blocked the road in the Al-Nur
neighbourhood of east Mosul, while others set up a cordon to
protect the gang that stormed the bus convoy. The captives were
executed on a field by the road.


Three wounded Yazidis survived, officers said.


The Yazidis, who number some 500,000, mainly in northern Iraq,
speak a dialect of Kurdish but follow a pre-Islamic religion and
have their own cultural traditions.


They believe in God the creator and respect the Biblical and
Koranic prophets, especially Abraham, but their main focus of
worship is Malak Taus, the chief of the archangels, often
represented by a peacock.


Some followers of other religions know this angel as Lucifer or
Satan, leading to popular prejudice that the secretive Yazidis
are devil-worshippers.


Nevertheless, the ancient community has survived for centuries
alongside its Muslim and Christian neighbours. Now, however, with
sectarian war gripping much of Iraq, Sunni Muslim extremists have
begun to threaten the community.


Mosul is in the grip of a turf war between Kurds and Arabs and a
bitter struggle between Sunni insurgents, the Iraqi government
and the US military.


Last week, insurgent gunmen killed 16 Iraqi troops at a
checkpoint in Al-Hadhar, on the road towards Tikrit, Baghdad and
war-torn central Iraq.

