

The son-in-law of Nagasaki mayor Iccho Ito, who was gunned down
by a gangster last week while campaigning for a new term, lost in
his bid to succeed him in Japan's local elections on Sunday.


Makoto Yokoo, 40, a Tokyo-based journalist until Ito died
Wednesday from the gun wounds, bowed to former city official
Tomihisa Taue, 50, who had criticised any "hereditary power
succession."


After 60 percent of votes were counted, Taue led Yokoo by some
50,000-46,000, prompting the Jiji and Kyodo news agencies as well
as major broadcast networks to declare Taue was certain to win.


"It was extremely unfortunate that I could not live up to your
expectations," Yokoo told his supporters in a tearful speech
televised nationwide. "I feel sorry for being so helpless."


A jubilant Taue said, "The result showed the willingness of the
citizens to create their own town under their own leader."


Ito, 61, an avid anti-nuclear campaigner in Nagasaki which has
sprung back from atomic-bomb devastation in the closing days of
World War II, had been heavily tipped to be re-elected to a
fourth four-year term.


The former local assemblyman, who was affiliated to the ruling
conservative Liberal-Democratic Party, was shot twice in the back
outside his campaign office near Nagasaki's central rail station.


The motive of the assassin, Tetsuya Shiroo, linked to Japan's
biggest underworld syndicate, Yamaguchi-gumi, remains unclear but
the crime is widely seen as a personal grudge.


Shiroo allegedly had grievances with the city authorities after
his vehicle was damaged at a construction site four years ago. He
had reportedly gone more than 30 times to a city office seeking
up to 2.7 million yen (22,500 dollars) in compensation.


The murder has prompted the government to consider tightening
anti-gun control in one of the world's most safe countries.

