

Vice president Atiku Abubakar, one of the three leading
contenders in the race for Nigeria's presidency, on Sunday said
the country's presidential and legislative elections must be
cancelled.


"I have already rejected the elections. They have no alternative
other than to cancel them altogether", Abubakar told journalists
in the capital, Abuja, a day after the elections, marred by
ballot-box chaos and violence.


"What we have seen clearly proves our fears that it is the worst
election ever seen", he added.


Abubakar's party, the Action Congress, dubbed Saturday's
presidential election a "mess".


The vice president's call came shortly after Nigeria's largest
poll monitoring group threatened to call for the historic
presidential election to be re-run.


Saturday's election for a successor to President Olusegun
Obasanjo had been touted as a democratic showcase marking the
African giant's first peaceful handover of power from one
civilian to another since independence in 1960.


But there were reports of widespread electoral chaos across
Africa's most populous nation, notably ballot papers failing to
be delivered on time to the 120,000 polling stations, with some
Nigerians unable to cast their votes at all, and others only late
in the day.


The havoc was partly caused by a Supreme Court decision this week
to allow Abubakar, who is facing corruption allegations, to run
in the election, overruling his disqualification by the election
commission.

