

At least 39 people have been killed in election violence in two
rounds of successive weekend elections in Nigeria, officials
said.


In the latest recorded electoral violence, police said Sunday
that four people were killed and 12 injured Saturday in the
northern Nigerian state of Katsina.


Federal police spokesman Haz Iwendi told AFP that Sunday's
casualties occurred in three separate clashes with police over
delayed polls or missing ballot papers.


Two prominent presidential candidates come from Katsina, the
ruling People's Democratic Party's Umaru Yar'Adua and one of his
strongest challengers Muhamadu Buhari, of the All Nigeria
People's Party (ANPP).


Iwendi said police were still compiling nationwide casualty
figures at midday Sunday.


On Friday, eve of this weekend's presidential and legislative
polls, seven police officers being deployed for electon duty were
killed in an ambush in the state of Nassarawa in central Nigeria.


Another seven officers were shot dead by unknown assailants on 14
April -- when governorship elections were held -- who attacked
two police stations in Port Harcourt in oil-rich southern
Nigeria.


Police said that at least another 21 people were also killed
during the 14 April polls.


In violence apparently unrelated to the elections, 38 people died
following an attack by Islamists against a police station in the
northern state of Kano last Tuesday. Of those killed, 12 were
policemen, one civilian and 25 Islamist suspects shot dead by
soldiers the next day.

