

Egypt's foreign minister and intelligence chief are heading to
Khartoum to bolster efforts to diffuse the mounting crisis in
Sudan's Darfur region, the government announced on Sunday.


Foreign Minister Ahmed Abul Gheit and intelligence chief Omar
Suleiman will be in Khartoum on Monday with a letter from
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak to his Sudanese counterpart Omar
al-Beshir "concerning developments in the Darfur crisis and means
of overcoming current international tensions."


Discussions are to focus on bringing all rebel factions into the
political process in Darfur as well as the "three stages of
support for the African peacekeepers," a government statement
added.


While Sudan has accepted the second phase of a proposed UN plan
to provide additional manpower for the beleaguered African Union
peacekeepers, the United States and Britain are still threatening
to impose more sanctions.


Egypt has publicly opposed sanctions and lashed out at Western
powers over its aggressive stance towards Khartoum.


"It would be more logical for the international community to
welcome Sudan's response to the UN proposal and encourage it
instead of threatening it, exerting pressure and raising
suspicions about its seriousness to cooperate," Abul Gheit said
last week.


Khartoum has yet to agree to the third and final phase of the UN
plan which would envision some 20,000 UN peacekeepers supporting
the African force.


During a meeting earlier this month with Mubarak, a US
congressional delegation urged Egypt to step up its involvement
in international efforts to secure Khartoum's approval for the
Darfur peacekeeping plan.

