

Manly and Melbourne led Australia's National Rugby League by four
points after victories this weekend.


Manly Sea Eagles maintained their defensive record, conceding
just one try to the Gold Coast Titans in a 20-8 home victory on
Sunday to top the standings with six wins.


Last year's grand finalists Melbourne Storm trail Manly on points
difference after they held out Penrith 30-20 in Melbourne on
Saturday.


Manly and Melbourne head the table with 12 points, North
Queensland running third with eight points but a chance to move
closer when they host South Sydney Monday.


There are seven sides locked on six points - New Zealand
Warriors, South Sydney, Parramatta, Gold Coast, Newcastle,
Cronulla and Bulldogs.


Champions Brisbane posted their second win of the season,
upsetting the farewell festivities of Newcastle's Andrew Johns
with a 20-16 victory in Newcastle.


Manly fullback Brett Stewart scored twice in the first five
minutes to take his home ground tally to 33 tries from as many
games.


The Eagles led 18-0 at half time and have now conceded just eight
tries in six games.


Canterbury Bulldogs ended Parramatta's three-game winning streak
with a come- from-behind 21-18 win at Parramatta Stadium.


A Daniel Holdsworth drop goal and a Hazem El Masri penalty goal
got the Bulldogs home after trailing 16-12 at half time.


Cronulla established themselves as the second-best defensive side
in the competition with a 26-0 win over Canberra on Saturday.


Centre Ben Pomeroy scored a hat trick of tries, but more
impressively for the Sharks, it was the second time they kept a
team scoreless at home following their 18-0 drubbing of Penrith
in round one.

