

Bangladesh's High Court asked the government Sunday to explain
why former prime minister Khaleda Zia is under house arrest,
lawyers said, in a move that could delay her predicted exile from
the country.


At a hearing on Thursday, the court had asked the government of
the emergency- ruled country to clarify by Sunday if Zia was
under house arrest.


A response from the government was given which satisfied the
court that Zia's movements had been restricted, said defence
lawyer Azizul Haq on Sunday.


Now the court has ordered the government to explain its reasons
and take steps to ensure that the hearing take place within five
days, he added.


The order was issued as a plane from Saudi Arabia arrived in
Dhaka to take the two-time prime minister into exile in Saudi
Arabia.


Haq said he believed the ruling would make it impossible for Zia
to be sent into exile before the case was heard.


The government is trying to exile both the country's main
political leaders -- Zia, leader of the Bangladesh Nationalist
Party (BNP), and Sheikh Hasina Wajed, who heads the Awami League,
in order to give the country a fresh start.


The two leaders have alternated in power since 1991 and stand
accused of misrule that led to a major political crisis earlier
this year.


The new interim government has vowed to clean up Bangladesh's
corrupt political system before holding rescheduled elections
before the end of 2008.


Zia's BNP led a four-party coalition government until last
October.

