

Prime Minister Shinzo Abe pledged Sunday to raise the issue of
Japanese citizens kidnapped by North Korea when he meets US
President George W. Bush at Camp David this week.


"I want to discuss with President Bush the importance of
resolving the abduction issue," Abe told the relatives of kidnap
victims.


"It is my responsibility and mission to make every one of you
live peacefully and calmly. The world should cooperate in
tackling international human rights issues," the premier added.


Relatives of a Romanian, a Thai and South Koreans suspected of
being abducted and taken to North Korea were among those
attending a lunch meeting with Abe.


The Japanese premier, who has built his political career on
taking a tough stance against the communist state, will hold
talks with Bush on Friday during his first visit to the United
States since taking office last September.


Bush expressed support for Abe's position on abductions when they
met on the sidelines of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation
forum in Hanoi last November.


Japan has refused to fund an international deal to supply North
Korea with energy in exchange for its nuclear disarmament unless
there is progress on the abduction issue.


In September 2002, North Korean leader Kim Jong-Il admitted to
kidnapping 13 Japanese in the 1970s and 1980s to train spies in
Japanese language and culture.


Pyongyang says eight of them are dead, but Tokyo believes more
Japanese nationals were kidnapped and are still alive in the
North.


Japan has imposed sweeping economic sanctions on the North and
refused to loosen them until the kidnapping row is resolved.

