

Several thousand Romanians gathered Sunday on Constitution Square
in the centre of Bucharest to show their support for Traian
Basescu after parliament suspended the president on Thursday.


Non-governmental organisations called the gathering but opponents
of Basescu, including the Social Democrats who led the move to
impeach him, accused his Democratic Party of orchestrating it.


The protesters, including some who had traveled to the capital by
bus from other provinces, chanted Basescu's name and carried
placards saying "Basescu is an elected president" and "Down with
the mafia."


Basescu, who remains the country's most popular politician, was
expected to address the crowd later Sunday.


Over a thousand police officers were on standby at the square to
prevent any potential violence.


This was the second protest in support of Basescu following
another one Thursday afternoon, also in central Bucharest,
shortly after the president's suspension was announced.


Basescu then told thousands of supporters in front of the
university: "We will see each other at the polls," without saying
if he meant new presidential elections or a referendum that is to
be held within a month to confirm his impeachment.


The suspended president announced Friday that he would not
resign, as promised earlier, but would leave it to the people to
decide whether or not to impeach him. Parliament will set a date
for the referendum, which Basescu said would take place on May
20, on Monday.


The Social Democrats have criticised the protests saying they
were of an "electoral" nature and thus "illegal" before the
campaign is officially launched.


Following the constitution, Social Democrat Nicolae Vacaroiu has
given up his post as head of the Senate to act as interim
president until the referendum.

