

Iran said on Sunday that it had "no clues" to solve the mystery
of a former FBI agent reported by the United States to have
disappeared on its southern island of Kish, the Fars news agency
reported.


Washington has said that Robert Levinson, who according to US
reports was making a documentary, disappeared after travelling to
the Gulf resort island in March and has expressed frustration on
the lack of information from Tehran.


"They have made a claim and we are following up the issue. So far
there have been no clues over the arrest or presence of the FBI
agent in Iran," Intelligence Minister Gholam Hossein Mohseni
Ejeie told the news agency.


"But in line with the notes submitted to Iran, we are examining
the issue."


The United States and Iran, arch foes for a quarter of a century,
have no diplomatic relations and any contacts are carried out
through the Swiss embassy in Tehran, which represents US
interests.


Washington has repeatedly asked Tehran for information through
the Swiss and last week received a brief official note from Iran
saying it had nothing to offer.


The United States says that it has firm evidence to suggest
Levinson entered Iran and has seen nothing to show he has left
the country.


Ejeie denied speculation that the case of Levinson was linked to
that of Ali Reza Asghari, a former Iranian defence official who
disappared earlier this year in Turkey amid unconfirmed Western
reports he had defected.


"This is not correct," Ejaie told the Fars agency. Iran says that
Asghari may have been kidnapped by Western intelligence agencies.

