

Croatia on Sunday remembered the victims of a notorious
concentration camp set up by the country's pro-Nazi Ustasha
regime during the Second World War.


"This is a site of terrible crimes which does not allow us to
forget that it happened," said Croatian President Stipe Mesic at
a ceremony held at the Jasenovac memorial complex, broadcast live
on national television.


Mesic warned against any revisionist attempts at history,
alluding to the 1990s after Croatia declared independence when
late autocratic leader Franjo Tudjman had played down the
country's role in the killing of Serbs and Jews during the world
war.


The ceremony marked the 62nd anniversary of an attempted escape
by about 600 camp prisoners and was attended by camp survivors,
members of the victims' families and government representatives.


The ceremony at Jasenovac, known as Croatia's Auschwitz, is held
every year on the Sunday closest to April 22 when the escape took
place.


The camp, some 100 kilometers (60 miles) southeast of Zagreb, was
set up in mid-1941 by Croatia's Ustasha regime, installed after
Hitler overran what was then Yugoslavia. It was dismantled a few
days after the attempted breakout in 1945.


The memorial museum opened last year exhibits the names of about
70,000 people killed at the camp.


But the number of people murdered at Jasenovac -- mainly Serbs,
followed by Jews, Roma and anti-fascist Croatians -- is still
disputed, with estimates ranging between 100,000 by the US
Holocaust Memorial Museum and 700,000 by Belgrade.

