

Double world drivers champion Fernando Alonso believes his
McLaren-Mercedes team have begun bridging the gap in pace too
Ferrari after the opening day's practice in Bahrain.


Despite leading the constructors championship, McLaren have so
far failed to match the speed shown by the Ferrari's of Finnish
driver Kimi Raikkonen and Brazilian Felipe Massa.


Raikkonen was again fastest in both sessions on Friday's practice
day, but Spaniard Alonso, winner in Malaysia last week, still
believes McLaren have stepped closer in terms of race pace.


"Two trouble-free practice sessions where we made positive
progress," said Alonso who ended the day fifth fastest.


"The track was very dirty and continued to improve throughout the
session. We spent our time perfecting the set-up and evaluating
the tyres.


"I completed some long runs and all in all I think we are closer
to the Ferraris than we have been so far this season on a Friday,
but it's a long weekend so we will see what happens."


Those sentiments were echoed by Alonso's rookie teammate Briton
Lewis Hamilton. The 2006 GP2 Champion, who ended the afternoon
session second fastest 0.013 seconds behind Raikkonen, was
pleased with the cars performance.


"It has been a positive session today," said Hamilton. "In the
first practice the track was very dirty and slippery so there was
no point spending too much time looking at the set-up. In the
second session we began our fine-tuning and completed a couple of
long runs.


"I think I was quicker and more consistent than previously in the
long runs which is positive and there is definitely more to come.
We now have quite a bit of data to look at but so far so good."

