

UN chief Ban Ki-moon said Friday he was sending his top legal
adviser to Lebanon to help set up a proposed international court
to try suspects in the murder of ex-premier Rafiq Hariri.


"I intend to dispatch Nicolas Michel to Lebanon next week to
offer his legal assistance to the Lebanese government and
political leaders to help" bring rival parties together to set up
the UN-backed court, Ban told reporters.


"We want to assist the Lebanese ... in a spirit of national
dialogue, reconciliation," added Michel, the UN undersecretary
general for legal affairs, stressing the UN did not intend to
impose the tribunal on the country.


Hariri and 22 others were killed in a massive bomb blast in
February 2005 in Beirut. An initial UN inquiry report implicated
Damascus in the slaying but Syria has denied involvement.


Wednesday Ban's office said the UN chief was studying a letter he
received from Lebanese Prime Minister Fuad Siniora regarding the
tribunal.


Lebanese officials said the letter asked Ban to bring the issue
before the 15-member UN Security Council "to study alternative
ways and means to establish quickly the international tribunal."


With the backing of 70 Lebanese lawmakers, Saad Hariri, the son
of the murdered Lebanese leader, wants the UN Security Council to
bypass the political paralysis in Lebanon over setting up the
tribunal.


But Lebanon's pro-Syrian opposition objects to the way the pro-
Western Beirut government has handled plans to create the court
under UN auspices. It has so far managed to block all moves to
set up the court.


Asked whether his mission was a last-ditch attempt to get the
Lebanese to agree on the tribunal before the Security Council
decides to take over the issue, Michel said: "Everybody
understands that there is an element of time."

