

The Security Council on Friday strongly condemned the suicide
bomb attack on Iraq's parliament complex and called on all states
to help Baghdad bring the perpetrators to justice.


"The Security Council condemns in the strongest terms the
terrorist attack in Iraq that targeted the democratically elected
Council of Representatives," said Britain's UN envoy Emyr Jones
Parry, this month's council chair.


His statement reaffirmed that "terrorism ... constitutes one of
the most serious threats to international peace and security ...
any acts of terrorism are criminal and unjustifiable, regardless
of their motivation."


Thursday's bombing killed one parliamentarian and wounded 22
other people in the Iraqi legislature's cafeteria, the US
military said on Friday, revising the previous day's toll down
from eight reported dead and 23 wounded.


The 15-member Security Council meanwhile reminded all states of
their obligations under international law and relevant UN
resolutions to cooperate with Iraqi authorities "to bring the
perpetrators, organizers, financiers and sponsors of these
reprehensible acts of terrorism to justice."


It reiterated its resolve to "combat all forms of terrorism, in
accordance with its responsibilities under the Charter of the
United Nations."


But it made clear that states must ensure that any measures taken
to combat terrorism comply with their obligations under
international law, in particular international human rights,
refugee and humanitarian law.


Thursday, UN chief Ban Ki-moon also slammed the suicide attack
against the Iraqi parliament complex, which was claimed in an
Internet statement Friday by an alliance of Sunni groups headed
by Al-Qaeda in Iraq.


The bombing occurred despite a massive US-Iraqi security
crackdown launched in the capital two months ago and just hours
after an attack on a Baghdad bridge that left 10 people dead.

