

North Korea promised Friday to honour a multinational deal on
scrapping its nuclear programme once it can confirm that a
dispute over millions of dollars in frozen assets has been
settled.


"There is no reason to be pessimistic. We will be faithful to
this agreement if the Americans respect its clauses," Kim Son-
gyong, deputy director of the foreign ministry's European
department, told AFP in an interview in Pyongyang.


"We will respect our commitment as it is written in the February
13 agreement. No more and no less," he said.


His remarks came several hours after the North's foreign
ministry, in a statement on the official Korean Central News
Agency, said it would "confirm soon" whether funds in a Macau
bank have been unfrozen as the United States has promised.


The announcements raised hopes of progress for implementation of
the February 13 six-nation denuclearisation agreement, one day
before the deadline for the first step -- the shutdown of the
Yongbyon reactor.


North Korea had refused to move until it got back its 25 million
dollars.


The statements were Pyongyang's first response to US
announcements this week that the funds in the Macau bank, frozen
since 2005 on accusations of money laundering and counterfeiting,
were available for collection.


"We will assume our responsibilities as soon as the 25 million
dollars frozen in Macau are in our hands," Kim told AFP and Le
Monde.


The United States, South Korea and Japan -- three of the nations
in the talks that reached February's breakthrough deal -- all
acknowledged that Saturday's deadline cannot be met.


But the United States wants the North at least to make a start,
by inviting in UN atomic inspectors.


After visiting Tokyo and Seoul, US chief nuclear envoy
Christopher Hill arrived in Beijing Friday for more
consultations. He has said he is willing to meet his North Korean
counterpart Kim Kye-Gwan there if Kim requests it.


Hill responded cautiously to North Korea's statements, saying, "I
heard that about a month ago."


But Kim defended North Korea's stance saying, "To begin with, we
must absolutely respect the principle that actions and words must
be simultaneous."


"At the current time, the money isn't in our hands," Kim said.
"There has only been a verbal statement (by the United States)
which we were in the midst of verifying. But there is no reason
to be pessimistic."


He declined to confirm a report by South Korea's Yonhap news
agency that North Korean officials had already arrived in Macau
to collect the money in person.


Yonhap quoted a source saying Macau financial authorities will
soon approve proxies needed to withdraw money from North Korean
accounts held under aliases, or in the names of people who have
since died.


US and South Korean officials say the communist state, which
tested its first atomic bomb last October, has stockpiled enough
plutonium from the reactor for another six to 12 weapons and they
want to cut off the supply.


The North Korean official said the US willingness to negotiate
showed the benefits of the nuclear test.


Kim said the February 13 deal "would have been unthinkable last
year." US President George W. Bush famously denounced the
communist state in 2002 as part of an "axis of evil" alongside
Iran and Saddam Hussein's Iraq.


"The Bush administration fooled itself greatly by thinking that
it would impose coercive measures on us. The October 9 nuclear
test firmly and clearly expressed our mistrust towards the
unprecedented hostility of the United States against us," Kim
said.


"We would have easily had the fate of Iraq if we had not been
strong in our defence planning," he said.


As the clock ticked to the nuclear deadline, the other nations
involved in the six-way talks played down expectations.


South Korean Foreign Minister Song Min-Soon said earlier Friday
that as long as all sides remain committed, "it's important not
to be bound to the date but to carry out the agreed steps in a
stable way."


The US State Department Thursday also said the deadline may be
extended. Japan, which has tense relations with North Korea,
called for Pyongyang to move as soon as possible.


China, which is the North's main ally, called on all sides to
work to resolve the dispute.

