

Sri Lanka fast bowler Lasith Malinga is doubtful for the World
Cup Super Eights match against champions Australia, according to
team manager Michael Tissera.


Malinga, 23, missed the six-wicket Super Eights win against New
Zealand at Grenada's National Stadium on Thursday after damaging
left ankle ligaments during a training session.


With Sri Lanka needing one win from their two remaining Super
Eights games to be certain of a semi-final spot, it now looks as
if Malinga will miss Monday's match against Australia in a bid to
make sure he's fit to face minnows Ireland - who suffered a nine-
wicket thrashing Friday by the title-holders - two days later.


"He's been walking and feeling much better," Tissera told
reporters Friday. "I don't know whether we will risk him for that
game (against Australia).


"He's doubtful. It may be better to keep him for the game against
Ireland.


"When he was first diagnosed they said he would be out for a week
so we don't know yet."


Malinga, whose distinctive, slingy action makes him hard for
batsmen to face has made a major impact upon world cricket during
the past year.


At the World Cup he has so far taken 15 wickets in six matches at
an average of 14.26.


Only Australia's Glenn McGrath, who has played one game more, is
ahead of him in the tournament standings with 18 wickets at 13.05
each while Malinga's Sri Lanka team-mate Muttiah Muralitharan
also has 15 wickets, at 17.13.


Despite Malinga's absence, his side enjoyed a comfortable win
against title rivals New Zealand.


Left-arm quick Chaminda Vaas (three for 33) and Muralitharan
(three for 32), two of the stars of Sri Lanka's 1996 World Cup-
winning team, did the damage with the ball in a game their team
won with 29 balls to spare.

