

The Security Council has agreed to send a fact-finding team to
Kosovo and Belgrade ahead of a debate on a UN plan to grant
supervised independence to the breakaway Serbian province,
Russia's UN envoy said Friday.


Vitaly Churkin said the 15-member council endorsed Moscow's
proposal to send a team to Belgrade and Pristina to take stock of
the situation on the ground and conduct a "comprehensive review
of implementation" of Council Resolution 1244 on Kosovo's future
status.


Security Council 1244, adopted in 1999, authorizes the United
Nations to facilitate a political process to determine the future
status of Kosovo, a Serbian province with a predominantly ethnic
Albanian population.


"We are very pleased that this Russian initiative has been
approved by the Security Council," Churkin told reporters, adding
that the Council mission would leave for the area "before the end
of the month."


He said the team would, on its way to Belgrade, stop over in
Brussels to hear a report from NATO and the European Union on
Kosovo developments.


Russia, a veto-wielding member of the Security Council and an
ally of Serbia, has objected to the independence proposal
unveiled by UN chief mediator Martti Ahtisaari late last month.


Serbia is also adamantly opposed to independence for a province
it regards as the cradle of its civilization.


The Ahtisaari plan, which has been endorsed by Kosovo Albanians,
the European Union and the United States, is to be debated in the
coming weeks, probably next month, by the Security Council, which
must decide Kosovo's future status.


Kosovo has been administered by a UN mission since mid-1999,
after a NATO bombing campaign ended the brutal crackdown by
Serbian forces against the province's ethnic-Albanian majority.


Some 10,000 ethnic Albanians died and hundreds of thousands fled
Kosovo during the 1998-1999 conflict.

