

Exiled Russian multi-millionaire Boris Berezovsky on Friday
tempered a call for the use of "force" to overthrow President
Vladimir Putin, saying he was not advocating violence.


The tycoon issued a statement to "clarify" his comments in a
newspaper interview hours after the British Foreign Office
condemned the remarks and Russian authorities renewed a call for
his extradition.


"Elections are not a viable means of ensuring democratic change
in Russia. Therefore I do support using other methods to push for
a change back towards democracy," he said.


"However, I wish to make very clear that all of these methods
would be bloodless ... I do support direct action. I do not
advocate or support violence."


In an interview with the Guardian newspaper Friday he was quoted
saying: "We need to use force to change this regime.


"It isn't possible to change this regime through democratic
means. There can be no change without force, pressure."


Asked if he was effectively fomenting revolution, he said: "You
are absolutely correct."


The British government has repeatedly refused Russian requests to
extradite Berezovsky.


In response to his comments in the Guardian, a Foreign Office
spokesman said: "We deplore any call for the violent overthrow of
a sovereign state.


"We expect everyone living or working in or visiting the UK,
whatever their status, to obey our laws."


In Moscow, Russian authorities immediately renewed a call for
Britain to extradite Berezovsky.


"Calls for the violent overthrow of the political authorities are
sufficient grounds to undertake the relevant measures," Foreign
Minister Sergei Lavrov was quoted as saying by the Interfax news
agency.


Berezovksy, a close associate of former Russian president Boris
Yeltsin, fled his homeland in 2000 and obtained political asylum
in Britain in 2003.

