

European stock markets posted solid gains Friday, with the energy
sector in particular lifted by higher crude oil prices, dealers
said.


Gains elsewhere were capped however by investor caution ahead of
a meeting of Group of Seven (G7) finance ministers and central
bankers over the weekend.


London's FTSE 100 index of leading shares added 0.72 percent to
6,462.40 points, Frankfurt's DAX 30 gained 0.97 percent to
7,212.07 and in Paris the CAC 40 rose by 0.70 percent to 5,789.34
points.


The DJ Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone blue chip shares won 0.87
percent to 4,317.35 points.


The euro stood at 1.3519 dollars after earlier hitting 1.3552
dollars, its highest level in more than two years, on
expectations of rising eurozone interest rates, dealers said.


As European markets closed, the Dow Jones Industrial Average had
gained 0.20 percent to 12,578.32 in New York but the tech-rich
Nasdaq Composite was off by 0.15 percent at 2,476.58.


The broad Standard and Poor's 500 index was essentially unchanged
at 1,449.01 points.


In Asia, Tokyo's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares tumbled 1.01
percent to close at 17,363.95 points earlier in the day. Hong
Kong's key Hang Seng Index closed down 0.19 percent at 20,340.97.


Japanese investors waited nervously to see whether G7 ministers
would discuss the weakness of the yen this weekend in Washington,
analysts said.


In Europe, heavyweight energy companies were boosted by rising
crude oil prices, which increase their profits.


The price of Brent North Sea crude hit a seven-month high of
69.59 dollars a barrel on concerns that current oil supplies
might be insufficient to meet demand, traders said.


In London, shares in energy giant BP leapt 2.31 percent to 576
pence, and Anglo- Dutch peer Royal Dutch Shell saw its 'B' shares
jump 2.30 percent to 1,737 pence.


In Paris, shares in oil and gas group Total added 1.40 percent to
53.68 euros.


A leading Frankfurt performer was SAP, the world's biggest maker
of business software, whose share price rocketed 2.94 percent to
35.39 euros after broker Merrill Lynch repeated its 'buy' rating
on the stock.


"There are some far-flung rumours going around of a possible
takeover from Microsoft, but this reiteration has been the main
event today for SAP shares," one anonymous Frankfurt trader said.


SAP shares had slumped in previous sessions on other rumours that
the company would soon issue a profit warning.


BASF shares led gainers in Frankfurt, soaring by 3.22 percent to
89.22 euros on speculation the chemical company could receive a
takeover offer from the US group DuPont.


In Amsterdam, meanwhile, the AEX index gained 0.92 percent to
523.68 points, the Swiss SMI added 0.7 percent to 9,177.48, in
Milan the SP/Mib gained 0.61 percent to 43,016, in Madrid the
Ibex-35 rose by 0.55 percent to 14,965.3 and in Brussels the
Bel-20 closed 0.29 percent higher at 4,581.26 points.

