

Guinea-Bissau's new prime minister Martinho Ndafa Cabi vowed to
tackle the country's political and economic woes after he was
sworn in Friday.


Cabi was named prime minister of the tiny west African country
after a three week-long political deadlock sparked by a no
confidence vote in the former government.


"My priority is to open dialogue with all political movements so
as to have broad consensus on the key issues," he told a news
conference after his was sworn in.


Under mounting pressure, President Joao Bernardo Vieira named
Cabi, of the left- wing African Party for the Independence of
Guinea-Bissau and Cape Verde (PAIGC), as prime minister on
Tuesday.


Cabi replaced Aristide Gomes who resigned last month after losing
a confidence vote on March 19, amid criticism of state spending
and the failure to clear pay arrears to civil servants.


Viera, who has struggled to govern the poverty-stricken country
since returning to power in July 2005.


Cabi promised to resolve the pay arrears crisis and to deal with
problems dogging the country's cashew nuts sector, the main
currency earner which is reeling under falling international
prices.


Vieira toppled in 1999 after 19 years of iron-fisted rule,
returned from exile to run for the presidency as an independent
in 2005.


He has since had problems securing support from a parliament
dominated by three political parties not aligned to him.


Vieira promised to "work hand-in-hand" with Cabi's government.


A former energy and defence minister, Cabi also pledged to create
conditions for free and fair parliamentary elections due next
year.


He is the third prime minister in less than two years of Vieira's
tenure. Carlos Gomes Junior was sacked only a few months into
office following a series of disputes with Vieira in this nation
whose history is chequered by coups and military dictatorships.


Guinea-Bissau, which won independence from Portugal in 1974, is
the world's fifth poorest nation, according to the UN.

