

The UN-backed tribunal prosecuting suspects in the 1994 Rwandan
genocide ordered the transfer of a case to a national court for
the first time Friday.


The International Crimininal Tribunal for Rwanda (ICTR) ordered
that Michel Bagaragaza, the former head of Rwanda's national tea
industry who is accused of involvement in the mass slaughter, be
tried by a court in the Netherlands.


"The chamber orders the case of prosecutor v. Michel Bagaragaza
to be referred to the authorities of the Kingdom of the
Netherlands," the tribunal said in a ruling.


It ordered its prosecutor to hand over evidence supporting the
indictment to Dutch prosecutors within 30 days.


Bagaragaza, currently detained at the UN's detention facilities
in The Hague, surrendered to the court in 2005 and pleaded not
guilty to three genocide and related counts stemming from his
alleged participation in the 1994 slaughter of some 800,000
people.


Bagaragaza is alleged to have conspired with tea factory
employees and others in the murders of hundreds of Tutsis.
Minority Tutsis and moderate Hutus were massacred by Hutu
extremists during the slaughter.


Tutsis had sought refuge from the massacres near a tea factory
and a cathedral in Rwanda's northern Gisenyi region, according to
the ICTR indictment.


Bagaragaza is also accused of having helped create, fund, train
and arm radical Hutu Interahamwe militia, which have been blamed
for most of the killings, by instructing tea factory employees to
give them fuel, weapons and ammunition.


Bagaragaza had been close to former Rwandan president Juvenal
Habyarimana whose death in a plane crash on April 6, 1994,
sparked the 100-day killing spree.


The Tanzania-based ICTR, formed in 1994, has thus far convicted
28 suspects and acquitted five.

