

The US Army is charging into the world of computer gaming in the
hope of finding prime recruits among the legions of young players
of online battle games.


The US Army will spend an estimated two million dollars in the
coming year to sponsor a channel at the Global Gaming League
(GGL) website, a popular spot for Internet computer game lovers.


"We saw a lot more opportunity to bond with gamers and meet them
on their turf," said McCann World Group vice president Anders
Ekman, who is handling the project for the army.


A first-person shooter game based on the army training manual
will be a centerpiece of the channel, which will feature
independent game titles in the same genre, according to Ekman.


The "America's Army" game was released about five years ago and
ranks in the top 10 most popular computer games of its kind,
Ekman said.


"This is a way for the army to extend the impact of a title they
have done well with and reach an increasingly challenging
audience to reach," Ekman said of the alliance with GGL.


The army's online push is aimed at gamers in the cherished
recruiting age range of 17 to 24.


The army's channel at GGL will launch in early June. Play at the
channel will be "laddered," with winners moving up in rankings
and top players given shots at cash prizes in an "Elite Forces"
championship.


Play at the channel will be free, but agreeing to "additional
contact from the army" comes with signing up as a player.


"It has got to pay off for the army," Ekman told AFP, saying the
future of the channel hinges on its effect on the army's public
image and recruiting efforts.


The army's campaign to adapt to Internet culture includes having
a profile page on popular social networking website MySpace.


"There is a huge future out there for the army with marketing to
the digital generation," Ekman said. "There is much more to
come."

