

The OSCE and Uzbekistan should strengthen ties to help ensure
stability and guard against terrorism, the organisation's
chairman said Friday during a visit.


The visit by Miguel Angel Moratinos, also Spain's foreign
minister, to the central Asian nation came ahead of a planned
European Union vote on whether to continue sanctions against
Uzbekistan.


Moratinos said the Organisation for Security and Co-operation in
Europe and Uzbekistan would mutually benefit from increased
cooperation.


"We can support Uzbekistan as it furthers its goals of stability
and prosperity," he said.


The chairman named security as one area of cooperation, and
pointed to an OSCE workshop last month on improving travel
document security in Uzbekistan.


"We hope to continue working together in this field in order to
address other issues such as constructively dealing with threats
posed by terrorism," he said.


Moratinos met with Uzbek President Islam Karimov and
representatives from nongovernmental organisations during his
stay.


The European Union is to decide in May whether to continue
sanctions against Uzbekistan, put in place following the bloody
repression of the 2005 Andijan uprising.


Non-governmental organisations and journalists who witnessed the
crackdown said between 500 and 1,000 people died, including many
civilians. Uzbek authorities only recognise 187 victims, mainly
said to be "terrorists" and members of the security forces.


The EU has called for an independent inquiry into the crackdown
in return for lifting the sanctions. EU representatives visited
with Uzbek officials earlier this month.

