

Norway's government said Friday it would toughen ethical rules
governing investments in its giant state Pension Fund, excluding
rogue states such as Myanmar in a bid to make the world a better
place.


The fund, which contains nearly all of the state's revenues from
the country's booming oil industry, may exclude bonds from
countries targetted by UN sanctions or other international
initiatives supported by Norway, Finance Minister Kristin
Halvorsen said.


"The EU has imposed sanctions against Myanmar and the state bonds
issued by Myanmar will as a result be excluded," she said as she
presented a white book on the Pension Fund.


"We want to use our fund to influence the world to head down a
better path," she said.


The fund, which invests in stocks and bonds and is one of the
richest in the world, was worth more than 236 billion euros (320
billion dollars) at the end of 2006. It is destined to finance
future pension requirements.


Ethical guidelines from the government already bar the Pension
Fund from investing in "particularly inhumane" weapons
manufacturers and in companies known to be involved in large-
scale human rights violations, corruption, or environmental
pollution.


A total of 22 companies have been barred from the list, including
arms producers such as Boeing, EADS, Thales, Safran, Northrop and
BAE Systems, as well as the world's largest retailer Wal-Mart
which is accused of violating employees' human rights.


Earlier this week, the government announced it was divesting the
fund's stake in DRD Gold of South Africa because the company is
polluting at a gold mine in Papua New Guinea.

