

Riders saddling up for this Sunday's Paris-Roubaix one-day
classic have been warned to avoid the sides of the treacherous
Arenberg forest section of the race.


The Arenberg is one of the most notorious and controversial
cobblestoned sections of the 259km race, and has caused numerous
and near career-ending crashes since first introduced in 1968.


Major renovation work was carried out on the Arenberg
cobblestones last year, and recent work on the sides of the road
has reduced the field's scope for choice.


The cyclists still left in the race known as the 'Hell of the
North' at the 163.5km mark, where the 2.4km Arenberg section
starts, have effectively been advised to stay in the middle on
the cobbles.


"The terrain on the left hand side of the cobblestones will be
impassable," race director Jean-Francois Pescheux told AFP after
a late inspection of the course.


The terrain on the sides of the Arenberg will be filled in with
earth in a bid to deter cyclists from trying to ride on the
sides, a tactic often employed in a bid to avoid the
cobblestones.


As they did last year, organisers will erect barriers on the
whole right hand side of the forest, behind which the public will
be able to stand.


The left hand side will have barriers for the first 300 and last
300 metres.


Former three-time winner Johan Museeuw, dubbed the 'Lion of
Flanders', famously crashed at Arenberg in 1998. As he fought off
gangrene and the threat of losing his leg, he threatened to quit
the sport.

