

Two strong earthquakes shook Mexico early Friday, sparking gas
fires in Mexico City and sending residents into the streets
around the sprawling capital and in the southern city of
Acapulco.


The first quake, which lasted less than a minute, was of 6.2
magnitude and struck at 12:41 am (0541 GMT), according to
authorities.


The second hit two hours later, at 3:43 am (0843 GMT),
registering a 5.4 magnitude.


Both quakes were centered in Guerrero state, just off the Pacific
coast.


The shaking sent residents and tourists running into the streets
in the coastal tourist enclave of Acapulco and in various
neighborhoods of Mexico City.


Both cities experienced blackouts, and temporary losses of cell
and land-line phone service.


Civil Protection forces were patrolling parts of the capital,
which was hit hard by a 1985 quake that left 35,000 dead.


Two buildings, one of the under construction, were damaged,
authorities said. The quake triggered two gas fires that were
quickly extinguished, authorities said.


"The city is calm after the two quakes while we continue to
survey buildings and, with the light of day, learn if there is
damage," a spokesman for the city's Public Safety Department told
AFP.


"Year after year we repeat it. We have to get used to the fact
that we live in a seismic zone. Fortunately, from these quakes,
were have no dead to mourn," he said.


In 1985, in addition to those killed, more than a million people
were left without electricity for more than three days and 32
subway stations were severely damaged.

