

A Moroccan autonomy proposal for the disputed territory of
Western Sahara, submitted this week to the United Nations, is
open for negotiation, Interior Minister Chakib Benmoussa said
Friday.


"The Kingdom of Morocco firmly believes today that the solution
to the Sahara dispute can only come from negotiations," the
official text of the proposal distributed to reporters here
Friday said.


Benmoussa, who led most of the delegations who visited about 30
countries to explain the proposal before it was submitted to the
UN, said: "Our proposal did not enter into the details, leaving
for the negotiation many other important questions."


Morocco annexed the desolate but phosphate-rich northwest African
territory after the withdrawal of the region's former colonial
power Spain and neighbour Mauritania in the 1970s, settling it
with around 300,000 Moroccans in 1975.


A war ensued with the Algerian-backed Polisario Front, an armed
group which contested Rabat's sovereignty, ending only in 1991
with a UN-brokered ceasefire.


But the Polisario Front has submitted a completely different plan
to the UN and rejected the Moroccan proposal, upholding "the
right of the (local) people for self-determination."


The Moroccan proposal states: "The Sahara populations will
themselves run their affairs democratically, through legislative,
executive and judicial bodies enjoying exclusive powers."


It also stipulates that the "executive authority in the Sahara
autonomous region shall lie with a head of government, to be
elected by the regional parliament. He shall be invested by the
King."


And it adds that the Moroccan state will keep exclusive
jurisdiction over "the attributes of sovereignty, especially the
flag, the national anthem and the currency", as well as national
security, external defence and the defence of territorial
integrity.

