

Briton Jenson Button has braced himself for a third long weekend
at the back of the grid following a poor practice session at the
Sakhir circuit near Manama on Friday.


Button's disastrous season hit a new low when his engine failed
after an hour of the afternoon session leaving the former
Williams driver in last place and some 2.5 seconds behind the
Ferrari of Finn Kimi Raikkonen who set the day's fastest time.


"The car is the same as it was in Malaysia so it would have been
unrealistic for us to expect any improvement on where we were
last week," said Button, who recorded his first ever Grand Prix
victory last year.


"However we aren't as slow as we appeared today because I only
had the chance to run on old tyres in the second session before I
had the engine failure.


"There is still work we can do on the balance to make the car a
little bit better for tomorrow, but we have a lot to do and it's
going to be another long hard race."


There was more optimism from Button's Honda teammate Brazilian
Rubens Barrichello who finished the day 11th fastest.


However Barrichello was quick to acknowledge that his team still
needed to complete a lot of work in order to be competitive for
Saturday's qualifying session and Sunday's race.


"Obviously we saw a good improvement towards the end of the
afternoon and right at the close of the session the car was
better than it has been at any other time today," Barrichello
said.


"We worked a lot on the car during the two sessions and made some
major changes but there is a long way to go yet because we are
nowhere near where we need to be with the balance."

