

Russia coach Guus Hiddink has denied claims he will take over
from Jose Mourinho as Chelsea boss next season.


Speaking to BBC programme Football Focus, Hiddink said he was
fully focussed on guiding Russia to Euro 2008 in Austria and
Switzerland.


Speculation has been rife this season that Portuguese boss
Mourinho has fallen out with Chelsea's billionaire Russian owner
Roman Abramovich.


But Hiddink said: "It's not an issue, I work with a lot of
satisfaction where I am now.


"I still have a year on my contract with Russia. I hope we
qualify for Euro 2008 and that I can go on with Russia."


Hiddink, who was also linked with succeeding Sven-Goran Eriksson
when the Swede announced he would not coach England after last
year's World Cup finals, poured cold water on the speculation,
dismissing it as gossip related to the fact that he coaches
Abramovich's homeland.


"I am linked with the job because Roman Abramovich is the owner
of Chelsea and he is Russian and I am the Russia coach," said the
former PSV Eindhoven and Australia coach, who also guided South
Korea to the 2002 World Cup semi-finals.


"Let's be frank and open, every now and then I do talk to him -
but not about the Chelsea job.


"Chelsea are doing really well in the Champions League and it's
not an issue for me, nor is it for them."


Russia are top of the Euro 2008 qualifying group 5, in which
England sit in third place.


Chelsea are still on course for an unlikely quadruple this season
under Mourinho. Having already secured the League Cup, they are
into the semi-finals of both the FA Cup and Champions League and
sit just three points behind Manchester United at the top of the
English Premiership.

