

Georgia's parliament voted Friday to set up a new government in
the breakaway region of South Ossetia to rival the area's
Russian-backed separatist administration.


The Georgian government hopes the move will speed up efforts to
bring the region back under central control, but it was decried
as confrontational by both Russia and South Ossetia's rebel
administration.


Parliament voted 160-3 in favour of legislation creating a
provisional administration in the region empowered to "negotiate
a peaceful resolution of the conflict" and "restore
constitutional order in the area."


Georgian officials have said the rebel South Ossetian
administration led by self-declared president Eduard Kokoity is
welcome to help form the provisional government.


Kokoity has rejected any participation in the provisional
government and warned South Ossetians against making contact with
it.


The government appears designed as a vehicle for Dmitry
Sanakoyev, a pro- Georgian former independence fighter who claims
to have been elected as the region's leader last November with
support from both local Georgians and Ossetians.


"Sanakoyev has been chosen by the Ossetian people and agrees to
negotiations with the Georgian side," the leader of Georgia's
ruling National Movement party, Giga Bokeria, told AFP.


Russia's ambassador to Tbilisi, Vyacheslav Kovalenko, told
journalists Wednesday that the move "will not lead to peace in
the region, but will simply trigger a new wave of confrontation."


The US has supported Saakashvili's attempts to reassert control
over rebel regions and praised the new initiative.


South Ossetia broke away from Georgia amid heavy fighting after
the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991. Backed by neighbouring
Russia, the region of about 60,000 has de facto independence and
negotiations over returning it to central control have repeatedly
failed.


A fragile ceasefire has held since the early 1990s, but clashes
in the region are common.

