

The Security Council on Friday unanimously agreed to extend the
mandate of the UN mission in Georgia for six months and endorsed
confidence-building steps between the Georgian government and
Abkhaz separatists.


The 15-member body extended the mandate, which expires Sunday,
until next October 15 and urged the rival sides to immediately
implement measures presented by the "Friends of Georgia" group,
"without conditions."


The Friends of Georgia comprise the United States, Germany,
Britain, France and Russia.


Abkhazia, a sliver of land between the Black Sea and the Caucasus
mountains, broke away from Georgia after fierce fighting in
1992-93 and now has de facto independence.


The UN mission known as UNOMIG -- 121 military observers and 12
civilian police officers -- was established in July 1993 after
the conflict.


Friday's resolution also called on Georgia to ensure that the
situation in Abkhazia's upper Kodori valley" is in line with the
(1994 ceasefire) Moscow agreement and on the Abkhaz side to
"exercise restraint in connection with the Georgian commitments
with regard to the Kodori valley."


It also condemned last month's attack on villages in the upper
Kodori valley, the only part of the breakaway province of
Abkhazia still under Tbilisi's control, and urged all sides "to
extend full support to the ongoing investigation" by a joint
fact-finding team led by UNOMIG.


Last month, Georgia accused Russian combat helicopters of firing
on the Kodori valley villages.


The Abkhazian administration survives largely thanks to support
from Russia, which has provided Russian passports to Abkhazian
citizens and maintains a force of about 1,900 soldiers in the
province.

