

One fifth of the residents of the Somali capital have fled in the
past two months due to fighting between Ethiopian troops and
Islamist militias, the UN refugee agency said Friday.


The UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) said some 208,000
people had left Mogadishu, home to an estimated one million
inhabitants, since February 1, when clashes between the two sides
intensified.


Last weekend, the agency said 124,000 people had fled the
capital, but explained the sharp rise was because they had found
other displaced people in the central Galgudud region, north of
Mogadishu, who had not been accounted for.


Meanwhile, the World Food Progaramme said it was forced to take
320 tonnes of food aid back to Mogadishu after the government
said the consignment had to be inspected before distribution.


The food was destined for some 32,000 people camped in Afgoye,
about 18 kilometres (11 miles) west of the capital, after fleeing
the violence in Mogadishu.


"The 320 metric tonnes of food returned to the capital this week
after the convoy was turned back at a TFG (Transitional Federal
Government) checkpoint," said Stephanie Savariaud, WFP's
spokesman in Nairobi.


The agency urged those involved in the fighting "to give us the
room to do our work and get food aid to people who are in
desperate need," but said it also welcomed government
inspections.


Somalia this month suffered its worst violence of the past 15
years when an Ethiopian offensive against insurgents triggered
four days of battles in Mogadishu, killing at least 1,000
civilians.


Ethiopian forces helped the transitional government force the
Islamists out of Mogadishu at the start of the year.


Somalia has not had an effective government since the ousting of
dictator Mohamed Siad Barre in 1991 touched off a power struggle
that exploded into inter-clan warfare. More than 14 attempts to
restore a functional Somali government have since failed.

