

More than 5,000 anti-presidential demonstrators held an
unauthorized march through the Kyrgyz capital on Friday, raising
tensions a day after a political crisis seemed to have been
defused.


Thousands of protestors followed a truck with a mobile stage past
the Interior Ministry, the secret services' building and
government headquarters, chanting a demand for President
Kurmanbek Bakiyev to step down.


"Look at the numbers we've brought with us -- all the people are
behind us!" opposition parliamentarian Omurbek Tekebayev cried
from the stage.


The march came on the third day of anti-presidential rallies on
the city's central square. Police had earlier warned that
movement elsewhere could lead to a forceful response.


President Kurmanbek Bakiyev has faced opposition in parliament
and on the streets since he came to power in 2005 after a violent
uprising that drove out former veteran president Askar Akayev.


Bakiyev also faced an unexpected defection Friday as presidential
administraton head Myktybek Abduldayev resigned.


Presidential spokesman Dosaly Esenaliyev did not offer a reason,
while opposition supporters claimed Abduldayev wanted to
dissassociate himself from a crackdown on demonstrators they
claimed the president was planning.


Tensions had seemed to abate late Thursday when opposition leader
Felix Kulov softened previous calls for Bakiyev's ouster and said
he would pursue constitutional changes through the parliament.


Turmoil has roiled this mountainous Central Asian state,
strategically located near Afghanistan and host to US and Russian
air bases, since the end of last year.

