

Bosnia has ordered the deportation of hundreds of Muslim
volunteers who came to fight in the 1992-95 war and have now been
stripped of their citizenship, an official said Friday.


Nearly 400 people, most of them of Turkish and Arab origin, had
their citizenship revoked by a review commission looking into the
cases of foreigners who may have obtained Bosnian nationality
improperly.


Citizenship had been granted to foreigners who fought with
Bosnian Muslims against Bosnian Croats and Serbs during the war.


"We initiated deportation procedures for a number of persons from
the list of the review commission, but I cannot speak about the
exact number because operative controls are still ongoing," the
head of the Bosnian government office for foreigners Dragan
Mektic told AFP.


"We will deport persons who jeopardise the country's security,"
he added.


Naturalized Bosnian citizens of Arab origin accuse the
authorities of discrimination.


"This decision is political and has nothing to do with the law.
They do this under international pressure," said Aiman Awad,
spokesman for the association Ensarije, representing some 200
Bosnians of Arab origin.


Eight members of the association had their citizenships revoked,
but Awad said another 50 feared deportation.


"They violated our basic human rights and we intend to fight them
in court. Our only fear is that the judges will also succumb to
pressure," Awad told AFP.


The Bosnian government set up the review commission last year.


The commission includes a representative from NATO and two from
the European Union.


Under Bosnia's 1995 peace agreement, all foreign fighters were
supposed to leave the country, but many stayed and obtained
Bosnian citizenship either on the basis of their army service or
by marrying local women.


Their presence came under the international spotlight after the
September 11, 2001 attacks in the United States, with Washington
urging Bosnia to deport them en masse.

