

A small Bulgarian right-wing party on Friday put five nurses
facing the death penalty in Libya on its list of candidates for
European parliament elections.


Yane Yanev, chairman of the Order, Legality, Justice party, told
AFP he hoped the gesture will give the nurses "a new status that
will help them to be released immediately."


But Bulgarian politicians voiced reservations about the move
which is likely to be rejected by the election authorities.


Foreign Minister Ivaylo Kalfin said the initiative was likely to
further hinder efforts to free the Bulgarian nurses on death row
in Libya, where they have been in prison for eight years.


"This is an attempt by some forgotten politicians to gain
popularity by using the tragedy of our compatriots. This is a
shame," Kalfin said.


A spokesman for the central electoral committee, Biser Troyanov,
said the committee would reject the nominations as under the law,
all candidates must have spent the last two years in Bulgaria or
another EU-member state.


Bulgaria which joined the European Union in January will elect
its 18 deputies to the EU parliament on May 20.


The five nurses and a Palestinian doctor were sentenced to death
twice by a Libyan court -- in May 2004 and again in December 2006
-- on charges of knowingly infecting more than 400 Libyan
children with AIDS-tainted blood.


The six foreigners maintain their innocence and international
health experts have backed their case that the hospital AIDS
epidemic broke out because of poor hygiene.


They are currently appealing the verdict.


In March, the five nurses and another Bulgarian doctor, Zdravko
Georgiev, who was acquitted in 2004 but is still banned from
leaving Libya, agreed to run in the elections.


"This is just a cry for help, nothing else," Georgiev told Darik
radio in an interview. "We catch every straw that might help," he
added.

