

Canada expressed concern Thursday over human rights and
democratic elections in Syria, calling for Damascus to ensure its
laws and practices are "in keeping with its international human
rights obligations."


In a statement Foreign Minister Peter MacKay singled out the
trial of Syrian human rights activist Anwar al-Bunni and other
opposition figures and intellectuals as a point of concern.


"The Government of Canada is very concerned about the outcome of
the trial of Anwar al-Bunni on charges related to his efforts to
build a culture of human rights in Syria and denounce torture in
Syrian prisons.


"We are also concerned about the ongoing trials of opposition
figure Kamal Labwani and intellectuals Michel Kilo, Mahmoud
'Issa, Khalil Hussein and Suleiman al-Shummar," MacKay said.


"Syria must ensure that its domestic laws and practices are in
keeping with its international human rights obligations."


Ottawa urged Damascus to release political prisoners and to
revoke the 44 year- old Emergency Law to improve human rights
protections.


"Syria must also take firm measures to stop arbitrary arrest,
incommunicado detention, torture and cruel, inhuman and degrading
treatment, as well as to investigate allegations of these
practices, prosecute perpetrators and provide remedies for the
victims," MacKay said.


"The Government of Canada is furthermore concerned with the
shortcomings of the Syrian election law, system and process.
Syria should guarantee its citizens the right to genuinely
democratic legislative and presidential elections, as part of a
fully fair and participatory political process, as part of a move
toward providing its citizens freedom, democracy, human rights
and the rule of law."

