

Iraqi Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari arrived here Thursday for
talks on an upcoming international conference on his country's
security, Anatolia news agency reported.


Zebari, on a regional tour to drum up support for the May 3-4
meeting of foreign ministers in the Egyptian resort of Sharm el-
Sheikh, was to meet with his Turkish counterpart Abdullah Gul
late Thursday before leaving Friday morning.


He flew in from Tehran, where he sought to convince Iranian
leaders to attend the conference.


Iran is reluctant to attend the talks, irked that they will be
also attended by world powers, including its arch-foe, the United
States. It would prefer the meeting to comprise only regional
leaders.


Turkish diplomats have said Turkey will participate in the talks
even though there was "resentment" in Ankara over Baghdad's
failure to consult regional countries when choosing Egypt as the
venue. Turkey wanted to host the meeting in Istanbul.


Gul's attendence is uncertain because he is the ruling party's
candidate in Turkey's presidential election, the first round of
which will be held Friday.


The second round is scheduled for May 2, the third for May 9 and
the fourth for May 15.


Turkish-Iraqi relations have recently been strained over Ankara's
accusations that separatist Turkish Kurd rebels enjoy safe haven
in northern Iraq, which is run by the Iraqi Kurds, to whom Zebari
belongs.


The Turkish army earlier this month called for a cross-border
military operation into northern Iraq to clamp down on the rebel
camps.

