

Republican Rudolph Giuliani is favored over Democratic front-
runner Hillary Clinton for the US presidency in three key
electoral states, while ex-vice president Al Gore might be the
Democrats strongest choice for 2008, a new poll showed Thursday.


The Quinnipiac University poll showed that former New York mayor
Giuliani, who is leading the race for the Republican presidential
nomination, would beat Democrat Senator Clinton solidly in
Florida, Ohio and Pennsylvania.


The three populous states are seen as crucial swing states in any
election, with their voters never clearly in the Republican or
Democrat camp.


In Florida, Giuliani topped Clinton -- the wife of former
president Bill Clinton -- 49-41 percent; in Ohio 46-41 percent,
and in Pennsylvania 47-43 percent.


The poll showed that Ohio had switched sides for Giuliani from an
earlier  March survey, but that she held the same against the
Republican in Pennsylvania and gained ground in Florida.


However, the Quinnipiac numbers showed that non-candidate Gore,
who lost the 2000 presidential race to George W. Bush in a
controversial Florida showdown, could do better than Clinton
against Giuliani in those states. Giuliani led the now-global
warming activist 47-43 percent in Florida and the two were tied
at 44 percent each in Pennsylvania.


But Gore trailed Giuliani in Ohio much more, with the poll 47-39
percent for the Republican.


Gore, vice president in the 1990s under Bill Clinton, has
steadfastly maintained he has no intention of running for the
White House again. Instead, he is riding his fame as the creator
of the Oscar-winning global warming documentary "An Inconvenient
Truth."


"Mayor Rudoph Giuliani remains the front-runner, but he and the
entire Democratic field should wonder if Al Gore will become an
inconvenient truth in the 2008 presidential race and go for the
biggest Oscar of them all," said Peter Brown, assistant director
of the Quinnipiac University Polling Institute.

