

A six-storey apartment block collapsed in Turkey's biggest city
Istanbul on Thursday and at least two people were believed
trapped under the rubble, officials said.


"We have information that two people were trapped. There are
signs that they may be alive," Istanbul Governor Muammer Guler
said in televised remarks at the wreckage in Sirinevler district,
on the city's European side.


Rescuers managed to locate one person who was in good condition
and were working to pull him out, fire department official Orhan
Akyildiz said. She was reportedly a small girl.


Residents evacuated the building "to a large extent" about half
an hour before it collapsed after they heard it creaking, but
some might have gone back to collect belongings, Guler told CNN
Turk television earlier.


Istanbul Mayor Kadir Topbas put the blame on construction workers
who damaged the weight-bearing columns of the building while
carrying out the controlled demolition of a neighbouring block.


The building was already damaged by a deadly earthquake that hit
northwestern Turkey in 1999, neighbourhood official Fethi Akatay
told the NTV channel.


Television footage showed rescuers toiling on huge chunks of
concrete atop the wreckage of the building, which was completely
razed to the ground.


Some people wept and shouted for help.


Two people were killed and 28 other people injured when a five-
storey residential building collapsed in February in another part
of Istanbul.


Turkey's construction sector is notorious for its low standards.
Shoddy buildings have been blamed for heavy death tolls in
earthquakes, which frequently rock the country.


Construction companies in Turkey often disregard regulations,
while  authorities fail to enforce the law.

