

Former Germany boss Jurgen Klinsmann revealed on Thursday he is
set to return to coaching and will be spending the summer
considering job offers - from both clubs and countries.


Despite German press reports on Thursday stating Klinsmann had
effectively ruled himself out of coaching English Premiership
champions Chelsea by taking a job with German TV, the 42-year-old
insists he wants to coach again.


Klinsmann will work as an analyst and commentator for pay-TV
channel Arena for the next two years and will fly to Germany from
his home in California for major Bundesliga games.


But the ex-German striker insists he is also ready to coach again
after taking a break having led Germany to third-place at last
year's World Cup on home soil.


"Whatever happens, I want to get back into the coaching game.
We'll have to see whether that happens sooner or later,"
Klinsmann said at a press conference organised by Arena.


He said he has told his new employers he may be taking up a
coaching role in the future after receiving offers "from teams
and from national federations."


"I made sure Arena are aware of that, so if I accepted a coaching
post, our collaboration can be suspended at any time," specified
Klinsmann.


"There are a certain number of proposals from clubs and national
federations on the table, I am going to wait until this summer to
analyse and sort out the offers to make a decision."


Klinsmann would not specify which jobs he is considering, but he
has been tipped to succeed Jose Mourinho at Chelsea.


And the former Tottenham, Inter Milan and Bayern Munich forward
explained why he stood down as German coach, saying he was
"burned out" after two years in charge and needed to "recharge
his batteries".


"It was necessary that I took a break after the World Cup, it was
difficult for my family.


"During the last 10 months, I have enjoyed a normal family life
and I also took time to assess the World Cup."

