

Three heavily armed suspected militants were arrested at a
popular crafts market in the heart of the Indian capital on
Thursday, police said.


Commandos from the police anti-terrorism unit captured the
suspects just outside the crowded Delhi Haat, a favourite
shopping spot for foreign tourists, Deputy Police Commissioner
Alok Kumar said.


"On the basis of specific input we carried out this operation and
arrested them just outside the Delhi Haat," Kumar told reporters.


"Right now we are questioning them on their motives and plans and
all we know so far is that one of them is a Pakistani national,"
Kumar said.


They were carrying military-type RDX explosives, he added.


Other officials said the trio were also armed with hand grenades
and were carrying a large sum of Indian currency when they were
arrested.


Officers said they suspected the three belonged to the banned
Lashkar-e-Taiba pan-Islamic guerrilla group.


The government-funded market is close to the Sarojini Nagar
shopping arcade where a bomb blast just before a major Hindu
festival two years ago killed 62 people and wounded dozens of
others.


Lashkar, which is fighting Indian rule in disputed Kashmir, was
blamed by Indian authorities for the October 29, 2005 attack.


In February, at least 68 people died in the firebombing of a
train travelling from India to Pakistan.


The series of blasts killed mainly Muslims who were travelling
home to Pakistan on the cross-border "Friendship Express" that
links the nuclear-armed South Asian rivals which have fought
three wars, two over Kashmir, since independence in 1947.


The train attack appeared to be aimed at undermining the stop-go
peace process between India and Pakistan launched in 2004,
analysts said.


The Indian government has said that a lasting resolution of its
longstanding enmity with Pakistan hinges on a stop to all cross-
border terrorist attacks on Indian targets.


Pakistan denies any involvement in militant attacks on Indian
soil.

