

An Israeli patrol crossed into southern Lebanon on Thursday and
was forced to end its "violation" after the intervention of UN
peacekeepers, the Lebanese army said.


"Today, a 10-member Israeli enemy patrol crossed the electronic
fence on the Saddani hills, between the towns of Kfarshuba and
Shebaa," a statement said, claiming the troops "entered Lebanese
territory between 50 meters and 100 meters (yards)."


"Army troops in the area went immediately on alert, and a unit
from the UN Interim Force (in Lebanon) intervened and forced the
enemy patrol to withdraw toward the occupied Lebanese Shebaa
Farms," it said.


"A UNIFIL committee started to probe and document the extent of
this violation," said the statement, adding that "a Lebanese army
force took up position in the area" where the Israelis had
entered Lebanon.


Asked about the incident, a UNIFIL officer told AFP "UNIFIL sent
technical experts to acertain the facts" and had "sent
reinforcements to that area to prevent any escalation."


In February, Lebanese and Israeli troops exchanged fire across
the border for the first time in decades, in an incident sparked
by Israeli sappers moving towards the border to clear unexploded
ordnance.


Backed by a beefed up UN force, Lebanese troops moved into the
border area for the first time in decades after the end of
Israel's war with the Lebanese Shiite Muslim Hezbollah last
summer.


The 34-day conflict was sparked by the capture of two Israeli
soldiers in a Hezbollah raid across the border.

