

Beijing Thursday unveiled the route for the 2008 Olympic torch
relay including politically charged visits to Taiwan and Tibet,
where it will be carried to Mount Everest.


The flame will pass through at least 22 cities in five
continents, including capitals such as Paris, London and
Pyongyang, and make scores of stops in China, the announcement
said.


"By ... crossing the five continents and going to new places, the
Beijing 2008 torch relay, will, as its theme says, be a journey
of harmony, friendship and respect to people of different
nationalities, races and creeds," said Jacques Rogge, president
of the International Olympic Committee.


"The world is watching and waiting, eager to see what Beijng and
China has to offer and anticipating what it's going to see
through hosting the games.


"The torch relay will give us all a full taste of this."


Organisers said an attempt would be made to take the flame to the
top of Mount Everest, the world's highest summit, while also
visiting Tibetan capital Lhasa and the region's Shannan
prefecture.


Four American Tibetan activists are currently in police detention
for staging a protest against the relay at Everest base camp on
Wednesday.


The protesters were members of the Washington-based Students for
a Free Tibet who fear that China will seek to whitewash
widespread religious and cultural oppression in the Tibetan
region through the Olympic activities.


China has ruled Tibet since sending troops in to "liberate" the
region in 1951 and has since violently suppressed a number of
uprisings.


During the 130-day torch relay, which will travel 137,000
kilometers (85,000 miles), the flame will also sweep through the
Taiwanese capital of Taipei.


The Taipei leg will come immediately after the Pyongyang and Ho
Chi Minh City stops, and before the flame travels on to Hong Kong
and Macao.


China considers Taiwan parts of its territory, to be retaken by
force if necessary, since their split in 1949 after a civil war.

