

Italian cyclist Michele Scarponi has been targeted by the Italian
Olympic Commitee (CONI) in connection with his implication in the
Operation Puerto doping affair which erupted last May.


CONI this week announced that Tour of Italy winner Ivan Basso,
who has been suspended by his team Discovery Channel, would be
expected at a hearing on May 2 to answer charges on his
implication in the scandal.


Former Astana rider Scarponi, now with the Acqua and Sapone team,
will attend a hearing the same day as Basso but at the earlier
time of 0830 GMT. Basso's hearing is scheduled for 1300 GMT.


The 27-year-old Scarponi won the International Coppi and Bartali
Week stage race at the end of March.


However his future, like that of Basso's, could now be in limbo.


CONI will be taking a closer look at what role, if any, both
riders played in the affair which initially implicated 58
cyclists from a reported total of 200 athletes.


A CONI statement said Thursday said Scarponi had been called to
the hearing "following the reopening of the investigation into
Operation Puerto".


CONI added: "He is suspected of having violated article 2.2 of
the World Anti Doping Code on the use and attempted use of
illegal substances or methods."


Basso, a major favourite for the Tour de France in July, was on
Tuesday suspended by Discovery after the Italian authorities
reopened their own investigation into Operation Puerto.


The affair erupted in May 2006 after a raid on the premises of
Spanish doctor Eufemiano Fuentes.


Madrid police uncovered bags of blood and doping products, along
with codenames of cyclists and documents which pointed to
organised doping.


Investigators in Germany recently confirmed that blood attributed
to Jan Ullrich during Operation Puerto, thanks to a specific but
ultimately inefficient codename, turned out to match a DNA sample
from the German.


Ullrich, the 1997 Tour de France winner, has proclaimed his
innocence and since retired from the sport.

