

England's selectors have handed Marcus Trescothick the chance of
a fresh start with the national side following the stress-related
illness which forced him to pull out of the Ashes tour of
Australia and the World Cup.


The batsman was included Thursday in a 25-man performance squad
for this summer's international matches, which begin next month
with the arrival of the West Indies for Test and one-day series.


Trescothick, who remains one of 12 players contracted centrally
to the England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB), is back in the
squad after making a confident start to the new season with his
county Somerset.


The biggest surprise in the squad is the inclusion of uncapped
Durham paceman Graham Onions.


Middlesex's Owais Shah and Sussex duo Michael Yardy and Matthew
Prior are the other players brought in to supplement the 12
centrally contracted stars and nine others who were with England
at the World Cup.


Members of the performance squad can be withdrawn from county
games at the discretion of new head coach Peter Moores during the
season, although he can also select players from outside the
squad, which is smaller than the 30-man squad named at this time
last year.


Selectors' chief David Graveney explained: "Having five spare
places in the squad will give us the flexibility to add players
who force their way into the England frame through strong
performances in county cricket.


"We obviously welcome competition for places in all disciplines
and are particularly conscious that the squad is currently light
in the area of specialist spin -- Ashley Giles has been omitted
from the squad at this stage due to his injury but could be added
to the squad if he regains match fitness during the season.


"The wicket-keeping position remains a competitive area -- Paul
Nixon and Matt Prior have been included in the squad but will be
aware that they face strong competition from keepers outside of
the squad."


England Performance Squad for summer 2007


Michael Vaughan (Yorkshire), James Anderson (Lancashire), Ian
Bell (Warwickshire), Ravi Bopara (Essex), Stuart Broad
(Leicestershire), Paul Collingwood (Durham), Alastair Cook
(Essex), Jamie Dalrymple (Middlesex), Andrew Flintoff
(Lancashire), Stephen Harmison (Durham), Matthew Hoggard
(Yorkshire), Simon Jones (Glamorgan), Ed Joyce (Middlesex), Jon
Lewis (Gloucestershire), Sajid Mahmood (Lancashire), Paul Nixon
(Leicestershire), Graham Onions (Durham), Monty Panesar
(Northamptonshire), Kevin Pietersen (Hampshire), Liam Plunkett
(Durham), Matthew Prior (Sussex), Owais Shah (Middlesex), Andrew
Strauss (Middlesex), Marcus Trescothick (Somerset), Michael Yardy
(Sussex)

