

The United States is set to receive its first consignment of
prized Indian mangoes in 18 years after lifting a ban, officials
said Thursday.


Commerce ministry officials here said 150 boxes of the famed King
Alphonso and Kessar varieties would depart by air for New York
later on Thursday from the western Indian city of Mumbai.


"This weekend Indian mangoes could be on the breakfast tables of
Americans who fancy the 'king of the fruits,'" a ministry
official told AFP, as Indian customs said it would clear the
consignment for export.


India has been pushing for years to export its mangoes to the
United States since they were banned in 1989 over problems with
pests such as fruit flies and weevils.


But US President George W. Bush and Prime Minister Manmohan Singh
signed a deal in New Delhi in March 2006 to promote trade in
agriculture that paved the way for the mango exports.


The mango is native to India, which grows more than half the
world's output but whose exports amount to just seven percent of
the world mango trade.


Indian export officials say the mangoes are being irradiated in
India to ensure there is no risk of introduction of plant
diseases and pests.


"Bringing Indian mangoes to the United States is just one step in
increasing agricultural trade between the two countries," said US
Ambassador to India David Mulford.


The shipment marked the fulfilment of a pledge by Bush "to open
the American market to India mangoes, an important national
symbol in India," he said in a statement.


Demand for mangoes in the United States is strong, with a market
size estimated at about 250,000 tonnes a year, experts say.

