

European stock exchanges turned in a mixed performance on
Thursday, with London and Frankfurt gaining ground on corporate
news while in Paris sentiment was dented by concerns for the
Spanish housing market.


In London the FTSE 100 index rose 0.12 percent to 6,469.40
points, while in Paris CAC 40 slipped 0.05 percent to finish at
5,944.44. In Frankfurt the Dax rose 0.60 percent to 7,387.02.


The Euro Stoxx 50 index of leading eurozone shares advanced 0.22
percent to close at 4,414.21.


On the currency market the euro lost ground against the dollar
and was trading at 1.3596 dollars late in the day, against 1.3636
on Wednesday.


US shares continued to ride record peaks Thursday morning on
swelling corporate profits, including from oil heavyweight
ExxonMobil which unveiled quarterly profits topping nine billion
dollars.


An improved financial snapshot from struggling automaker Ford was
also welcomed by investors a day after the leading Dow Jones
Industrial Average stock index burst the 13,000-point barrier for
the first time.


At 1514 GMT, the Dow was up 26.66 points, or 0.20 percent, to
13,116.55 after striking a record close of 13,089.89 Wednesday.


The tech-rich Nasdaq composite was up 6.01 points, 0.24 percent,
at 2,553.90.


"Life is good. US equities have been on a tear and the Dow has
rallied 17 out of the last 19 days, closing at a record high,"
said Andrew Busch, a strategist at BMO Capital Markets.


Some analysts warned giddy investors, however, that the stock
market could be due a correction.


"Following yesterday's rally over Dow 13,000 we would expect to
see some consolidation today," said Al Goldman, a chief equity
strategist at AG Edwards.


In London cosmetics group Reckitt Benckiser shot up 5.59 percent
to 2,775 pence after announcing a 63-percent surge in net
earnings.


Royal Bank of Scotland lost 0.64 percent to close at 1,087 pence
as management at Dutch bank ABN Amro appeared to favor Barclays
as a merger partner.


In Paris investors were said to be anxious that current weakness
in the Spanish housing market might spread elsewhere in Europe.


As a result construction firm Bouygues fell 1.70 percent to 58.39
euros while Vinci shed 1.84 percent to finish at 117.20 euros.


Automaker Peugeot fell 0.03 percent to 58.53 euros, gaining
ground during the day after confirming that it would eliminate
4,800 jobs in France through voluntary departures and
retirements.


In Frankfurt pharmaceutical giant Bayer added 1.16 percent to
reach 51.38 euros after releasing solid first quarter financial
results.


Elsewhere there were gains of 0.55 percent to a record 9,481.25
on the Swiss Market Index, 0.20 percent to 43,844 in Milan and
0.36 percent to 4,657.98 in Brussels.


There were declines of 0.31 percent in Amsterdam and 0.06 percent
to 14,611 in Madrid.


In Asia on Thursday, the Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index
of leading shares soared 1.12 percent to close at 17,429.17
points. Hong Kong's key Hang Seng Index closed up 0.64 percent at
20,667.29.

