

An exhibition of more than 60 works by French impressionist
Claude Monet opens this week in New York's biggest retrospective
dedicated to the artist's works in more than 30 years.


The exhibition at the Wildenstein Gallery in Manhattan includes
two paintings that have never been on public display and others
in private collections that have only ever been reproduced in
black and white.


It took more than two years for gallery president Guy Wildenstein
to put together the exhibition, a homage to his late father, the
international art dealer and collector Daniel Wildenstein, who
died in 2001.


"No loan was easy," he told AFP ahead of the exhibition.


"For a museum like Phoenix (in Arizona), which lent us 'Flowering
Arches,' an absolute masterpiece, the highlight of the
exhibition, not having the painting for more than two months is a
real sacrifice," he said.


While around a third of the pictures came from public museums in
cities such as Chicago, New York and Paris, the remainder were
loaned by private collectors, notably American and French owners.


Two works that belong to Monet's heirs have never even been on
public display before, one a portrait of the painter's father
seated in a garden and the other a view of the town of Bordighera
in Italy.


Wildenstein, who now runs the gallery created by his great-
grandfather in 1903, admits that the family name helped when
putting together an exhibition of one of the world's most popular
artists.


"He's a magical painter. What he was able to see in nature,
light, transparency, water... all of that fascinated him and he
knew how to capture it in a way that no-one else could,"
Wildenstein said.


"Cezanne said 'Monet is just an eye. But by God, what an eye!,'"
he added.


The exhibition, which is in aid of breast cancer charities, opens
Friday and runs until June 15.

