

The US communications authority urged Congress in a report this
week to step in to protect children from violent images on
television.


The Federal Communications Commission, which reports to lawmakers
on the need for, legality of and feasibility of such regulation,
delivered its report on Wednesday, a copy of which was obtained
by AFP.


The FCC found that US children spend two to four hours a day in
front of TV screens, and warned that "we agree with the views of
the Surgeon General that there is strong evidence that exposure
to violence in the media can increase aggressive behavior in
children, at least in the short term."


The FCC said that while depicting violence is part of the freedom
of speech guaranteed by the constitution, the Supreme Court can
allow some regulation if it is limited and justified in the
public interest.


The commission said that warnings and parental blocking
strategies were useful but not effective. So it recommended
limiting the time at which programming containing violent images
can be shown.


But the issue of defining violence is not so simple.


"A football game, a 'Road Runner' cartoon, the Holocaust drama
Schindler's List, a The Three Stooges short, an airing of the
evening news with discussion of violent crime, and a science
fiction film such as Star Wars" all could be seen as containing
violence the FCC noted.


But to identify violent images, "for example, such a definition
might cover depictions of physical force against an animate being
that, in context, are patently offensive," it added.

