

Much of western Europe is seeing record temperatures for April
which has led to a growing drought threat in many countries.


With temperatures in northern France well into the upper 20s
Celsius (70s Fahrenheit), the average is more than 10 degrees
Celsius (15 degrees Fahrenheit) above normal for April, according
to Meteo France, the national weather office.


Belgium is having its hottest April since 1830, Germany is having
record amounts of sunshine for April and the British Met Office
said the first 23 days of the month were the warmest since 1945.


France is at the centre of what weather experts have called
"exceptional" circumstances with an anti-cyclone over eastern
Europe and a depression over Spain sending hot air from Africa up
the middle regions of Europe.


"We are getting about 11 hours of sunshine a day, practically
double the average," said Michel Daloz, a Meteo France expert.
"At the same time there has not been a drop of rain over most of
France since the start of the month."


The southeastern city of Lyon has regularly been hitting 30
degrees Celsius (86 Fahrenheit) and is having its hottest April
on record.


The British capital has beaten a 1951 record for the amount of
sunshine in April.


Experts and farmers are now worrying about drought this summer.
"The forecast is for warmer weather in coming months and that is
not a good sign," said Daloz.


The Netherlands has not had rainfall for 33 days, another record,
authorities in southern France are worried that water levels are
seriously below normal, and in Italy there is already a drought
alert which could lead to power shortages this summer.


A drought alert in Spain was recently lifted though after a lot
of spring rainfall.


Amid growing fears over global warming, Experts say average
temperatures have already risen 0.74 degrees Celsius over the
past century and predict that they will rise another four degrees
Celsius by the end of this century.

