

West Indies cricket chiefs would have no hesitation in hiring
another foreign coach to take over from Australian Bennett King
who resigned after the doomed World Cup campaign.


Bruce Aanensen, the West Indies Cricket Board (WICB) chief
executive, said the crucial factor would be ability and not
nationality.


"What we want to do is get the best possible coach for the team
and it really doesn't matter to us where that coach comes from,"
Aanensen told the Caribbean Media Corporation.


"I think if you look at most of the foreign teams, most of them
have coaches that are not local to their establishment. It's the
same thing in the football World Cup, I think that all but four
of the teams in the last World Cup finals had foreign coaches so
to speak.


"So this thing that people have that we must have a local coach,
we must have the best possible coach that can take our cricket
forward and whether is West Indian, English, Australian, New
Zealander as far as I am concerned it doesn't matter."


King became the first foreign coach of West Indies when he
succeeded Gus Logie in 2004.


It was a controversial decision with many in the region insisting
that a local should be put in charge.


Meanwhile, the WICB is scheduled to name a new captain on Sunday
to take over from Brian Lara who retired from the international
game after the team's failure to get to the World Cup semi-
finals.


"A full board meeting is scheduled for Sunday, April 29, in
Barbados. At that time the matter will be addressed," said a WICB
statement.


"The new captain will then join the other selectors on Tuesday,
May 1, 2007 to select the other members of the team.


"The WICB expects that it will be able to release the names of
the players on Wednesday May 2, 2007, after the convenor of
selectors has notified the players."


Ramnaresh Sarwan, Lara's long-time vice-captain, is expected to
be given the job of leading the squad on the tour to England
which gets underway in May.

