

A new Spider-Man film swings into cinemas soon, but an Italian
researcher said on Thursday he was working on a project that
could lead to real-life versions of the comic book character.


Nicola Pugno, a 35-year-old researcher at the Polytechnic
University of Turin, said he has worked on a form of adhesion for
about 10 years that could lead to something like a spider-man
suit.


Like many other researchers, he said he was using the gecko
lizard as an example.


"It's a field that can have very interesting applications in
science, like in space, for example," Pugno said. "An astronaut
could use a suit with a suction- cup adhesion system."


He estimates a suit like that could be constructed in another 10
years.


The gecko's feet are covered with tiny hairs called setae that
allow for strong adhesion to different types of surfaces. Pugno
is seeking to mimic the effect of the setae, though several
problems remain to be worked through.


His suit, he said, is to include extremely fine, sticky filament.


"One of the problems that has arisen is the control of the
adhesion, because remaining attached to a wall is not difficult,"
he said. "All you have to do is attach it with superglue. But
then how do you detach it and re-attach it again?"


A self-cleaning mechanism also has to be developed for the
system, he said.


"A gecko that walks in the sand has to clean his feet after a few
steps," he said.


Despite his work's obvious Spider-Man similarities, Pugno said he
has no particular interest in the hit movies and that science is
what fascinates him. Science fiction, he said, "leads to
nothing."

