

UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon announced Thursday that he will
co-chair the May 3-4 conference in Sharm el-Sheikh, Egypt on
Iraq's reconstruction along with Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri Al-
Maliki.


"The international community should help the Iraqi people and
government to restore peace and security," Ban told reporters
after returning from a trip to Europe and the Middle East.


"I hope that the international community will actively
participate in this international conference," he said.


Ministers from the five permanent members of the United Nations
Security Council, the Group of Eight and Iraq's neighbors are to
meet at the Sharm el- Sheikh resort to try to find ways to end
Iraq's bloodshed.


Iran has not confirmed it will participate.


Ban will remain at the resort after the event to meet cabinet
ministers from Middle Eastern countries, according to a UN
official.


The Sharm el-Sheikh conference is within the framework of the
International Compact with Iraq, launched in Baghdad in July with
UN and World Bank support.


The compact, which has strong support from Washington, has goals
that include Iraq's equal treatment of all its ethnic groups, an
equitable partition of the country's oil export revenues, and
support for the government to fight corruption and practice good
governance.


Asked if support for the compact could give the United States
cover to retreat from Iraq, Ban said: "I think it's not directly
related."


However "as security and freedom and peace will be settled in
Iraq, I hope the United States government and the multinational
force in Iraq will be able to discuss and consider the exit
strategy," he added.


Iraqi Vice President Adel Abdul Mahdi earlier presented at the UN
headquarters an ambitious five-year plan to restore his country's
devastated economy, and called for help from nations to forgive
Iraq's foreign debt and invest in the country.

