

Some 200 inmates of a maximum security Greek prison continued
their protest for a fourth day on Thursday, staying on the
rooftop following a cold and rainy night as riot police looked
on.


On Wednesday, squads of riot police went into the Malandrino
prison, around 200 kilometres (125 miles) northwest of Athens,
cutting off access to the roof.


Authorities asked the inmates, who spent a cold and rainy night
on the roof, to return to their cells, but did not threaten them
with violence.


Trouble in Greece's prison system spread throughout the country
after a young inmate in Malandrino, linked to an Athens bank
robbery shootout in 2006, was allegedly beaten by guards on
Monday.


Hundreds of inmates joined mass protests in another ten prisons
that prompted a countrywide crackdown on Tuesday.


Order was largely restored in prisons in Athens, on the Ionian
island of Corfu, the Aegean island of Crete, the central towns of
Larissa and Trikala, the western city of Patras, the northern
city of Salonika and the northeastern town of Komotini by the end
of Tuesday.


Three inmates were injured in a police operation in the high
security prison of Korydallos in Athens. Police use of tear gas
led to complaints from the local authorities as the prison lies
in a dense city zone.


Four Korydallos prison guards were hospitalised with breathing
problems.


Prisoners in Malandrino made a series of demands for reduced
sentences and longer leave but this was rejected by the Greek
justice ministry.

