

Scandinavian Airlines System (SAS) on Thursday cancelled nearly
all flights in an out of Copenhagen due to continued cabin crew
strike, a spokesperson for SAS- Denmark said.


Some 280 domestic and international flights were cancelled during
the day and 50,000 passengers were so far estimated to have been
hit by the strike that begun Tuesday, Mikkel Londahl told AFP.


"We aim to carry out some European and intercontinental flights
and advice our customers to follow our web-site for updates," he
added.


In total the three day strike has so far cancelled 685 SAS
flights and SAS- Denmark reported it was cancelling another 28
flights on Friday.


The cabin staff walked off the job earlier in the week in what
the Danish labour court ruled to be an illegal strike.


"We are protesting against poor working conditions. Staff want to
be able to influence the planning of holidays and days off,"
union chair Verner Lundtoft Hansen told Danish news agency Ritzau
on Wednesday.


SAS was already hit last month by a similar strike after the
airline failed to reach a collective agreement with the
1,600-member Cabin Attendants Union.


SAS-Denmark management on Thursday intended to send a letter to
crew members asking they hand in uniforms, access and parking
cards.


"One cannot just stop working for fun. This is not a threat but
we are forced to underline how serious it is not to respect an
agreement," SAS-Denmark head of information Jens Langergaard told
Danish news agency Ritzau.


According to Mikkel Londahl a meeting was set in the Danish
labour court Thursday where SAS was hoping the striking crew
members would be given a fine for each hour of strike.


Londahl said there was no indication as to how long the strike
might continue.


"We hope to see an end to this illegal strike very soon, it is
very costly and hurts passenger confidence."

