

England defender Jonathan Woodgate has handed Middlesbrough a
huge boost by agreeing to transform his season-long loan move
from Real Madrid into a permanent transfer.


Woodgate had been considering his options for several months with
Arsenal and Newcastle among the clubs reportedly monitoring his
situation now that he finally seems to have overcome the injury
problems which blighted his time in Spain.


But the 27-year-old has decided to stay at his home town club and
sign a four- year deal, which will mean Boro paying Real a fee of
ten million euros (nearly seven million pounds).


Woodgate's decision will come as a relief to Boro boss Gareth
Southgate, who is currently attempting to persuade another key
member of his squad, Australian striker Mark Viduka, to stay at
the club when his contract expires at the end of the season.


With a player of Woodgate's calibre agreeing to stay, it will be
easier for Southgate to persuade the likes of Viduka that they
can achieve things at the club, as well as helping to attract new
players.


Woodgate arrived back in England having endured a miserable run
of luck with injuries which had limited him to only a handful of
games for Real.


However, having embarked upon a specially-designed fitness
programme, he has returned to full fitness and his best form,
missing only eight of the 41 games Boro have played since his
arrival.


His composed performances earned him a recall to the England
squad for the friendly defeat by Spain in February, although
injuries subsequently prevented him taking part in Euro 2008
qualifiers against Israel and Andorra.

