

Arab Israeli leader Azmi Bishara, under police investigation for
allegedly helping Hezbollah during last year's war in Lebanon,
said on Thursday he intended to remain in public life despite
resigning from parliament and leaving the country.


"I do not need to remind you that resignation from the Knesset
does not signify a retreat from politics," Bishara said in a
statement distributed by his party, the National Democratic
Assembly, better known by its Hebrew acronym Balad.


Bishara resigned from parliament at the Israeli embassy in Cairo
on Sunday. The police revealed the details of the probe against
him on Wednesday after a court- imposed gag order ran out.


"He's suspected of passing information on to Hezbollah during the
Second Lebanon War and receiving money in exchange," a police
source told AFP.


"The allegations are number one assisting an enemy during the
war, handing over information to the enemy, being in contact with
a foreign agent and number four a violation of money laundering
laws," police spokesman Micky Rosenfeld confirmed.


Bishara on Thursday repeated earlier pledges that he will return
to Israel, saying "exile is not an option," and again denying the
charges against him.


"I reject these accusations from start to finish, but I don't
accept the rules of the game put in place to condemn me," Bishara
said.


With his taste for provocation and Arab nationalism, the 50-year-
old Christian from Nazareth has long been admired by fellow Arab
Israelis and detested by right-wing Jewish Israelis.


A distinguished debater with a doctorate in philosophy who speaks
Arabic, English, German and Hebrew, Bishara was in 1999 the first
Arab Israeli to run for prime minister.


He has been a tireless defender of the concept of the State of
Israel for all its citizens, and has campaigned relentlessly for
the rights of the 1.2 million- strong Arab minority who make up
20 percent of the population.

