

US shares continued to ride record peaks Thursday morning on
swelling corporate profits, including from oil heavyweight
ExxonMobil which unveiled quarterly profits topping nine billion
dollars.


An improved financial snapshot from struggling automaker Ford was
also welcomed by investors a day after the leading Dow Jones
Industrial Average stock index burst the 13,000-point barrier for
the first time.


At 1514 GMT, the Dow was up 26.66 points, or 0.20 percent, to
13,116.55 after striking a record close of 13,089.89 Wednesday.


Traders said such record highs were psychologically important for
the market and would likely help underpin upbeat trading
sentiment.


The tech-rich Nasdaq composite was up 6.01 points, 0.24 percent,
at 2,553.90 and the broad-market Standard and Poor's 500 index
had rebounded 0.87 points, 0.06 percent, to 1,496.29.


Both indexes had closed at multi-year highs on Wednesday.


"Life is good. US equities have been on a tear and the Dow has
rallied 17 out of the last 19 days, closing at a record high,"
said Andrew Busch, a strategist at BMO Capital Markets.


Some analysts cautioned giddy investors, however, that the stock
market could be due a correction.


"Following yesterday's rally over Dow 13,000 we would expect to
see some consolidation today," said Al Goldman, a chief equity
strategist at AG Edwards.


Share gauges have rocketed to record highs in recent days
following a flurry of better-than-expected profit reports from
corporate America, brushing off concerns about slowing US
economic growth.


A rush of mergers and acquisitions, fueled by big private equity
firms, has also fired-up the market.


Shares gained Thursday morning after ExxonMobil, the world's
biggest energy company, said its latest quarterly profits gushed
to 9.28 billion dollars as refining and marketing booms offset
slower oil earnings.


The Texas-based behemoth's January-March net profits swelled 10
percent, equating to 1.62 dollars per share, 10 cents better than
most Wall Street forecasts.


ExxonMobil's quarterly profits were comfortably more than those
of Bank of America, Google, Boeing, McDonald's and Apple
combined. The oil firm's shares were up 25 cents at 80.17
dollars.


Ford Motor Co. meanwhile raced ahead of expectations in the first
quarter as the struggling auto giant posted a narrower loss of
282 million dollars.


That compared with a loss of 1.4 billion dollars in the same
period a year ago, and was well ahead of market expectations as
the company pushes ahead with a painful reorganization.


Ford's shares leapt 38 cents, or over four percent, to 8.26
dollars.


On the deal-making front, audio equipment group Harman said it
had agreed to be taken over by a group of investment funds
including Kohlberg Kravis Roberts for eight billion dollars.


Harman's shares rocketed 20.18 dollars, over 19 percent, to
122.74 dollars in late morning activity.


The morning's slender economic news also stoked Wall Street's
festive spirits as the Labor Department said weekly claims for
unemployment benefits dropped 20,000 to a seasonally-adjusted
321,000.


Bond prices, which move in an opposite direction to yields,
declined as investors switched into stocks.


The yield on the 10-year US Treasury bond rose to 4.656 percent
from 4.646 percent Wednesday and that on the 30-year bond climbed
to 4.838 percent against 4.830 percent.

