

The owner of the Czech Republic's biggest insurance company, the
PPF Group, and Italian insurance giant Generali said Thursday
thay planned to merge their Central European insurance
businesses.


Under the deal, the companies will pool their regional businesses
with Generali paying an additional 1.1 billion euros (1.5 billion
dollars) to PPF to take a 51.0 stake in the joint company that
results.


"The new joint venture will unite all of Generali's and PPF
Group's insurance in the CEE region giving the combined group
unrivalled reach" across 12 countries, the companies said, adding
that they would have nine million customers..


PPF's main asset is the Czech Republic's biggest insurer, Ceska
Pojistovna. The agreement values the Ceska Pojistovna Group at
3.6 billion euros and Generali's regional assets at 1.5 billion
euros, it added.


PPF Group's controlling shareholder, often described as the
country's richest man, Petr Kellner, will be nominated to join
the Generali board, it said.


Generali Group's joint chief executive, Sergio Balbinot, said it
had been looking for a partner to develop its business in Central
and Eastern Europe, where it already has four million clients.


The deal will combine General's "insurance capabilities and
financial strength with the dynamism and deep market knowledge of
a local entrepreneur," he added.


Ceska Pojistovna board chairman, Ladislav Bartonicek, added: "We
operate in complementary markets and the potential for
collaboration is compelling."


The companies said that real economic growth in the region will
range from 5.0-5.5 percent between 2007 and 2009, almost triple
that in Western Europe.


"Continuing rapid economic development is set to further boost
families' disposable income and, in turn, increase insurance
penetration levels pushing them towards European average," they
added.


The deal should be concluded in the second half of the year
following regulatory clearance, the companies said.

