

Nearly 100 African migrants whose boat capsized as they tried to
reach the Canary Islands were taken to Senegal on Thursday after
at least two among them had died from hypothermia.


Ninety-one migrants had been aboard the skiff, including the two
dead, when they were rescued off the coast of Mauritania, said
Senegal Police Colonel Alioune Ndiaye.


They were first assisted by a fishing boat, then by a Spanish
hospital ship.


Survivors told Spanish rescue workers about 10 other passengers
had died as well and were thrown overboard before the rescue.


Six of the passengers had been taken to Dakar hospitals, said
Ndiaye. The Red Cross said 12 were injured.


There were a number of Senegalese among the passengers, but
nationalities for the others had not yet been specified.
Investigators were trying to find out where the boat left from.


Most were dressed in white T-shirts and sandals and carrying
plastic bags when they arrived at the Dakar port, appearing
exhausted, an AFP journalist saw. There were at least four women
among them.


In a separate incident early Thursday, two illegal African
migrants died in an attempt to reach the Canary Islands. They
were traveling in a boat with 66 others who were rescued by the
Red Cross when arriving at the Spanish island of Tenerife.


The Canary Islands, a Spanish archipelego in the Atlantic Ocean
off the northwestern coast of Africa, have become one of the main
destinations for African illegal migrants hoping to get to
Europe. They often try to make the journey in dangerous,
makeshift boats.


Some 1,525 illegal migrants arrived at the islands by sea in the
first quarter of this year, a 61 percent drop from the same
period in 2006, according to an official count from island
authorities.


The reduction has been viewed largely as a result of improved
surveillance of the African coast and new diplomatic efforts by
Madrid towards the migrants' countries of origin.


European border security agency Frontex, which has coordinated
surveillance of the European Union's outside boundaries since
2004, has also stepped up its operations.

