

Russia's threat to block UN approval of a plan to put the Serbian
province of Kosovo on the road to independence will force the
West into a "compromise" solution, Serbia's foreign minister said
Thursday.


Using this threat, "Russia will produce a compromised resolution
... respecting fully the territorial integrity of Serbia and
respecting self-government for Kosovo Albanians in Kosovo," Vuk
Draskovic said on a visit to Paris.


The UN Security Council is due in the coming weeks to decide on
Kosovo's future status, based on a recommendation by UN special
envoy Martti Ahtisaari for it to be granted internationally
supervised independence.


Russia, a permanent member of the Security Council, has
traditionally supported Serbia, which fervently opposes the
independence of the ethnic Albanian majority province it sees as
its historic heartland.


Kosovo has been run by a UN mission since 1999, after NATO
bombing helped end a bloody Serbian crackdown on independence
seeking ethnic Albanians, who make up 90 percent of its two
million population.


Draskovic told journalists here Thursday: "If there is no
compromise, (there will be) no new resolution ... and we will
have the status quo."


A 15-member UN Security Council delegation is visiting Belgrade
Thursday to discuss the future of Kosovo.


Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica urged them to opt for a system
of "supervised autonomy" for the province instead of UN envoy
Martti Ahtisaari's plan, Tanjug news agency reported.


Kosovo's ethnic Albanian prime minister last week ruled out a
Russian proposal for further talks with Serbia on the future
status of the province.

