

An Italian aid group said Thursday it had closed all its medical
centres in Afghanistan after the country's secret service accused
it of "supporting terrorists" by brokering the release of a
journalist held by the Taliban.


The group, Emergency, said all three of its hospitals and its 26
clinics were shut late Wednesday.


"We were forced to do so because minimal security conditions no
longer existed after the arrest of Rahmatullah Hanefi (the Afghan
head of one of the hospitals) and the accusations by the head of
the Afghan security service," a spokesman, Vauro, said in Rome.


Afghan authorities arrested Hanefi on March 20, the day after his
negotiations with the Taliban as an intermediary resulted in the
liberation of Daniele Mastrogiacomo, an Italian journalist who
had been held hostage for two weeks.


The Afghan rebel group freed Mastrogiacomo in exchange for the
release of five Taliban prisoners by the Afghan government. Two
Afghans working with the journalist as a translator and as a
driver were decapitated by the Taliban.


Afghan officials have accused Hanefi of being implicated in the
kidnapping of Mastrogiacomo.


Afghan security service chief Amrullah Saleh alleged in an
interview with Italian media that Emergency was guilty "of
supporting terrorists and even men from Al-Qaeda in Afghanistan."


Vauro said the accusations underlined the threat confronting the
900 Afghan staff working in Emergency's medical centre's. The
Italian group evacuated its 38 foreign personnel on April 11 as a
precautionary measure.


Emergency had been operating in Afghanistan for the past 10
years. Since 1999, gave free medical treatment to 1.4 million
Afghans, according to its figures.

