

ExxonMobil, the world's biggest energy company, said Thursday its
latest quarterly profits gushed to 9.28 billion dollars as
refining and marketing booms offset slower oil earnings.


The Texas-based behemoth's January-March net profits swelled 10
percent, equating to 1.62 dollars per share, 10 cents better than
most Wall Street forecasts.


ExxonMobil is the world's biggest company in terms of market
value and earnings, and its quarterly profits were comfortably
more than those of Bank of America, Google, Boeing, McDonald's
and Apple combined.


The oil giant's revenues declined slightly to 87.2 billion
dollars from 88.9 billion a year earlier.


It garnered about six billion dollars of profits from "upstream"
operations, which include oil and gas exploration and production.
That was down slightly from 6.4 billion dollars in the first
quarter of 2006.


"In the first quarter, ExxonMobil continued to actively invest,
bringing additional crude oil, finished products and natural gas
to market," said ExxonMobil's chairman Rex Tillerson.


The drop in upstream income, however, was offset by improved
"downstream" refining and marketing operations, which generated a
higher profit of 1.9 billion dollars.


Earnings from ExxonMobil's chemical division swelled to 1.3
billion dollars.


The energy heavyweight rakes in vast sums of cash from its global
operations and presence in most major oil-producing regions.


ExxonMobil signed an agreement with Libya's government during the
quarter to prospect for new energy deposits after Washington
renewed diplomatic ties with the north African state last year.


Its worldwide footprint also spans the Americas, Europe, the
Middle East and Asia.


In 2006, the Texas-based firm's profit ballooned to a record 39.5
billion dollars, a sum believed to be the biggest corporate
profit ever.


That sparked a political backlash in the United States including
from Democratic presidential aspirant Hillary Clinton, who called
for a new direction in America's energy policy.

