

US President George W. Bush will quickly veto legislation, backed
by his Democratic foes, tying Iraq war funding to starting a
pull-out of US forces late this year, the White House said
Thursday.


"We need to see when we get the bill. But it will be very soon,"
spokeswoman Dana Perino said as the Senate prepared to follow the
House of Representatives in approving the controversial 124
-billion-dollar measure.


"Obviously the president has said that we need to get the process
over with, in terms of them sending him a bill and him vetoing it
so that we can take the next step. So it will be soon, but I
can't give you a date, or time," she said.


The House late Wednesday approved the measure, which sets October
1 as the beginning of a US withdrawal from Iraq, defying Bush's
weeks-old threat to veto the legislation. The Senate was expected
to vote Thursday.


The bill could reach Bush on May 1, the fourth anniversary of his
May 1 2003 speech on the deck of the US aircraft carrier USS
Abraham Lincoln, in which he declared "victory" in Iraq under a
giant "Mission Accomplished" banner.


Perino suggested that the president's Democratic critics had
dragged out the legislative process in order to tie it to the
speech, calling that a "ridiculous PR (public relations) stunt"
and "the height of cynicism."


The "Mission Accomplished" speech has dogged Bush as the symbol
of what critics charge is his excessive optimism about Iraq.


Perino noted that Bush had never actually said "mission
accomplished" in his speech and that the message only reflected
the crew's safe return after a long deployment.


The White House has previously misled reporters on its role in
putting the banner together, initially claiming no relationship
to the sign, and later acknowledging that it was conceived by
Bush's public relations team as a backdrop for his speech.

