

US President George W. Bush will veto newly passed legislation
that ties Iraq war funding to an October 1 start date for a US
troop withdrawal, the White House said Thursday.


"I just spoke to the president in the Oval Office and, as he said
he would for weeks, the president will veto this legislation,"
spokeswoman Dana Perino said after the US Senate approved the
bill, sending it to his desk.


Asked when he would formally reject the legislation, Perino
replied: "As soon as we get the bill the president, as you can
imagine, would make good on his promise to veto it. And then
we'll take it from there."


Amid questions about what happens next, the spokeswoman stressed:
"You can assume that the president would soon meet quickly after
that with the congressional leaders in order to start work on the
bill."


The measure provides more cash than Bush sought for operations in
Iraq and Afghanistan, but says US troops are to start withdrawing
from Iraq on October 1, with a non-binding target of completing
the pullout by March 31, 2008.


Bush's veto will kill the 124-billion-dollar spending measure,
but Perino insisted that his Democratic foes were the ones to
blame because they knew he would reject the measure and that they
lacked the votes to override him.


"The Senate has now joined the House in passing defeatist
legislation that insists on a date for surrender, micromanages
our commanders and generals in combat zones from 6,000 miles
away, and adds billions of dollars in unrelated spending to the
fighting on the ground," she charged.


It will be the first time that Bush vetoes legislation since the
Democrats harnessed anger at the unpopular war to capture the US
Congress, where they took over in January, and just the second
veto of his two terms in office.


In July 2006, Bush vetoed legislation on embryonic stem cell
research.

