

Some 40 members of Egypt's opposition Muslim Brotherhood went on
trial at a military court on Thursday, charged with being in a
banned organisation and funding terrorism, a judicial source
said.


Defence lawyers boycotted the closed-door session, from which
even relatives were initially excluded, arguing that they had not
been told about the dates of the tribunal.


Defendants included Khayrat al-Shater, the number three man in
the Brotherhood, who together with other businessmen linked to
the group had their assets frozen and were referred to a military
court in February.


Family members were initially banned from the proceedings before
eventually being allowed in. They said the defendants remained
silent because their counsel was not present.


In past military trials of Islamists, journalists and family
members, as well as diplomatic observers, have been allowed into
the courtroom at a military base in the desert outside Cairo.


Thursday's session lasted for approximately four hours before
being adjourned until June 3.


Shater was arrested last December in the continuing government
crackdown on Egypt's largest opposition bloc, following a
university demonstration in which masked pro-Brotherhood students
staged a military-style parade on the campus of Al-Azhar
University in the capital.


The targeting of Shater and other businessmen associated with the
movement has been seen as an attempt to cripple the powerful
organisation financially.


Egyptian authorities accuse the movement, which controls a fifth
of the seats in parliament, of seeking to revive its underground
military wing and of eventually trying to topple the regime.


The government began using military courts to try members of the
Muslim Brotherhood and other Islamic groups in the 1990s when
they were not being convicted by the civilian courts.


Under a law passed by parliament last week, the verdicts of
military courts can now be appealed.

