

Uganda and the rebel Lord's Resistance Army resumed peace talks
Thursday aimed at ending the country's 20-year civil war, with a
plea from the UN mediator not to let the chance for peace slip
away.


Former Mozambique president Joaquim Chissano, who is also the
United nations envoy to the peace process, opened the talks in
the southern Sudanese city of Juba.


Chissano has been a key figure in moves to unblock the talks
after a three-month suspension.


"If lost, this opportunity shall never return," Chissano told the
government and rebel delegations attending the talks.


Also present at the opening ceremony were southern Sudan
President Salva Kiir; chief mediator and vice president of the
region Riek Machar; and other co- mediators from the Democratic
Republic of Congo, Kenya, South Africa, Tanzania, and Zambia.


A UN official at the peace talks said both sides were under
pressure to create the conditions necessary for the release of
women and children believed held by the LRA in northern Uganda,
southern Sudan and the eastern DRC.


"We expect the world community to exert pressure on both sides to
show some degree of seriousness in this round of talks," the
official told AFP.


"A key indicator of the seriousness of the peace process should
be the LRA to release women and children under its captivity,"
added the official, who asked to remain anonymous.


The Juba talks are seen as the best chance to end the deadly
conflict that that has killed tens of thousands and displaced
nearly two million in northern Uganda.


The talks, which first opened mid-2006, stalled in December when
the rebels walked out, citing fears for their lives.


They called for a new venue and new mediators, accusing the
southern Sudanese autonomous government of bias, but Chissano
managed to secure co-mediators from other African states.


On April 14, the LRA agreed to resume negotiations after meeting
Chissano.


Both sides also renewed a truce, first agreed last August, for
the duration of the peace talks.


Human Rights Watch said Wednesday that war crime suspects in the
LRA leadership had to be prosecuted if their region was to
achieve durable peace, despite a threat of "no-peace" by indicted
rebel supremo Joseph Kony.


Kony, his deputy Vincent Otti and three other commanders have
been indicted by the International Criminal Court for crimes
against humanity -- specifically for murder, rape, mutilations
and mass abductions.


The rebels are demanding that the war crimes charges be dropped
before they agree to a final peace pact. Ugandan President Yoweri
Museveni has said he will not ask the International Criminal
Court (ICC) to quash them until the deal is done.


Kony, a self-proclaimed prophet and mystic, claims to be fighting
to replace Museveni's government with one based on the Biblical
Ten Commandments.


But his rebel group is better known for atrocities, particularly
the kidnapping of an estimated 25,000 children -- girls for sex
slaves and boys for fighters.


The United Nations and humanitarian groups say that the conflict
has spurred one of the world's worst and most neglected
humanitarian crises.

