

A French aid group on Thursday appealed to the Taliban to spare
the lives of five of its workers the Islamic militia kidnapped
three weeks ago in Afghanistan.


"We implore the kidnappers to let Celine, Eric, Azrat, Rasoul and
Hashim live and we ask the Afghan authorites to do all they can
to free them," Terre d'Enfance (A World For Our Children) said in
a statement.


Two French aid workers for the non-governmental organisation went
missing in southwestern Afghanistan on April 3 along with three
of their Afghan staff.


The Taliban, which has beheaded several of its captives in
previous kidnappings, said last Friday it would not release the
hostages unless French troops withdrew from Afghanistan and Kabul
released Taliban prisoners.


Its deadline was Friday April 27 after which time, it said in a
statement, "the position of the Islamic Emirate (the Taliban)
about foreign prisoners was clear to the world and (will) soon be
applied."


The Taliban said Thursday that the hostages were alive and well.


In a videotape message broadcast a week ago, the hostages said
they feared for their lives and urged the French government to
give in to the kidnappers' demands.


The Taliban made similar demands ahead of the release of the
kidnapped Italian journalist Daniele Mastrogiacomo. The reporter
was freed in exchange for five Taliban prisoners in a deal which
met with widespread outrage.


His driver and his interpreter were beheaded.


Around 1,000 French troops are deployed in the Kabul region as
part of the NATO- led International Security Assistance Force
helping the government to extend its authority across the
country.

