

The European Parliament voiced deep concerns on Thursday about
the EU's delayed Galileo satellite navigation system while a top
EU official ruled out pulling the plug on the troubled programme.


Nearly two years since a consortium was chosen in June 2005, the
concession contract for the project remains unsigned as the
companies squabble over who will do what. They have been given
until May 10 to work out there differences.


In a resolution adopted Thursday, the parliament said it was
"deeply concerned by the fact that the concession negotiations
have been at a standstill for several months."


EU lawmakers expressed particular concern that the delays would
drive up the costs of the programme, which is priced at 1.5
billion euros (1.95 billion dollars) and meant to be fully
operational in 2012.


The system is aimed at breaking Europe's dependence on the free
US Global Positioning System (GPS), used aboard many cars, boats
and aircraft.


Despite the programme's problems, EU Industry Commissioner
Guenter Verheugen ruled out the possibility of calling off
Galileo, describing the project as essential.


"Galileo is from the European Commission standpoint an absolutely
essential project," he told journalists in Brussels. "We don't
have an option of giving up on Galileo."


The current consortium comprises Britain's Inmarsat, the European
group EADS, French firms Thales and Alcatel, Spain's Hispasat and
Aena, Italy's Finmeccanica and Germany's TeleOp.


Industry sources have accused Hispasat of causing the delays with
demands for a bigger role than initially foreseen, although the
Spanish government has dismissed such claims.

