

The euro struck a new high against the yen on Thursday and again
came close to beating its record against the dollar amid about
positive growth prospects for the 13-nation eurozone.


Analysts said a new record high for the euro against the dollar
was possible on Friday when figures for US economic growth in
first quarter are to be released.


"It seems we may have to wait for Friday's US GDP figure to see a
clear break of the euro-dollar high, considering the relatively
empty economic calendar today," Commerzbank currency strategist
Gavin Friend said.


The euro struck 162.55 yen in European trade early on Thursday,
its highest level ever against the Japanese currency, on
expectations that strong growth would lead to further interest
rate rises for the eurozone.


The European single currency also reached just shy of its record
high against the US unit, before falling back to trade at 1.3596
dollars in late European trading.


On Wednesday the single currency had set a new two-year high of
1.3665 dollars, almost touching its December 30, 2004 record high
of 1.3666.


The euro hit its record against the yen as the market braced for
a series of Japanese economic reports on Friday including
unemployment, consumer prices and industrial output, as well as
the Bank of Japan's economic outlook report.


In the United States, key US gross domestic product (GDP) figures
for the first quarter were due Friday.


"Right now the market perception of growth is looking less clear-
cut in the US, while the European outlook goes from strength to
strength," said Steve Barrow, currency strategist at Bear
Stearns, explaining the rise in the euro.


Investors have driven the euro higher on growing expectations of
further interest rate rises by the European Central Bank, with
many economists forecasting a quarter point hike to 4.00 percent
in June.


That would make eurozone assets even more attractive, enticing
investors to change other currencies into the euro.


The market is now fully expecting another interest rate hike from
the Bank of England next month to 5.50 percent after inflation
inflation jumped to a 15-year high of 3.1 percent in March and
the British economy continues to grow above its long-run average.


Furthermore, market rumours that Britain's biggest bank HSBC is
having to buy up to 5.0 billion pounds in dollars to meet its
dividend commitments, briefly pushed sterling further above 2.0
dollars on Thursday, dealers said.


HSBC, which accounts in dollars, was due to announce its
quarterly dividend payment to shareholders next Monday. But
British shareholders must take it in sterling, meaning the bank
has to buy a significant sum of pounds with dollars.


"There are rumours that it could be as much as 5.0 billion pounds
but we think this is way off the mark," said Paul Bednarczyk,
currency strategist at 4CAST.


In late European trading, the euro was changing hands at 1.3596
dollars, against 1.3636 dollars late Wednesday, 162.45 yen
(161.92), 0.6830 pounds (0.6808) and 1.6429 Swiss francs
(1.6428).


The dollar stood at 119.51 yen (118.72) and 1.2087 Swiss francs
(1.2044).


The pound was being traded at 1.9903 dollars (2.0014).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold fell to 673
dollars per ounce, from 684.00 dollars late on Wednesday.

