

The French unemployment rate fell by 0.1 percentage points in
March to 8.3 percent, the French employment ministry said on
Thursday amid controversy about the reliability of the data.


The labour report comes at a critical time ahead of the final
round of presidential elections on May 6 with the solution to
France's stubbornly high unemployment rate a key policy focus for
both candidates.


Right-wing candidate Nicholas Sarkozy, a former finance and
interior ministry in the incumbent centre-right government, is up
against Socialist rival Segolene Royal in the run-off.


About 40 academics and economists had urged the government not to
publish the jobless figures on Thursday. They alleged that the
figures would be "artificially low" and would amount to
"manipulation of public opinion" before the vote a week on
Sunday.


An apparent sharp fall in joblessness in France in the last 12
months has been contested by trade unions and the opposition,
casting doubt on the independence of INSEE and the reliability of
its statistics.


An annual review of INSEE's data was to take place in March --
before the elections -- but was pushed back to later in the year
for technical reasons, raising fears of manipulation.


Statisticians at the employment ministry went on strike on
Thursday to protest the use of their data, which they described
as unreliable estimates.


Announcing the figures despite the pressure, the ministry said
that the number of jobseekers in March fell 1.4 percent to 2.036
million, while the unemployment rate according to International
Labour Organisation norms fell 0.1 points from the February level
to 8.3 percent.


The ministry underlined that the ILO unemployment figure was
provisional and could be revised.


Doubts about INSEE intensified last month when the EU statistic
agency Eurostat revised up its estimate for French employment in
February to 8.8 percent compared to the 8.4 percent given by
INSEE.

