

Human Rights Watch urged Saudi Arabia on Thursday to expand on
its pledge to investigate a beating at one prison by broadening
the inquiry to include all of the country's jails.


Recent video footage of a guard beating detainees at Al-Ha'ir
prison south of Riyadh "corroborates accounts of beatings
collected by Human Rights Watch during a visit to the prison in
November," the US-based group said in a statement.


"Shocking videos" taken by mobile phone and posted on an Internet
site on April 18 "shed light on the torture and ill-treatment in
Saudi prisons," said Sarah Leah Whitson, HRW's Middle East
director.


"The Saudi government must take immediate steps to end these
abuses and punish those responsible, whatever their rank," she
added.


HRW said it had collected accounts of 12 deaths in custody that
allegedly resulted from ill-treatment and treatable illnesses in
Al-Ha'ir and other prisons in the oil-rich kingdom.


"At al-Ha'ir, several prisoners independently told Human Rights
Watch that two inmates had died because of inadequate medical
care and three others as a result of beatings," it said.


HRW noted that the Saudi director of prisons, Ali al-Harithi, was
quoted as saying that the government had suspended two guards
identified in the video as beating the prisoners and had begun an
investigation into the incident.


It called for an inquiry into alleged beatings and deaths in
custody that would cover jails across the entire country and be
conducted by the Saudi Bureau of Investigation and Public
Prosecution jointly with the National Human Rights Society.

