

Czech President Vaclav Klaus said he hoped to allay Russian
concerns about Washington's plans for a missile defence system in
central Europe, as he arrived on a four-day state visit on
Thursday.


"I will try to remind our Russian partners that Russia was
informed earlier about the American plans," Klaus said in an
interview with ITAR-TASS news agency. He was referring to
Washington's insistence that it has kept Moscow fully informed.


"This system is in no way aimed against Russia and can't be aimed
against it," he added.


Klaus is due to hold talks with President Vladimir Putin and
other officials on Friday. He will also visit the grave of
Russia's first post-Soviet president Boris Yeltsin, who died on
Monday.


The visit comes as the Czech Republic is holding talks with the
United States on deploying part of an expanded missile defence
system on Czech territory.


The US plans involve deploying a radar system in the Czech
Republic and interceptor rockets in Poland.


The United States says the system is not directed against Russia
but is aimed at protecting against attack by "rogue states" such
as Iran and North Korea.


Russia has portrayed the plans as a dangerous incursion that
could spark a new Cold War.


In an interview on Thursday with Kommersant newspaper, Klaus said
he saw little chance of pulling out of talks with the United
States.


"The Czech Republic has started negotiations on deployment of a
radar and I don't see them being revised," he told Kommersant.


In Prague, Russia expert Karel Svoboda from Charles University,
said earlier that missile defence was the main item on Klaus'
agenda, but he was downbeat about the likely outcome.


"Missile defence is the main issue in Czech-Russian relations at
the moment, but I do not expect a breakthrough from Klaus'
visit," Svoboda told AFP.


Later in his visit, Klaus was to visit the oil-rich province of
Tatarstan to discuss cooperation, ITAR-TASS said.

