

Swiss-Swedish engineering group ABB on Thursday continued its
sharp surge by recording a 153 percent increase in first quarter
net profit to 537 million dollars (394 million euros), driven by
strong demand for electricity.


Sales revenue in the first three months of the year grew 21
percent to 6.21 billion dollars, spurred by demand for power
generation and energy efficiency equipment in industrialised and
emerging markets, ABB said in a statement.


Earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) swelled by 67 percent to
822 million dollars, driving the engineering giant's earnings
margin to a record 13.2 percent, it added.


Orders in the first quarter reached 8.64 billion dollars --
nearly half of them in Europe and an increase of 26 percent,
which fuelled an 18.51 billion dollar backlog on the company's
order book.


ABB's share price gained five percent to reach 24.30 Swiss francs
by the close of trading on the Zurich stock exchange Friday.


The group said it expected strong demand for new and more
efficient replacement power equipment to continue through 2007
and argued that it was "well positioned" to benefit from efforts
to mitigate climate change.


"Our operational improvements and global reach are paying off,"
said ABB president and chief executive Fred Kindle.


"We are positioned to capture the strong worldwide demand for
technologies to deliver reliable power, increase productivity and
save energy," he added.


ABB, which employs 108,000 people worldwide, nearly doubled its
annual net profit in 2006 to 1.4 billion dollars on an 11 percent
increase in sales.

