

Iran has the capacity to fire tens of thousands of missiles at
American targets and make "nowhere safe" for the United States, a
top security official said on Wednesday.


"Iran has long-range missiles that can make nowhere safe for
America," said Mohammad Baqer Zolqader, deputy interior minister
for security affairs and former deputy head of the Revolutionary
Guards, according to the official IRNA news agency.


"Iran is able to fire tens of thousands of missiles per day at
American targets on a daily basis and, with its long-range
missiles, can threaten Israel which is acting as America's
logistician," he added.


The United States has never ruled out the option of military
action to secure Iranian compliance with UN Security Council
resolutions on its nuclear programme.


Iran has repeatedly said it would strike back hard if it ever
came under attack.


Zolqader said that America currently "is unashamedly confronting
Iran and wants to take military action but due to the technical
and strategic reasons cannot realise its bad intentions."


He said that the United States was now looking instead to "create
instability and crisis inside the country and also stir up ethnic
and religious differences."


Iran's missile arsenal includes its longer-range Shahab-3
missile, which has a range of up to 2,000 kilometres (1,200
miles) -- sufficient to threaten US bases in the Gulf as well as
Israel.


It also has several types of shorter-range weaponry, including
the Zelzal-2 (Quake) missiles which are said to have a range of
100 to 400 kilometres (60 to 250 miles).

