

The head of the 57-nation Organization of the Islamic Conference
(OIC) accused the West of anti-Muslim bias on Thursday and warned
journalists against automatically linking Islam with terrorism.


"Bias against Islam has increased since September 11, 2001 and a
series of terrorist acts in Europe.... What we see now is a
monologue, not a dialogue, and that increases divisions,"
Ekmeleddin Ihsanoglu said at the opening of an IOC conference on
the media in the Azerbaijani capital Baku.


"The media must dispel the myth that terrorism and Islam are
identical concepts," he said, adding that the misrepresentation
of Islam "adds fuel to the fire" of Muslim discontent with the
West.


Issues of media freedom in Muslim states, including mainly-Muslim
Azerbaijan, were also raised at the event.


The recent jailing in Azerbaijan of the editor of two independent
newspapers, Eynulla Fatullayev, was raised by the European
Union's special representative to the Caucasus nations of
Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia, Peter Semneby.


On April 20, Fatullayev was convicted for libel and sentenced to
18 months in prison. Media rights groups say Azerbaijan's libel
laws are frequently used to silence the government's critics.


"The provisions on libel should be removed from Azerbaijan's
criminal code to help solve the problem of pressure being put on
journalists," Semneby said on the sidelines of the conference.


The OIC, the world's largest grouping of Muslim countries,
organized the two-day conference in an effort to promote
"tolerance and mutual understanding" in the media. Among those
present were representatives of major media outlets from Muslim
countries including Qatar-based Al-Jazeera television and Egypt's
Al- Ahram newspaper.

