

Children freed after being held hostage on their school bus for
10 hours in Manila were playing in a local hospital Wednesday
night showing no signs of stress from their ordeal, hospital
staff said.


Doctor Mary Caroline Azores said the children, aged between five
and seven, all appeared to be in good physical condition.


Taken to Manila hospital, just a few kilometres from the scene of
the drama, they were given a physical check-up by doctors and
given a light meal.


Most of the children were accompanied by their parents but she
said "one or two" did not have parents with them.


None of the children were allowed to be interviewed by the press.


"They all appeared to be fine despite their ordeal," she told
reporters.


"None of them were crying."


Asked if any of them showed signs of trauma she said: "We can't
say at this time."


She said the children had been taken to a wing of the hospital
where they were playing.


All the children would be held overnight for observation before
being allowed home with their parents.


They told her that the hostage-taker, who was also head of their
pre-school, Amando "Jun" Ducat, gave them toys when they were on
the bus.


"Most of them knew him as a kind man and they trusted him," she
said.


"Some of them were scared when they saw him with his gun ... even
at seven these kids know what guns can do," she said.


Ducat, a veteran attention-seeker who kidnapped two priests 20
years ago, had repeatedly promised not to hurt the 32 children,
all of whom were released after he appeared to hand over at least
one hand grenade to police.


"I apologise for taking this harsh step," Ducat said in a brief
speech via a public address system connected to the bus before he
freed the youngsters and two teachers and gave himself up.


"I ask the forgiveness of the people of Parola," he said,
referring to the slum neighbourhood in Manila where most of the
children live.


"I did what I did because of my love for you."

