

Oussama Mellouli became Tunisia's first swimming world champion
with a come- from-behind win in the 800-metres freestyle here
Wednesday.


The US-based Mellouli swam a personal best seven minutes 46.95
seconds to overhaul Poland's Przemyslaw Stanczyk (7:47.91) and
Australia's Craig Stevens (7:48.67).


The crisis enveloping Australia's world champion and world record
holder Grant Hackett deepened when he finished a wretched seventh
almost nine seconds behind Mellouli.


"It's that much better making it happen here in Australia,
because the country is so in love with swimming," Tunisia's new
sporting hero Mellouli said.


"I'm just happy to be here, it's been great. I'm hoping to keep
the ball rolling for the 400m medley," added Mellouli, who has
moved from France to Los Angeles to continue his studies.


It capped an outstanding world titles for the 23-year-old
Tunisian, who took silver behind Korean Park Tae-hwan in the 400m
freestyle on Sunday.


Frenchman Sebastien Rouault set a cracking early pace with
Mellouli sitting off the lead and working himself into contention
with four laps to go.


Mellouli moved past Stanczyk and into the lead and held on to win
by almost a second.


Hackett has now lost his 400m and 800m freestyle world titles in
four days' competition and looked a beaten swimmer a long way
from the finish.


He was last at one stage but managed to finish a flat seventh in
7:55.39, almost 8.5 seconds behind Mellouli and almost 17 seconds
off his world record time of 7:38.65.


Hackett has been plagued by a poor leadup to the world
championships after leaving his long-time coach Denis Cotterell
and moving to Melbourne from his Gold Coast home.


"Unfortunately, tonight wasn't good enough. If I had more fuel in
the tank I would have stepped it up a few places," Hackett said.


It is the first time Hackett has finished outside of the top two
since the non- Olympic 800m freestyle event was first swum at the
2001 World Championships in Fukuoka, Japan.

