

The family of a young British woman whose body was found in a
bathtub filled with sand at an apartment in suburban Tokyo
arrived in Japan Wednesday.


Police are seeking to arrest a Japanese man who lived in the
apartment where they found 22-year-old English teacher Lindsay
Ann Hawker's bruised and naked body buried in a disconnected
bathtub on the balcony.


Her father, William, was enraged and tearfully vowed to see
justice is served in connection with the death of his daughter,
who finished her university last year and came to Japan in
October.


"My daughter did not come here to be murdered. She came here to
help people. She came here to teach," he said in a shaking voice,
tears rolling down from his eyes.


"I ... will not rest until the man who killed my daughter is
caught," he said.


Police are looking for Tatsuya Ichihashi, 28, who allegedly
dashed out of his apartment in Chiba, east of Tokyo, when police
officers visited to question him.


Police found Hawker's mobile phone, clothes and bag inside the
room, according to Japanese media reports.


Hawker was believed to have promised to provide an English lesson
to Ichihashi outside of the privately run English conversation
school where she worked, public broadcaster NHK reported.


They apparently met only a few days before she was found dead,
reports said.


The case comes seven years after the disappearance of another
young British woman, Lucie Blackman. The 21-year-old bar hostess
was found seven months later, dismembered and buried in a seaside
cave.


The Blackman case made headlines in Britain and Japan, with
British Prime Minister Tony Blair personally calling for
cooperation on the investigation during a visit to Japan.


Police arrested a former property developer, Joji Obara, in
relation to Blackman's death. His trial is ongoing and he has
pleaded not guilty. A verdict is expected next month.

