

France's Laure Manaudou hit back from the effects of a gruelling
campaign with a world record to take out the women's 200-metres
freestyle and her second gold at the world championships
Wednesday.


Manaudou, who swum three events on Tuesday for a silver medal in
the 100m backstroke in a French record, led from the gun in lane
two and held on to win in a new record of one minute 55.52
seconds.


She broke the mark which had been set in Tuesday's semi-finals by
Italian Federica Pellegrini of 1:55.47 by five-hundreds of a
second.


"I didn't expect to set another world record but Pellegrini is a
great swimmer and she will get it again next time," Manaudou
said.


The Frenchwoman, 20, broke the championship record twice when she
won the 400m freestyle on Sunday.


She only qualified fifth fastest for the final (1:57.30) and
pulled out of the semi-finals of the 50m backstroke to
concentrate on the 200m freestyle and her decision paid rich
dividends.


It was despair for German Annika Lurz, who was also under
Pellegrini's old record, but had to settle for second with
1:55.68, just 16-100ths of a second away from Manaudou.


"No, I'm not disappointed. I swam a fantastic race. I accept, and
respect and I'm happy for Laure Manaudou," Lurz said.


She is the sister-in-law of Germany's open water swimmer Thomas
Lurz, who collected gold and silver medals in the men's 5km and
10km open water events earlier in the Melbourne championships.


Pellegrini, who stunned herself in the semi-finals when she broke
German Franziska Van Almsick's record which has stood since 2002,
took bronze in 1:56.97.


"I just wanted to improve on yesterday which was a perfect race
and you can't improve on a perfect race," Pellegrini said.
"There's still time for me to do it again."

