

French talk show host Jean-Luc Delarue was sentenced Wednesday to
three days of community service for his angry outburst on a
flight from Paris to Johannesburg.


Delarue, 42, accepted the sentence under a plea bargain agreement
when he appeared in court in Bobigny, north of Paris.


The talk show host has admitted to losing control on board the
February 13 flight and blamed a mix of alcohol and medication for
his behaviour.


Air France flight attendants used handcuffs to restrain Delarue
to his first class seat after he insulted three cabin crew and
attacked one attendant.


Three flight attendants and Air France decided against pressing
charges against Delarue after he presented an apology and offered
to pay compensation.


Air France lawyer Yann Pedler declined to reveal the amount of
the settlement reached with Delarue, one of France's highest-paid
TV personalities.


One of Delarue's lawyers, Kiril Bugarchev, told the court that
the TV host had signed up for a special course on managing stress
offered by Air France.


Known for his gentle and low-key manner, Delarue hosts a talk
show called "Ca se discute" (Let's Talk About It), which touches
on such human interest topics as how to deal with teenage
suicide, choosing a plastic surgeon or how siblings cope in large
families.


Delarue also founded a successful television production company,
Reservoir Prod.


The talk-show host was sentenced for violent offenses but a
sexual assault complaint by a flight attendant was changed to
fondling.

