

Turkey on Wednesday hailed the resumption of stalled talks with
the European Union as a sign that its membership bid was back on
track.


"The opening of a new chapter (in accession talks) shows that
Turkey's EU process is soundly on track and that the official
process is functioning neatly," Turkey's chief EU negoatiator,
Economy Minister Ali Babacan, said here.


Babacan was responding to a decision by EU ambassadors earlier
Wednesday to kickstart talks with Turkey by beginning
negotiations on one of the 35 policy chapters that each aspiring
country must complete to become an EU member.


Talks on the chapter, which concerns "enterprise and industry
policy", are expected to begin Thursday with a ceremony in
Brussels to be attented by Babacan.


Babacan said Ankara was working on reforms to reach EU norms and
that he expected negotations on three other chapters to begin
soon.


"Both the European Commission and the current EU chair, Germany,
have told us that these three chapters could begin before the end
of June," Babacan said.


Turkey's EU membership talks entered a sluggish phase in June
amid a growing row over Ankara's refusal to grant trade
privileges to Cyprus.


In December, the EU froze talks on eight chapters in response to
Ankara's failure to fully extend its customs union agreement with
the bloc to EU-member Cyprus.


Under the freeze, chapters can be opened but not closed until the
problem is resolved.


Turkey refuses to open its ports and airports to Cyprus, whose
Greek administration it does not recognize, until the EU fulfills
its pledge to end the isolation of the breakaway Turkish Cypriot
statelet in the north of the island, recognised only by Ankara.

