

Porsche, the German maker of luxury sports cars, officially
launched a mandatory takeover offer for Volkswagen, Europe's
biggest car maker, on Wednesday.


But the price appeared low, suggesting that Porsche did not
really want the bid to succeed.


Stuttgart-based Porsche, which has raised its stake in VW to
30.94 percent, said in a short statement that it would offer to
buy all the remaining shares in the car maker at 100.92 euros
(134 dollars) apiece, as required by law.


The offer price was the legal minimum that Porsche was obliged to
bid.


But with VW shares currently being traded at about 113 euros on
the Frankfurt stock exchange, there appears to be little chance
that shareholders will actually take up Porsche's offer.


That is, in fact, Porsche's very intention.


Under German law, a shareholder is obliged to launch a public
takeover for all shares in a company once its stake rises above
30 percent.


Porsche raised its stake to 30.94 percent this week in a bid to
thwart any potential hostile takeover bids. But the luxury sports
car maker insisted that it has no plans to buy VW's entire share
capital for the time being.


Analysts see the move as a clever way for Porsche to increase its
say in VW without being forced to pay over the odds for any
additional shares.


Furthermore, Porsche could be speculating that VW's share price
would fall in the wake of the announcement, thereby enabling them
to buy up additional shares more cheaply, experts suggest.


If the public takeover offer fails, as expected, Porsche can
stealthily build up its stake to up to 50 percent without being
obliged to disclose the exact size of its shareholding. And that
would help scare off any potential predators.

