

Italian bishops made a solemn appeal Wednesday to Italy's
Catholic lawmakers to reject draft legislation that would grant
legal status to gay couples.


"The Catholic parliamentarian has the moral duty to express
disapproval clearly and publicly, and to vote against (a bill)
that would lead to legal recognition of homosexual unions," their
appeal said, referring to a directive of the Vatican's
Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith.


The permanent council of Italian bishops said legalisation of de
facto unions would be "unacceptable as a matter of principle and
dangerous on the social and educational level," adding that
"legalisation of unions between persons of the same sex (would
be) an even more serious problem."


The Italian government unveiled a draft bill on February 8 to
recognise the rights of unmarried gay and heterosexual couples, a
measure that was part of the centre-left's manifesto going into
last April's hard-fought elections.


Several practising Catholic ministers signed on to it, with the
exception of centrist Justice Minister Clemente Mastella.


The bill must be passed by parliament, where many members on both
sides of the aisle are practising Catholics.


The bishops statement said: "A Christian who backs the
legalisation of de facto unions would be inconsistent."


The Vatican and Pope Benedict XVI have spoken out repeatedly
against Italy's draft law on civil unions, drawing angry
accusations of interference from the Italian left.


On March 13, the pope issued an exhortation urging "Catholic
politicians and legislators ... (not) to introduce and support
laws inspired by values grounded in human nature."


"These values are not negotiable," he wrote, listing "respect for
human life, its defence from conception to natural death (and)
the family built upon marriage between a man and a woman."

