

The Czech government announced Wednesday it will launch official
negotiations with Washington over the eventual siting of a radar
station in the country as part of the extension of a US anti-
missile defence shield.


"The government has agreed to start negotiations," Prime Minister
Mirek Topolanek said in a news conference. "The Czech Republic
recognises the risks for which the anti-missile base should be
built," he added.


Washington asked Prague in January to accept a radar base for
detecting incoming missile attacks, ostensibly from such states
as Iran and North Korea, and for neighbouring Poland to host a
base for interceptor missiles.


The proposal has sparked strong criticism from Russia and split
NATO countries.


Topolanek promised that the government "would strive for the
anti-missile defence system to be integrated in the future
defence framework of the North Atlantic Alliance."


The project to host a foreign base in the former Soviet-dominated
Warsaw Pact country has divided the fragile centre-right
coalition, with the junior coalition party, the Green Party,
demanding that the US defence shield be incorporated in future
NATO and EU defence plans.


Neighbour Poland has insisted on the other hand that the issue is
a purely bilateral one between Warsaw and Washington.


Topolanek, who has staunchly backed the extension of the US
defence shield, said the United States would be allowed to carry
out preparatory work on the radar base, as bilateral negotiations
continue.


"No irreversible steps will be taken," he promised.


Negotiations are likely to last until the end of the year with
the Czech parliament, where Topolanek's fragile coalition
government has no guaranteed majority, giving a final verdict on
whether or not to accept the US base.


If approved, the radar station, likely to be sited at a former
military base around 100 kilometres (60 miles) west of Prague,
could be operational as early as 2011.

