

Palestinians made homeless when a Gaza village was destroyed by a
deadly flood of raw sewage were taking shelter in makeshift camps
on Wednesday as local residents hunted for more bodies.


Three women, one more than 70 years old, and two boys aged one
and two died when the earthen walls of a cesspool collapsed on
Tuesday in the northern Gaza village of Umm al-Nasr.


Around 250 mostly ramshackle houses were destroyed and 1,500
people displaced by the fetid deluge, according to the UN refugee
agency.


"We have set up a temporary camp on an elevated plateau outside
the village for fear of further collapses," said Ziad Abu Thabet,
mayor of the Bedouin farming village.


Residents were still searching for bodies in the rubble of
destroyed homes as rescue workers continued efforts to drain the
flood waters and clear away the residual dredge.


But their work was slowed by fears that unexploded artillery
shells that landed in the reservoir during last year's Israeli
siege of Gaza may have spread throughout the village with the
floodwater.


Aid organisations, including the Red Cross, United Nations, and
Doctors Without Borders, said they had set up 250 tents for
homeless villagers and were distributing food, mattresses and
fresh drinking water.


As far back as January 2004, UN aid agencies in the Gaza Strip
had warned that the north Gaza sewage treatment facility was
operating far beyond its capacity and posed a grave danger to
nearby residents.


Designed to serve just 50,000 people, the plant at that time was
handling waste from 190,000 Gaza residents.

