

East Timor's President Xanana Gusmao said Wednesday he is ready
to become the troubled country's prime minister, after he ceases
to be head of state.


Gusmao will not seek re-election in East Timor's forthcoming
April 9 presidential election and intends to join a newly formed
political party after the vote.


"I am ready to be prime minister," if the new party wins future
legislative polls, he said.


"By becoming prime minister, there will be hope for change for
the people. I will seek to improve everything," he said.


Impoverished East Timor's current premier, Jose Ramos-Horta, is
the favourite to win the presidential election. A legislative
poll is supposed to follow, but a date for it has yet to be set.


Former guerrilla leader Gusmao fought neighbouring Indonesia's
24-year occupation of East Timor and is feted by many of his
people.


Ramos-Horta was an exiled leader of the country's independence
movement and won the Nobel Peace Prize for his work.


The two men could end up swapping their current jobs if elections
in the former Portuguese colony go their way.


But the new party Gusmao wants to join, the National Congress of
Reconstruction of Timor, has already come under fire.


It has the same initials -- CNRT, based on the Portuguese version
of the name -- as a now disbanded pro-independence movement
active during the occupation.


Mari Alkatiri, the Secretary General of Fretilin, East Timor's
biggest political party, has alleged that the new party was
deliberately given a misleading name to confuse and deceive
voters.


The April election will be the first since East Timor declared
independence in 2002. Gusmao ran as an independent in a
presidential poll held prior to the declaration.

