

Saudi King Abdullah, whose country is a close US ally, on
Wednesday slammed the "illegitimate foreign occupation" of Iraq
in an opening speech to the annual Arab summit in Riyadh.


"In beloved Iraq, blood is being shed among brothers in the
shadow of an illegitimate foreign occupation, and ugly
sectarianism threatens civil war," Abdullah said.


He also said that Arab nations, which are planning to revive a
five-year-old Middle East peace plan at the summit, would not
allow "any foreign force to decide the future of the region."


In the past, Saudi leaders including Foreign Minister Prince Saud
al-Faisal have often criticised US policy in Iraq but have never
described its presence there as "illegitimate."


Arab foreign ministers meeting ahead of the summit agreed on
Monday to call for an amendment of Iraq's 2005 constitution to
give Sunni Arabs a greater share of power in the war-ravaged
country and prevent its breakup.


But Iraqi Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari responded by saying the
government did not need a "diktat" from the Arabs on how to amend
its constitution and boost national reconciliation.


The Iraqi government has initiated moves to review a de-
Baathification law in a bid to woo former members of the regime
of executed dictator Saddam Hussein back into politics and
government jobs.


Under a controversial de-Baathification law, tens of thousands of
members of Iraq's former ruling Baath party were stripped of
their posts in government, at universities and in business after
the 2003 US-led invasion.


The law has been a major source of grievance for the minority
Sunnis, who have waged a deadly insurgency against US troops and
the Shiite-led American-backed government in Baghdad.


Iraq's once-ruling Sunnis also want an amendment of the
constitution, which they fear leaves their central regions
without natural resources and Iraq's oil wealth in the hands of
the governing Shiites and the autonomous Kurds.

