

Taiwan's National Palace Museum, renowned for its collection of
ancient Chinese treasures, on Wednesday confirmed reports that
its most popular artifact had been damaged -- but no one knows
when.


A museum spokesperson said one antenna of the two grasshoppers on
a jade cabbage, which was selected the most popular item in the
museum in a 2002 vote, was snapped off in a long-forgotten
mishap.


"The damage has been there for a long while," Liu Yu-fen told
AFP.


"It can be seen in a 1966 photograph ... the damage might have
happened when it was transported from the mainland to Taiwan (in
the late 40s) or even date back to the Qing Dynasty (1644-1911),"
Liu said.


She denied press reports that the damage was inflicted during a
rare exhibition in the island's Kaohsiung city three years.


Liu insisted that "the value of the jade cabbage will by no means
be undermined by the flaw."


However, the news shocked the Taiwanese people, many of whom
compare it to the Mona Lisa in Paris.


The cabbage, which symbolises purity and prosperity, was first
found in the chamber of a concubine of Qing Dynasty Emperor Guang
Xu (1871-1908) and is believed to have been part of her dowry. It
is carved from a single piece of jade that is half grey and half
emerald green.


The item is among the museum's collection of more than 655,000
Chinese artifacts spanning 7,000 years from the prehistoric
Neolithic period to the last imperial Qing dynasty.


The National Palace Museum was founded in Beijing in 1925 and its
treasures were moved around the mainland during the Second World
War and the civil war with then ruling Kuomintang (Nationalist
Party) government.


The collection was shipped to Taiwan in 1948-1949, shortly before
the Nationalist troops fled to the island after losing the civil
war to Chinese communist forces.


The museum, re-located in Taipei's suburbs in 1965, draws more
than 1.5 million tourists a year.

