

Lam Chih-bing emerged as the second ever Singaporean to qualify
for the British Open after the final round of Asian qualifying on
Wednesday.


The Australian trio of Adam Groom, David Gleeson and Lee Won-
joon, together with Scotsman Ross Bain, have also booked their
tickets for the Open Championship at Carnoustie, Scotland in
July.


Lam blasted a six-under-par 66 in the second round for an eight-
under-par 136 total as he ended his campaign a stroke behind top
finisher Groom at the Sentosa Golf Club's Tanjong Course.


Lam will follow in the footsteps of compatriot Mardan Mamat, who
emerged as the first Singaporean to make it to the Open
Championship, back in 1997.


"This is simply great. It's going to be like a double honeymoon
for me as I'm getting married in June," said an elated Lam.


"I will spend my honeymoon with Sophie in South Africa before my
trip to Scotland. I can't wait, as it has always been my dream to
play in a major."


After a 69, the 28-year-old Groom, playing in his second straight
qualifier, was delighted with his final round performance that
included four birdies on the back nine.


"It was going on well until I struck a triple bogey on the ninth
hole. But I knuckled down on the back nine and struck four
birdies without a single bogey, so that was a good way to end the
day," said Groom.


"This is fantastic being able to make it for my first ever major.
There is going to be some change in my schedule but I'm
definitely looking forward to it," he added.


Thanks to solid iron play, Lee, who turned pro late last year,
ended his day with a 70 and was in a play-off when compatriot
Park Jun-won delivered a 68 for a 137 total in a tie for fifth
place. Lee took the final spot at the par four first play-off
hole when he sunk in a three-foot (one-metre) birdie putt as Park
parred.

