

A six-day Afghan military operation in the southern province of
Helmand left at least 122 militants and 12 police dead, the
defence ministry said Wednesday.


The operation was launched the day after the March 21 Afghan New
Year's Day and wrapped up Tuesday, defence ministry spokesman
General Mohammad Zahir Azimi said.


It cut an important Taliban supply route and destroyed militant
strongholds, he said.


The operation, called Norozi (New Year), was the first of its
kind to be conducted by the fledgling Afghan forces with NATO air
support but not ground troops.


Another 27 militants and 20 police were wounded in the sweep,
Azimi said.


"The importance for the operation is that it was the first
independent operation by Afghan forces," he said.


"We cut the enemy supplying route from south to the north of
Helmand. We also destroyed strongholds they had built about seven
kilometres (four miles) from Lashkar Gah."


The small town of Lashkar Gah is the capital of Helmand, where
military officials admit various areas are in the control of
Taliban allied with drugs traffickers.


Helmand, where most of a British deployment of more than 5,000
troops is based under NATO's International Security Assistance
Force, has seen some of the fiercest fighting this year.


ISAF launched a separate operation in the province three weeks
ago called Achilles. It says "several Taliban extremists" have
been killed but would not give numbers.


Officials say the Afghan-led operation in Helmand shows the
growing capacity of the Afghan security forces which were
destroyed during the 1992-1996 civil war that ended with the
takeover of the extremist Taliban regime.


The Taliban were toppled by US-led forces in 2001.

