

A second post mortem will be carried out on the body of Bob
Woolmer in a bid to squash wild speculation that the Pakistan
cricket coach was not murdered, reports said Wednesday.


Jamaica deputy police commissioner Mark Shields said a follow-up
examination would be conducted in order to pre-empt arguments
from defence lawyers in the event of an arrest.


"If we arrest someone and charge them, the defence counsel will
want a second post mortem," Shields was quoted as saying in the
online editions of several British newspapers.


Shields could not be immediately contacted for comment.


The second post mortem would enable authorities to release
Woolmer's body for burial in South Africa without having to wait
for an inquest, reports said.


Woolmer's body was found in his room at the Jamaica Pegasus Hotel
in Kingston on March 18. He was later declared to have been
murdered in "evil and extraordinary" circumstances.


Although there is no evidence that Kingston pathologist Ere
Seshaiah bungled his first examination, which found that Woolmer
was killed by "manual strangulation", a whispering campaign
questioning the verdict has gathered pace, according to press
reports.


Allegations have been levelled by former Test players and
International Cricket Council officials that Woolmer died of
natural causes, speculating that a broken bone in his neck may
have been caused by falling against a sink.


When asked about the speculation on Monday, Shields said he was
confident that Woolmer was murdered, citing evidence from the
crime scene not yet disclosed to the public which supported the
case.


"There is very clear evidence of murder," Shields told reporters.

