

Grant Hackett's world championships went from bad to worse with a
worrying seventh place in a failed attempt to defend his
800-metres freestyle world crown here Wednesday.


While Oussama Mellouli became Tunisia's first world swimming
champion, Hackett was flailing home in seventh place, almost 8.5
seconds behind the winner before a subdued home crowd.


Hackett, the most-decorated swimmer in world championship history
with 18 medals, including 10 golds, has now lost both his
400/800m freestyle world crowns in the space of four days at his
home world titles.


The flat performance heightens fears that Hackett's decade-long
unbeaten run in the 1500m freestyle event will come to an end on
Sunday, such is the alarming drop-off in form after a disrupted
leadup to the championships.


"Unfortunately, tonight wasn't good enough. If I had more fuel in
the tank I would have stepped it up a few places," Hackett said.


"It's extremely disappointing when you've swum almost 20 seconds
faster than that time."


Looking ahead to his signature 1500m event, Hackett said he still
had time to turn things around.


"If your career is going to span over ten years, you are going to
have a few ups and downs," he said.


"Obviously it is not an ideal position. I've just got to put my
head down for the next few days as best as I can."


Hackett is the only swimmer in history to win the same event
(1500m) in four consecutive world championships stretching back
to Perth in 1998


Denis Cotterell, his long-time coach until earlier this year,
said this week his protege is under immense pressure to maintain
a decade-long unbeaten sequence in the 30-lapper.


Hackett recently relocated to Melbourne from Queensland's Gold
Coast to be closer to his fiancee, pop singer Candice Alley.


He is also coming back from a season off with major shoulder
surgery which kept him out of last year's Melbourne Commonwealth
Games.

