

The head of the Falklands government voiced regret Wednesday at
Argentina's decision to scrap a deal with Britain to share oil
found off the islands, but downplayed the significance of the
decision.


Buenos Aires announced the move Tuesday -- days before the 25th
anniversary of the invasion of the South Atlantic islands which
Argentina still claims are its own.


But Falklands government chief executive Chris Simpkins told BBC
radio the move will have no practical impact.


"There's been no activity in that area of co-operation at all,"
he said, adding: "As far as exploration is concerned, it will
have no effect whatsoever. But we regret the announcement."


"The UK Government, who manage our foreign affairs issues, has
always wanted a full and constructive relationship with
Argentina. Certainly, these sorts of actions don't help make a
positive contribution to that desire."


Foreign Minister Jorge Taiana said Argentina decided to end the
cooperation arrangement because Britain "unilaterally" opted to
put out for public bid oil deals in the area in the South
Atlantic.


Taiana said he had informed Britain's ambassador to Buenos Aires,
John Hughes, about the decision to end the oil deal.


"As far as the Falkland Islanders themselves are concerned, it is
a rather perverse thing to think that statements like this will
encourage Falkland Islanders to be confident about sovereignty
discussions with Argentina."


Buenos Aires continues to claim sovereignty over the islands,
which the country's then military junta invaded on April 2, 1982.


More than 900 people died, including 655 Argentines, 255 British
troops and three islanders, before Argentine forces surrendered
on June 14, 1982. Argentina returned to democracy in 1983.


There was no immediate comment from the Foreign Office on the
Argentinian announcement.

