

These are the key points from the briefing Wednesday by Vice-
Admiral Charles Style, Britain's deputy chief of the defence
staff, on the capture by Iran of 15 British naval personnel at
the northern tip of the Gulf:


-- Team of seven Royal Marines and eight sailors in boats
conducted "entirely routine" boarding of Indian-flagged merchant
vessel.


-- It was "conducted in a particular area where four other
boardings have been completed recently."


-- Merchant vessel was 7.5 nautical miles (13.9 kilometres)
southeast of the Al Faw peninsula and "clearly" in Iraqi
territorial waters.


-- Ship's master has confirmed vessel was anchored within Iraqi
waters.


-- Position was 29 degrees 50.36 minutes North 048 degrees 43.08
minutes East: "1.7 nautical miles inside Iraqi territorial
waters."


-- Tehran provided position of incident within Iraqi territorial
waters Saturday.


-- London highlighted this Sunday and Tehran provided second set
of coordinates Monday, this time within Iranian waters.


-- MoD finds it "hard to understand" coordinates change and
officials "unambiguously contest" both positions.


-- As incident unfolded, one seaboat was connected via data link
and constantly communicating its position to HMS Cornwall, the
mother ship.


-- Boarding started at 0739 hours local time and ended at 0910.
Communications lost at 0910.


-- HMS Cornwall's Lynx helicopter reported seaboats being
escorted by Iranian Navy vessels towards Shatt al-Arab waterway
and inside Iranian waters.


-- Helicopter crew and merchant ship both indicated boarding
teams were ambushed while disembarking.


-- HMS Cornwall was "going about her legal business in Iraqi
territorial waters, under a United Nations Security Council
resolution, with the explicit approval of the Iraqi government."


-- Action by Iranian forces "unjustified and wrong" and "a matter
of deep concern."

