

Germany coach Joachim Loew revealed on Wednesday some of the
pressure faced by national football coaches when he admitted he
sees a psychologist to help him cope with the job.


The 47-year-old was Jurgen Klinsmann's assistant during the 2006
World Cup held in Germany and, although the unfancied team
finished a commendable third, he admitted needing professional
help to come to terms with the experience


Loew, who succeeded Klinsmann as national coach last July, is not
alone in needing a psychologist to help him with the job -
England coach Sven-Goran Eriksson also used a therapist during
his five years in charge.


"The World Cup took a lot out of me," Loew told the Germany
weekly newspaper Die Zeit.


Loew says he still feels the pressure to get results and never
appreciated the good work that was done to reach third spot.


"We could hardly be delighted just to beat Poland in the pool
stages and we constantly felt under pressure to perform, right
from the early games," he said.


"In the changing room (after the 3-1 third place victory over
Portugal), the team was delighted with the win, but we came
straight down to earth again and asked how we could do better.


"As a group, we never really gave ourselves a break and it was
incredible how hard we were on ourselves."


Loew, undefeated in eight games since taking charge, says he
still sees a psychologist "occasionally, but it is more to see
how I am doing".


In July 2006, Klinsmann turned down the chance to stay on as
German head coach saying he was burned out after two years in the
role and wanted to spend more time with his family in the United
States.


After Germany beat the Czech Republic 2-1 in Prague last
Saturday, Loew's side top their qualifying group for next
summer's European Championships and face Denmark in a friendly at
home on Wednesday.

