

The Middle Eastern-owned Asian Finance Bank on Wednesday launched
operations as Malaysia's third foreign-owned Islamic bank and
said it would use the country as a hub to expand regionally.


"Malaysia will be used as a hub for the bank to expand its
operations in countries like Indonesia, Singapore and Brunei,"
Asian Finance Bank (AFB) chief executive officer Faisal
Alshowaikh said at the launch.


The newly-formed AFB is owned by a Middle Eastern consortium led
by the Qatar Islamic Bank.


AFB was the last bank to set up shop in Malaysia after the
country decided in 2004 to issue three Islamic banking licences
to foreign players, the other two being Kuwait Finance House and
Saudi Arabia's Al Rajhi Bank.


Malaysia liberalised its Islamic banking sector three years ago
to develop and promote the nation as an international financial
centre for Muslim funds which follow principles of sharia or
Islamic law.


Alshowaikh said AFB would provide Middle Eastern investors with
investment opportunities in Malaysia and serve as a link between
the two regions.


The bank, which focuses on corporate and investment banking,
plans to establish funds to invest in properties in Malaysia.


"We would like to do at least one billion ringgit (288.83 million
dollars) worth of real estate funds ... before the end of the
year," said Salah Mohammed Jaidah, an AFB director and chief
executive of Qatar Islamic Bank.


AFB's other shareholders include RUSD Investment Bank of Saudi
Arabia and Global Investment House of Kuwait.


It plans to open up to seven branches in the country over the
next five years.

