

Swedish retail clothing giant H&M posted a 27-percent rise in
net profit in the first quarter, to 2.3 billion kronor (247.7
million euros, 329.2 million dollars), boosted by strong sales.


The cheap'n chip fashion chain had sales of 19.7 billion kronor
during the December-February quarter, up by 11.4 percent from
17.7 billion a year earlier, the company announced in a
statement.


Excluding value-added tax, the company registered sales of 16.7
billion kronor, including 9.37 billion in the euro zone
(excluding Finland), 3.25 billion in the Nordic region, and 4.14
billion in the rest of the world.


During the period, operating profit soared by 25.2 percent to 3.2
billion kronor and the operating margin climbed by 12.3 percent
to 19.2 percent from 17.1 percent the previous quarter.


H&M's pretax profit jumped by 27.2 percent, from 2.68 billion
kronor to 3.4 billion.


The group said its collections were "appreciated" by customers. A
first shoe assortment for women was delivered to 200 selected
stores during the quarter, and sales had "started very well," it
said.


During the period the group opened nine new stores and closed
three, and at the end of February it had 1,351 stores.


H&M said it planned to continue its expansion in the second
quarter, when it plans to open 75 new stores and close three.
Most of the new stores will be opened in the United States,
Britain, the Netherlands, Poland and Italy.


In March, 20 new stores had already been opened, in Hong Kong,
Shanghai, Greece, Slovakia and Qatar, it said.


Sales at its Hong Kong stores had been stronger than expected, it
added.


H&M's new chain of more exclusive stores, COS, had opened in
London in March and "the response was very positive," the company
said.


The H&M share was down by 1.24 percent at 399.50 kronor in
midday trading in Stockholm.


Peter Wallin, an analyst at Kaupthing Bank told financial news
agency AFX that "the results were good, but not exceptional, and
the share has done exceedingly well of late."

