

An extremist Kosovo Albanian group said Wednesday it plans to
stage a protest against a United Nations plan for the future
status of the disputed Serbian province.


The "Self-determination" youth movement, whose previous such
demonstration led to the deaths of two protestors in February,
said it had organised another rally for Saturday.


The group says it opposes the plan put forward by UN envoy Martti
Ahtisaari even though it offers the province supervised
independence, chiefly because it was reached in negotiations
involving Serbia.


"A demonstration will be held against Ahtisaari's package for
Kosovo," said Glauk Konjufca, a Self-determination leader.


"The package doesn't recognise Kosovo's full sovereignty" because
it ignores the ethnic Albanian majority's demands for a UN seat
and the right to conduct own foreign affairs.


"We demand the immediate fulfillment of the people's right to
self- determination."


During its last protest on February 10, two Self-determination
supporters suffered fatal head wounds from rubber bullets fired
into a crowd of 2,000 demonstrators by international police.


Its leader, Albin Kurti, was arrested at the time and remains in
detention.


On Wednesday, the United Nations mission in Kosovo said Kurti was
five days into a hunger strike, which Self-determination revealed
was in opposition to being fed food of Serbian origin.


In the plan presented to the UN Security Council and UN Secretary
General Ban Ki-moon on Monday, Ahtisaari said supervised
independence was the only viable option for Kosovo.


The United Nations has administered the Serbian province since
1999, after a NATO bombing campaign helped to drive out Serb
forces carrying out a brutal crackdown on ethnic Albanians.

