

The European Union must build stronger energy ties with ex-Soviet
Central Asia, German Foreign Minister Franz-Walter Steinmeier
told ministers from the region at a meeting here on Wednesday.


"The policy of the EU is not only to diversify the countries of
origin but also transit countries" responsible for shipping
energy supplies to the EU, Steinmeier said.


"It is therefore necessary to build up contacts with Central
Asia," he told the meeting in Kazakhstan's capital, attended by
the Kazakh, Kyrgyz, Tajik and Uzbek foreign ministers as well as
the Turkmen deputy foreign minister and EU External Affairs
Commissioner Benita Ferrero-Waldner.


EU leaders have become increasingly concerned at their dependence
on Russia for energy, particularly natural gas, after a series of
cut-offs of pipeline supplies from Russia in the last year-
and-a-half.


Central Asia holds five percent of world energy resources, making
it an obvious partner for the EU, Steinmeier said.


He said that both the EU and the Central Asian countries were
interested in the creation of a formal EU strategy on Central
Asia during the current Germany presidency of the EU.


This would include democratization efforts in the region, he
said.


But there were cautionary words on the latter from Uzbek Foreign
Minister Vladimir Norov, whose country is the subject of EU
sanctions after a violent 2005 crackdown.


Norov warned against "interference in domestic affairs" and added
"We don't have to justify ourselves. We are open to bilateral
relations in this respect."


Washington has led efforts to open new routes for bringing oil
and gas from Central Asia to international markets without going
through Russia, the region's Soviet-era power broker, but these
efforts have irritated Moscow.

