

US President George W. Bush Wednesday again warned lawmakers that
he would veto any firm timetable for withdrawing US troops from
Iraq as the Senate was poised to vote on the issue.


Bush said the budget bills have too much extra spending, "too
many conditions on our commanders, and an artificial timetable
for withdrawal."


"As I have made clear for weeks, if either version comes to my
desk, I will veto it. And it is also clear from the strong
opposition in both houses that my veto would be sustained," Bush
said in remarks released by the White House ahead of a speech
later Wednesday.


The Senate could vote as early as Wednesday on a war spending
bill that includes a deadline to withdraw US soldiers from Iraq
by March 31, 2008 after Democrats beat a Republican attempt to
take the timeline out of the legislation.


The upper chamber voted 50-48 Tuesday against a Republican
amendment that would have removed the pullout timetable from the
Iraq and Afghanistan war emergency spending bill.


"Some Democrats believe that by delaying funding for our troops,
they can force me to accept restrictions on our commanders that I
believe would make withdrawal and defeat more likely. That's not
going to happen," Bush said.


"If Congress fails to pass a bill to fund our troops on the front
lines, the American people will know who to hold responsible," he
said.


Bush, who was addressing a trade group here, has repeatedly vowed
to veto the measure if it crosses his desk.


The House of Representatives adopted on Friday another version of
the spending bill that sets an August 2008 deadline for pulling
troops out of Iraq.


"The clock is ticking for our troops in the field," Bush said.


"Funding for our forces in Iraq will begin to run out in mid-
April. Members of Congress need to stop making political
statements, start providing vital funds for our troops, and get a
bill to my desk that I can sign into law."

