

Iran on Wednesday ordered the country's Atomic Energy
Organisation to limit cooperation with the UN atomic watchdog in
response to new UN sanctions on its disputed nuclear programme.


"The decision to reduce cooperation will be effective today. The
Atomic Energy Organisation will inform the International Atomic
Energy Agency (IAEA) today," deputy government spokesman Mohammad
Paryab told AFP.


Iran had announced on Sunday that it would limit its cooperation
and would no longer inform the IAEA of new nuclear installations
until six months before they are brought into service


The move came after the UN Security Council imposed tougher
sanctions on Tehran for its continued refusal to freeze uranium
enrichment, a process at the centre of Western concerns it may be
seeking to build atomic weapons.


The resolution, agreed after days of behind-the-scenes
bargaining, blocks all Iranian arms exports and freezes the
overseas assets of 28 additional officials and institutions
linked to Iran's nuclear and ballistic missile programmes.


It also restricts financial aid or loans to Tehran, and sets a
fresh 60-day deadline for Iran to comply with UN demands or face
"further appropriate measures."


Government spokesman Gholamhossein Elham said Iran had four years
ago agreed to an arrangement whereby it would inform the IAEA of
any decision to construct a new nuclear installation.


It was not immediately clear how this would affect attempts to
monitor work on a plant at Natanz, where Iran is building an
industrial-scale plant to make enriched uranium, which can be
used for nuclear fuel or as atom bomb material.


Iran says it only wants to enrich uranium to make nuclear fuel,
denying allegations that it seeks to secretly develop atomic
weapons.

