

The dollar showed mixed fortunes on Wednesday, rising against the
euro but slightly down against the yen, ahead of a key testimony
to Congress from US Federal Reserve chief Ben Bernanke.


The euro fell to 1.3335 dollars in early European trading, from
1.3344 dollars late in New York on Tuesday.


The dollar dropped to 117.33 yen in European trade, from 117.91
yen late on Tuesday.


The price of gold climbed to 669 dollars per ounce, which was the
highest level since March 1, as the precious metal benefited from
its safe-haven status amid simmering tensions over Iran.


Many dealers were on the sidelines ahead of Bernanke's
congressional testimony later Wednesday, hoping for clues on the
US central bank's outlook for the housing market and wider
economy.


Bernanke was expected to be quizzed about the troubled US housing
situation. Congress is worried about spiking home foreclosures
and the collapse of several mortgage lenders, fearing it could
worsen a housing slump and derail the world's biggest economy.


"Any heightened concern on the subprime problem, though we don't
expect the Fed chairman to show any, would likely trigger broader
market concerns and weigh on the dollar," said Gavin Friend,
currency strategist at Commerzbank Corporates and Markets.


Elsewhere, the British pound weakened after a downward revision
to fourth quarter economic growth data and news of a larger-than-
expected current account deficit, traders said.


The current account refers to the net flow of current
transactions -- comprising goods, services, and interest payments
-- between countries.


The British economy grew by a quarterly 0.7 percent in the fourth
quarter of 2006, down from the previously recorded 0.8 percent,
although the effects of this were mitigated by upward revisions
to the first two quarters of 2006.


The current account deficit widened to hit a record 12.7 billion
pounds during the fourth quarter from 10.5 billion pounds in the
three months to the end of September.


The euro was changing hands at 1.3335 dollars, against 1.3344
dollars on Tuesday, 156.49 yen (157.38), 0.6795 pounds (0.6790)
and 1.6167 Swiss francs (1.6201).


The dollar stood at 117.33 yen (117.91) and 1.2122 Swiss francs
(1.2137).


The pound was being traded at 1.9626 dollars (1.9651).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold rose to 665.80
dollars per ounce, from 664 dollars late on Tuesday.

