

European stock markets slid on Wednesday on surging crude oil
prices, after losses across other global indices, dealers said.


Frankfurt's DAX 30 index of leading shares fell 0.37 percent to
6,833.26 points and in Paris the CAC 40 dropped 0.28 percent to
5,571.63 in early afternoon trade.


In late morning trading, London's FTSE 100 edged down by 0.01
percent to 6,292.10 points.


The DJ Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone blue chip shares decreased
0.39 percent to 4,137.56 points.


The euro stood at 1.3339 dollars.


US shares posted losses Tuesday as investors appeared unsettled
by a weaker- than-expected snapshot on consumer spending and
lingering troubles affecting the nation's housing market.


Japanese share prices closed down Wednesday on worries over the
latest weak US data and a stronger yen, while concern persisted
over rising oil prices caused by simmering tensions over Iran,
dealers said.


World oil prices rallied on Wednesday but remained beneath 69
dollars per barrel -- the level they briefly reached late Tuesday
in London following a rumour that Iran had attacked an American
ship, traders said.


Rising oil prices increase costs for companies and therefore
weigh on most share prices. However energy companies benefit as
more expensive crude increases their profits.


Anglo-Dutch energy giant Royal Dutch Shell saw its 'B' shares
jump 1.48 percent to 1,709 pence and rival BP soared 1.84 percent
to 553.5 pence in London. French peer Total rose 1.73 percent to
52.34 euros in Paris.


The mining sector meanwhile suffered on the back of easing metals
prices.


In London, Rio Tinto stock sank 2.01 percent to 2,826 pence and
Kazakhmys fell 0.69 percent to 1,145.00 pence, while shares in
steel giant Arcelor Mittal dipped 1.56 percent to 39.02 euros in
Paris.


In Frankfurt, Volkswagen shares tumbled 1.37 percent to 111.95
euros after Porsche, the German maker of luxury sports cars,
officially launched a mandatory takeover offer for Volkswagen,
Europe's biggest car maker.


But the price appeared low, suggesting that Porsche did not
really want the bid to succeed.


Stuttgart-based Porsche, which has raised its stake in VW to
30.94 percent, said in a short statement that it would offer to
buy all the remaining shares in the car maker at 100.92 euros
(134 dollars) apiece, as required by law.


In Paris The price of shares in pipe maker Vallourec rose by 2.33
percent to 180.10 euros on a broker' suggestion that the company
might be the target of a bid from steel maker Arcelor Mittal. But
the head of the steel group Lakshmi Mittal said later that his
group was not interested "for the moment".


In US deals on Tuesday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average closed
down 0.58 percent at 12,397.29 points.


The Nasdaq composite finished 0.74 percent lower at 2,437.43
points and the broad-market Standard and Poor's 500 dropped 0.62
percent at 1,428.61.


Stocks fell after the Conference Board reported that its consumer
confidence index dropped to 107.2 from 111.2 in February.


In Asia on Wednesday, Tokyo's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
closed down 0.64 percent at 17,254.73 points, extending losses
for a second straight session.


Dealers said there was also concern about choppy trade on the
Shanghai market, whose fall a month ago triggered turmoil on
global markets.


Hong Kong's key Hang Seng Index closed down 0.78 percent at
19,553.87.

