

Italian energy companies Eni and Enel have joined forces with
Russian group ESN to participate in the next auction of assets of
the stricken oil company Yukos, Russian media said on Wednesday.


The three companies have paid a 1.1-billion dollar (827 million-
euro) deposit via a joint company, Energogaz, to participate in
the auction next Wednesday, the Vedomosti newspaper reported.


Energogaz is 49-percent owned by Eni and Enel and 51-percent
owned by ESN, the paper said, citing a source close to Energogaz.


At next week's auction 22 Yukos assets will be sold as one
package, including a 20-percent stake in the oil producing arm of
the Gazprom gas giant, Gazprom Neft, and two Yukos subsidiaries,
Arktikgaz and Urengoil.


The starting price for the stake has been fixed at 5.59 billion
dollars (4.2 billion euros).


The auction continues the sale of the vast assets of Yukos, which
was Russia's largest oil producer until it was controversially
dismembered in the courts starting in 2003 and its former chief
executive, Mikhail Khodorkovsky, was jailed on embezzlement
charges.


ESN is headed by Russian billionaire Grigory Beryozkin and has
close links to Gazprom, the English-language Moscow Times said.


On Monday Eni's chief executive Paolo Scaroni met Gazprom chief
executive Alexei Miller for talks on a cooperation accord signed
last November.


In a joint statement the two companies said that Eni "is expected
to announce shortly the acquisition of assets in Russia in the
production sphere."


Gazprom and another Russian company, Novatek, are also expected
to participate at next week's auction, Vedomosti said.


At the latest auction on Tuesday, Russia's number two oil
producer Rosneft bought 9.44 percent of its own capital that had
been owned by Yukos.

