

The German government said Wednesday it was in favour of tougher
UN sanctions and, failing that, more EU sanctions against Sudan
in a bid to stop the bloodshed in Darfur.


"The German government supports the view expressed by the British
government that if the situation does not improve, we should
think about stepping up the existing UN sanctions and measures
being discussed at the United Nations," deputy government
spokesman Thomas Steg told a press briefing.


"And if this does not work, perhaps because of blockages in the
(UN) Security Council, we cannot exclude, given that this is
urgent, that the EU becomes active and makes clear that we are
not willing to allow this situation to deteriorate," he added.


Germany currently holds the presidency of the European Union.
Both  Chancellor Angela Merkel and British Prime Minister Tony
Blair on Sunday spoke out in favour of tougher sanctions.


Blair said: "We need to get a new resolution to extend the
sanctions regime against key individuals."


The UN estimates that 200,000 lives have been lost in the western
Sudanese region since ethnic minority rebels took up arms against
the Arab-dominated government in February 2003.


The government has enlisted the help of militia to put down the
uprising.


Steg said Germany was calling on Sudanese President Omar al-
Beshir to "cooperate constructively in the search for a
solution."


He said fighting was hampering efforts to help refugees in
Darfur.


"There is a willingness to help but the situation is so critical
that the help does not reach those in need," he said.


The UN Security Council in 2005 imposed an asset freeze and
travel restrictions on individuals who are accused of atrocities
in Darfur.


The EU imposed an arms embargo on Khartoum in January 2004.

