

Iraqi Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari met US State Department
Iraq pointman David Satterfield on Wednesday ahead of a trip to
Tehran to try to convince Iran to attend a conference in Egypt
next month.


The conference, scheduled for May 3 and 4 in the Red Sea resort
of Sharm el- Sheikh, is to bring together the foreign ministers
of Iraq's neighbours and major world powers in a bid to stem the
daily bloodshed in the country.


Zebari and Satterfield met in Baghdad to discuss ways of
encouraging Iraq's neighbours, particularly Iran, to attend the
negotiations, according to a statement from the Iraqi foreign
ministry.


Satterfield is US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice's senior
adviser on Iraq and a frequent visitor to Baghdad.


Shortly after the meeting Zebari flew to Iran for talks with
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and Foreign Minister Manouchehr
Mottaki to "explain the importance of next week's conference and
encourage Iran to attend," the foreign ministry said.


Tehran has expressed strong reservations about the conference,
which will include delgates from the five permanent members of
the United Nations Security Council, the Group of Eight and
Iraq's neighbours.


Iran -- which the United States accuses of aggravating the
violence in Iraq -- has demanded the release of five Iranian
officials held in Iraq by US forces and questioned the
participation of non-Middle Eastern powers.


Zebari will then travel on to Turkey to discuss the conference
with his counterpart, Abdullah Gul, and to "resolve any
ambiguities", his ministry said.

