

Tamil Tiger rebels and Sri Lankan soldiers held a truce as their
national side marched to the World Cup final, but violence broke
out soon after stumps were drawn.


Five hours after the semi-final against New Zealand ended in
Jamaica early Wednesday, two policemen were killed in a roadside
blast.


Suspected Tiger rebels set off the bomb in the eastern district
of Ampara, the defence ministry said.


Police and military officials said there were no clashes reported
during the live broadcast of the match, which Sri Lanka won to
qualify for Saturday's final in Barbados.


A military source said instructions had gone out to troops and
police to maintain a high alert, although the Tigers had
announced that they would cease action during the match.


"There were specific instructions to maintain a high alert and
ensure that men who were on duty remained in their posts and did
not scoot off to watch the match," the source said.


The Tigers had said earlier there would be no attacks while the
match was on.


"There may not be any attacks ... because we are also watching
the match," Tiger spokesman Rasiah Ilanthiriyan told AFP by
telephone from the rebel-held north of the island before the
match began on Tuesday.


Tamil Tiger supremo Velupillai Prabhakaran is believed to be a
cricket fan.


Sri Lanka's national team consists of two members of the minority
Tamil community. Religious leaders have said the multi-ethnic
side could be an example of unity to fractured nation.


However there were fears that fighting would resume before long,
with government forces expected to retaliate for a Tiger's air
strike.

