

The European single currency surged to a post-December 2004 high
against the dollar on Wednesday after a stronger-than-expected
business survey in Germany, the eurozone's biggest economy.


In early morning trade, the euro soared to 1.3656 dollars -- not
far off its record peak of 1.3666 dollars that was hit on
December 30, 2004.


The dollar is flirting with an all-time low against the euro as
investors are attracted by the likely prospect of higher eurozone
interest rates, compared with the increased chances of lower
rates in the United States.


Business confidence in Germany continued to climb in April as the
booming German economy, the biggest in the 13-country eurozone,
was bolstered by international investment, a survey showed on
Wednesday.


The widely watched business climate index, calculated each month
by the Munich- based economic research institute Ifo, rose to
108.6 points in April from 107.7 points in March.


"The higher than expected index has provided a small boost for
euro/dollar," said Calyon senior economist Stuart Bennett.


"In essence, however, the release merely confirms the bullish
outlook for German GDP (gross domestic product), cementing
expectations for a June ECB rate hike," he added.


The increase put the index just one-tenth of a point away from
the record score of 108.7 points recorded in December.


Resilient economic growth in the eurozone and expectations of
another interest rate hike by the European Central Bank (ECB) in
June have prompted many investors to ditch the dollar for the
euro, dealers said.


The euro later stood at 1.3645 dollars, compared with 1.3640
dollars in New York late on Tuesday. The dollar stood at 118.52
yen, compared with 118.55 on Tuesday.


The greenback was placed on the backfoot overnight after weak US
housing data stoked worries about the state of the world's
largest economy, dealers said.


Figures had showed Tuesday that existing US homes sales fell by
their biggest margin in over 18 years in March, tumbling 8.4
percent to an annualised pace of 6.12 million. Most economists
had expected sales would drop to 6.45 million units from 6.68
million in February.


The dollar was also depressed by a downturn in the Conference
Board's consumer confidence index to 104.0 from 108.2 in March,
marking a second straight monthly decline.


The figures fuelled jitters ahead of this Friday's key US gross
domestic product (GDP) figures for the first quarter.


The euro changed hands at 1.3645 dollars, against 1.3640 dollars
late Tuesday, 161.71 yen (161.72), 0.6808 pounds (0.6810) and
1.6422 Swiss francs (1.6386).


The dollar stood at 118.52 yen (118.55) and 1.2035 Swiss francs
(1.2013).


The pound was being traded at 2.0048 dollars (2.0023).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold decreased to
686.15 dollars per ounce, from 688.40 dollars late on Tuesday.

