

Iraqi Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari met US State Department
Iraq pointman David Satterfield on Wednesday ahead of a trip to
Tehran to try to convince Iran to attend a conference in Egypt
next month.


The conference, scheduled for May 3 and 4 in the Red Sea resort
of Sharm el- Sheikh, is to bring together the foreign ministers
of Iraq's neighbours and major world powers in a bid to stem the
daily bloodshed in the country.


Zebari and Satterfield met in Baghdad to discuss ways of
encouraging Iraq's neighbours, particularly Iran, to attend the
negotiations, according to a statement from the Iraqi foreign
ministry.


Satterfield is US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice's senior
adviser on Iraq and a frequent visitor to Baghdad.


Zebari was scheduled to visit Iran on Wednesday before heading
off to Turkey and perhaps Syria, a diplomat at the Iraqi embassy
in Tehran said last week.


Tehran has still to confirm its attendance at the conference,
which will include delgates from the five permanent members of
the United Nations Security Council, the Group of Eight and
Iraq's neighbours.


Iran -- which the United States accuses of aggravating the
violence in Iraq -- has demanded the release of five Iranian
officials held in Iraq by US forces and expressed doubts about
including non-Middle Eastern powers in the meeting.


A Turkish foreign minisry official meanwhile confirmed that
Zebari will visit Ankara on Thursday.


He is expected to meet his Turkish counterpart Abdullah Gul, but
his full itinerary was not immediately clear, the official told
AFP on condition of anonymity.

