

Afghanistan will in July hold a test-run for its first-ever full
census due next year in an essential step for rebuilding a nation
ravaged by nearly 30 years of war, a top UN official said
Wednesday.


The country conducted a partial census in 1979, the year the
Soviet army invaded unleashing a resistance war that kicked off
years of conflict.


The ouster of the 1996-2001 ultra-conservative Taliban government
brought a move towards democracy and rebuilding.


The pilot census in July is intended as a practice run for the
full count due in July 2008, UN Populations Fund executive
director Thoraya Ahmed Obaid said during a visit to Kabul.


President Hamid Karzai had said during a meeting Tuesday that the
census was "the highest priority right now for the government,"
Obaid told AFP.


"Data is the basis for nation-building," she said.


"In order for all these plans that are being put in place --
social, economic plans, employment, etc -- they need to have data
to know what is the population, who are the different segments,
what services do they need."


Latest estimates for Afghanistan's population vary from the UN's
figure of 21.8 million (2002) to 31.8 million (2007) on the CIA's
"world factbook" website.


The education ministry has volunteered all its teachers to carry
out the three- week population count, for which almost 80,000
census takers had already been selected, Obaid said.


Other volunteers were drawn from community-level structures,
which was especially important in "areas the government cannot
access easily or there are security issues," she said.


The work of UN and other agencies, such as a campaign to
eradicate polio, has been hampered in areas where the Taliban
insurgency has seen regular deadly attacks.

