

Former Malaysian deputy prime minister Anwar Ibrahim on Wednesday
complained about police harassment and phantom voters as a key
by-election campaign intensified.


Anwar was sacked and jailed by former prime minister Mahathir
Mohamad, but is staging a political comeback and leading the
opposition campaign in the ballot in rural Ijok constituency,
central Selangor state.


"Two of my rallies were stopped by the police late Tuesday. They
say we need to have a police permit," he told reporters.


Both the People's Justice Party (Keadilan), which he advises, and
the ruling National Front see Saturday's vote as a key test ahead
of general elections expected before 2009.


Late Tuesday, at the Tuan Mee palm oil estate, just south of
Ijok, police told Anwar's supporters that the rally was illegal.
Anwar cut short his speech, saying he did not want to court
trouble with the police.


"This is an election. You do not need a permit," he said.


The former deputy premier also expressed concern about phantom
voters.


"Beware of phantom voters. Thirty-one of the some 12,000 voters
are aged 100 and above. This is a world record. There is also a
voter aged eight years-old," he said. Malaysians can vote if they
are 21-years and above," he said.


Anwar said party officials had complained to the Election
Commission.


"I think the National Front is worried they may lose. So the
authorities are getting tough. Right now, if the elections are
conducted fairly, we will win," he said.


A state lawmaker's death earlier this month precipitated the by-
election in the constituency of 12,372 voters. The ruling
coalition won by 1,649 votes over People's Justice in 2004.


Ijok was once an agricultural-based constituency of rubber and
oil palm estates, but is undergoing transition. Many people now
work in factories outside the area.

