

Six candidates in Bulgaria's elections to the European Parliament
were former agents of the communist secret services, a commission
announced Wednesday.


Out of the 218 candidates running in the May 20 vote, the
commission revealed that three were former foreign intelligence
spies, one was a military intelligence agent and two others were
registered as informers at the military intelligence of the
notorious Communist-era "Darzhavna Sigurnost".


Two of the candidates listed by the commission, entitled with
opening the controversial archives, come from the ruling ex-
communist Bulgarian Socialist Party, which has already said it
would not withdraw any of its candidates if they were proven to
have collaborated with the former secret services.


One of the listed candidates is a deputy chairman of the Turkish
Minority Movement for Rights and Freedoms party and the other
three come from small right-wing parties.


The law regulating the opening of the secret archives stipulates
that any such revelation will have no legal consequences for
former informants or spies.


But three political parties have already removed one candidate
each from their electoral lists due to suspicions about their
past. Only one of the withdrawn names was among those announced
Wednesday.


Bulgaria was once one of the most faithful Soviet satellites and
its former secret services are said to have played a part in
high-profile Communist-era spy plots, such as the 1981
assassination attempt on Pope John Paul II.


Bulgaria joined the European Union on January 1.

