

Indonesian police were probing Wednesday two grenade attacks in
Aceh, the first against authorities since a 2005 peace deal in
the province quelled separatist conflict, an officer said.


A grenade exploded at the police headquarters in the capital
Banda Aceh and elsewhere the home of a deputy mayor was attacked,
police said.


Nobody was injured in the incidents but they have raised concerns
of possible renewed unrest in the province, where the peace deal
between rebels and the Indonesian government ended decades of
bloodshed.


"We still have no information about the perpetrators or the
motives for the two grenade attacks," Aceh police spokesman Jodi
Heriyadi told AFP.


Evidence gathered from both sites was being sent to a police
forensic laboratory in nearby Medan, Heriyadi said.


"The facilities to determine what type of grenades were used,
whether they were similar in both attacks and other details are
only available in Medan," he said.


One grenade hit the headquarters of a police military unit on
Tuesday, damaging three parked cars, he said.


Another was hurled late Monday at the residence of the deputy
mayor of Lokseumawe, a town some 210 kilometers (130 miles) east
of Banda Aceh, but caused minimal damage.


Hundreds of frustrated former separatist rebels went on the
rampage in January, torching cars and ransacking buildings, to
demand compensation payments to help them reintegrate into
society.


The guerrillas and the government reassessed the conflict after
the devastating 2004 Asian tsunami, which killed 168,000 people
in Aceh on the northern tip of Sumatra island.


The rebels dropped their claim for independence in return for
more autonomy under the 2005 deal. The conflict had claimed at
least 15,000 lives.

