

European Commission chief Jose Manuel Barroso plans an informal
"brainstorming session" with European leaders next month to
discuss the EU's constitution and future challenges, a
spokeswoman said Wednesday.


Barroso is inviting selected leaders to the informal mini-summit
on May 12-13 in Sintra, Portugal, which is the Commission
president's home country and which hold the EU's next six-month
presidency from July, said spokeswoman Pia Ahrenkilde.


She declined to name which EU leaders had been invited but said
that "the participation will be balanced and representative" and
that "it's good not to be too numerous."


Ahrenkilde stressed that the gathering would not be focused
exclusively on what to do about the impasse over the EU's
constitution, but also other major challenges facing Europe such
as climate change and ensuring energy supplies.


"It's a meeting about a wide range of issues relating to Europe's
future and of course Europe's institutions will be part of the
future," she said.


The constitution, which has to be ratified by all 27 members, was
supposed to give a major overhaul to the EU's institutions, but
its fate was thrown into uncertainty when French and Dutch voters
rejected it in referenda in 2005.


Germany, which holds the EU's rotating presidency until the end
of June, is desperate to find a solution to the bloc's
constitutional impasse by 2009.


Berlin started intense consultations this week with so-called
sherpas from member states to single out what parts of the
proposed constitutional treaty they want to keep or get rid of.


Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and the 17 other countries
that have already ratified the constitution want any revision to
be as close as possible to original treaty, while some countries
such as The Netherlands and the Czech Republic want a more
radical overhaul.

