

Web giant Yahoo! assigned a bigger role to its Indian unit in a
global revamp on Wednesday as it prepared to take on US rival
America Online in one of its fastest growing advertising markets.


India, where Yahoo!'s revenue tripled last year, will serve as
the hub of emerging-market operations, designing and handling
engineering products and services for countries from the
Philippines to Brazil, co-founder David Filo told a news
conference.


"There's a lot more emphasis on emerging markets because they
present the next big opportunity for us," Filo, who with Jerry
Yang co-created the Internet navigational guide in 1994, told
reporters in Bangalore.


The comments came ahead of plans by AOL to launch an India portal
called aol.in on Thursday, in its first foray into the Asia-
Pacific market.


AOL has named India its flagship market for the region and its
global chief operating officer Ron Grant will be in Bangalore for
Thursday's Indian portal launch.


Yahoo!, which has 1,000 people working in India, will commit more
resources to the Bangalore-based unit and hire more people as
part of its local expansion, said Filo, who refused to be more
specific, citing company policy.


The Sunnyvale, California-based company will on Thursday open in
Bangalore a new five-storey, 220,000-square-feet research and
development facility that can seat 1,600 people.


Yahoo! has divided its international operations into three
regions -- Asia, Europe and Emerging Markets -- as part of a
global reorganization as it tackles increasing competition from
rivals such as Google and AOL for Internet advertising.


Google also has an office in Bangalore, known as India's Silicon
Valley.

