

German club Hertha Berlin are set for a multi-million-euro cash
injection which could pave the way for Arsenal goalkeeper Jens
Lehmann to return to the Bundesliga, a report said on Wednesday.


A Hertha board meeting on Monday revealed a group of Berlin
investors are ready to pump 25 million euros into the club to
allow the mid-table Bundesliga side to clear debts and splash out
on the transfer market.


The Berliner Morgenpost reports the club want to halve their 46
-million-euro debt by 2010 and the board of directors have
approved the proposed investment which could also strengthen the
squad.


Lehmann, who has played for Schalke 04 and Borussia Dortmund, has
been a Berlin target for several months and has yet to accept
Arsenal's offer to extend his contract which runs out at the end
of the season.


Hertha are keen to attract a star of Lehmann's calibre as they
have not won the German title since 1931 and are rarely able to
fill Berlin's 70,000-capacity Olympic Stadium.


Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger has criticised Lehmann for his
short temper, which cost his club a late goal in the 2-2 draw at
Tottenham last weekend.


Lehmann, 37, received his eighth yellow card of the season, after
appearing to elbow Dimitar Berbatov during Saturday's game, and
Wenger was far from happy with his first-choice goalkeeper.


Spurs' striker Robbie Keane scored from the corner straight after
the incident and the Gunners boss believes his keeper's short
fuse is a problem.


"It is a problem with him. The time we lost before the Spurs
corner was taken made a difference," Wenger told British tabloid
The Mirror this week.

