

Seven-time former world champion Stephen Hendry fought back to a
10-7 win over little-known David Gilbert and avert a second
consecutive first-round exit from the World Championship in
Sheffield.


Hendry was knocked out by Nigel Bond at the opening stage last
year and looked in grave danger of another early defeat when he
trailed 5-1 to Gilbert in the first session.


But he had reduced his arrears to 5-4 going into Wednesday's
conclusion and although he could not shake off his opponent until
the closing stages, the Scot's vast experience ultimately carried
him over the winning line.


Playing competitively with a new cue for the first time, the 38
-year-old's highest break of the match was a mere 76 and he was
more pleased with the way he had responded to being under
pressure than the form he produced.


"I had to dig deep," said the world number one, who meets Ali
Carter or Andy Hicks in the second round on Saturday.


"I thought my attitude and concentration was fantastic through
the whole match, which is something I had been working hard on.
If my attitude had been better last year I wouldn't have lost in
the first round.


"I could easily have chucked this match at 5-1 down, so I'm
delighted with the way I dug in and won nine of the next 11
frames. I thought that was a tremendous performance."


Gilbert, 25, was devastated that he had let slip such a fine
opportunity to claim a major scalp.


"I don't know what went wrong today," said the world number 66.
"I'm disgusted with how I played there, I feel terrible. I
probably missed more balls than I potted.


"Stephen didn't play well and was there for the taking today. I
had a good night's sleep and felt good but it just didn't click
for me. He gave me plenty of chances."


On the other table Australia's Neil Robertson, the only man to
win two ranking titles this season, opened a 6-3 lead against
Ryan Day.


Robertson led 4-0 before the Welshman fought back and the
'Melbourne Machine' took the final frame of the session on a
respotted black to give himself a handy cushion ahead of this
evening's session.

