

Commonwealth Secretary-General Don McKinnon Wednesday expressed
concern over Nigeria's presidential election, which has been
criticised for alleged vote- rigging.


McKinnon said he was awaiting a full report from the
Commonwealth's team of election observers for last Saturday
election, but noted allegations of violence and vote-rigging by
poll observers.


"You have to be concerned about issues like election abuses. Yes,
our own team did say they witnessed stuffed ballot boxes. That is
not a good thing," McKinnon told AFP during a visit to Malaysia.


"We just knew, from some time ago, this was going to be a very
challenging election, whatever. And it has certainly become a
very challenging election," he said.


A Commonwealth observer team Sunday found there were "significant
shortcomings" in the conduct of the election, including
variations in the hours polling stations were open, and a lack of
secrecy in the voting.


Nigeria's president-elect Umaru Yar'Adua Tuesday has appealed for
peace amid rumblings of discontent over the poll.


Opposition parties are planning court appeals against the results
and have called for peaceful street protests, and McKinnon said
Commonwealth countries were worried about the prospect of
widespread unrest.


The New Zealander said he had spoken to the head of the
Commonwealth's election observer team and that he was awaiting
their assessment on whether the poll reflected "the reasonable
wishes of the people."


The secretary-general arrived in Malaysia Monday as part of a
last regional tour including Singapore and Brunei before he steps
down from the post early next year. He has served since 1999.

