

Nepal's government has launched a probe into ethnic unrest in the
south of the country that has killed at least 60 people and cast
a shadow over a landmark peace deal, a minister said Wednesday.


"The cabinet meeting Wednesday agreed to form a commission headed
by a Mahadhesi judge to address the problems of Mahadhesi people
and the ongoing unrest," Rajendra Mahato, Nepal's Minister for
Industry Commerce and Supplies, told AFP.


Nepal's Mahadhesi community dominate the lowland plains region
bordering India and have long complained of being
underrepresented in government.


Unrest flared in January after former rebel Maoist activists
killed a Mahadhesi protester.


"The structure of the commission will be decided in the next
cabinet meeting," said Mahato, one of only four Mahadhesi
ministers in the 22-member interim government sworn in at the
start of April.


The Mahadhesi People's Rights Forum (MJF), an ethnic activist
group, has been at the head of the protests and is calling for
greater government representation and increased autonomy for the
Terai region.


The region is home to nearly 50 per cent of Nepal's 27 million
population and known as the country's breadbasket.


Since January, around 60 people have been killed in the unrest,
including at least 27 Maoist activists who were killed in one
clash in late February.


The United Nations human rights body released a report into the
massacre of Maoist activists last week, and said that that
Nepal's police had failed in their duties, and called on the
government to mount an investigation into the killings.


The unrest in the region has cast a shadow over a landmark peace
deal struck in November 2006 between former rebel Maoists and the
mainstream political parties. The accord put an end to a decade
of civil war.

