

Dutch bank ABN Amro said on Wednesday it has agreed to meet three
banks led by Royal Bank of Scotland which are proposing a record-
breaking counter bid to an agreed takeover by Barclays.


"ABN Amro confirms that it has received a letter from Royal Bank
of Scotland, Banco Santander and Fortis in which an indicative
price per share is mentioned for the first time in relation to a
potential transaction with ABN Amro," the bank said.


"We have invited them (the banks) to a meeting in Amsterdam
today."


The three banks have proposed a 72-billion-euro takeover for ABN
Amro priced at 39 euros per share, outgunning a rival bid by
British bank Barclays that has been accepted by the ABN Amro
management.


Barclays has offered 36.25 euros per share on the condition that
ABN Amro sells its US banking unit LaSalle Bank before the merger
is completed.


But the Dutch shareholders association VEB threatened on
Wednesday to take legal action against ABN Amro unless
shareholders were allowed to vote on the sale of LaSalle Bank at
ABN's general assembly on Thursday.


ABN Amro has agreed to sell LaSalle Bank to Bank of America for
21 billion dollars (15.5 billion euros), a move seen as a poison
pill to deter the RBS-led consortium from launching a hostile
takeover bid.


RBS is particularly interested in the LaSalle Bank, analysts
believe.


"The sale of LaSalle for 21 billion dollars to Bank of America
(is) a major transaction that must be put up for approval at the
shareholders meeting," said VEB in a statement.


"If ABN Amro refuses to respond to this request, VEB intends to
take legal action in order to force it to respect this obligation
that it has towards all of its shareholders."

