

Taiwan's electronics major BenQ Corp said Wednesday it managed to
narrow its net loss to 1.76 billion Taiwan dollars (53 million
US) in the 2007 first quarter due to an improvement on the non-
operating front.


The figures compared with a net loss of 7.89 billion dollars from
the previous quarter, as the company's net non-operating loss
fell to 68 million dollars from 6.72 billion.


BenQ's non-operating items mainly refer to interest expenses and
long-term investments.


"Our first-quarter gross margin improved despite a 15 percent
quarter-on-quarter decline in sales," said chief financial
officer David Wang.


The gross margin expanded to 9.1 percent in the first three
months of the year from 8.6 percent in the previous quarter.


BenQ announced in September 2006 the closure of its German mobile
phone division, just a year after buying it from German group
Siemens, while assessing its operations in other countries.


In Taiwan, the company is facing an ongoing government probe into
alleged insider trading involving sales of some seven million
company shares by its executives.


BenQ, which also makes flatscreen TVs, scanners and CD-Rom
drives, is struggling to establish itself in the mobile phone
market where it trails behind Nokia, Motorola and Samsung.


Separately, BenQ Corp is planning a 40 percent reduction in paid-
in capital in a bid to riase its net worth to about 11.30 dollars
per share, said company chairman K.Y. Lee.


The proposal is pending approval by shareholders at an annual
general meeting set for June 15.


The prospective 10.26 billion dollars capital cut is meant to
help accommodate BenQ's cumulative losses.


BenQ's board has also separately proposed a spin-off for its
branded operations, reversing an earlier plan to spin off its
contract-manufacturing operations.


Lee said BenQ's assets are now mainly converged in its contract-
making business after it suffered setbacks in the mobile phone
market.

