

Elements of a 'mixed' army brigade of soldiers and former rebels
fired at a United Nations helicopter in the Democratic Republic
of Congo, the UN said on Wednesday.


On April 19, a reconnaissance patrol from the UN mission in DRC
(Monuc) was hit by small-calibre fire while flying over territory
occupied by men loyal to former rebel general Laurent Nkunda,
spokesman Major Gabriel De Brosses said.


"The Monuc pilots were restrained and, with great self-
possession, did not fire back as they are allowed to" under their
rules of engagement, he told a news conference.


"Nevertheless, Monuc highlights the fact that all direct threats
to its personnel may prompt an immediate response, (that is)
appropriate and proportionate," he said.


The targeted patrol over the Tebero region, in the volatile
eastern province of Nord-Kivu, included two combat helicopters
and one for reconnaissance.


"The given reasons (for the attack) were because the soldiers
felt there was a threat. This explanation is unfounded," De
Brosses said.


He added that Monuc's commander, General Babacar Gaye, had
written to his army counterpart calling for "the highest
discipline" regarding UN patrols.


The creation of mixed brigades began in Nord-Kivu in January,
bringing together army troops and former rebels loyal to tutsi
general Nkunda as part of a national reconciliation strategy
following DRC's five-year civil war.


Clashes between the army and Nkunda's forces late last year
killed more than 170 people and displaced about 100,000 in the
region.


Rwandan hutu rebels in Nord-Kivu are opposed to the mixed
brigades and clashes occur frequently. On April 13, seven
soldiers of Alpha brigade were killed in an ambush blamed on the
Democratic Liberation Forces of Rwanda.

