

Hong Kong share prices closed 0.18 percent weaker Wednesday on
worries the mainland could see a significant correction if the
Chinese government announces further macro-economic controls,
possibly during the golden week holidays next week, dealers said.


Any sharp fall on the Shanghai market will have a spillover
effect on Chinese firms listed here, they said.


Investors were also cautious ahead of the expiry of April futures
contracts and the release of key US economic data later in the
week.


The benchmark Hang Seng index closed down 36.02 points at
20,536.78. Turnover was 44.39 billion Hong Kong dollars (7.8
bilion US dollars).


"While the market came off sharp falls, sentiment was however
weak. This was due mainly to worries of a possible sharp
correction in the Shanghai market which could have a spillover
effect and pull down H-shares in Hong Kong," said Howard Gorges,
vice chairman at South China Securities.


"Many investors are speculating that Chinese authorities might
adopt measures during the holidays next week to keep a tighter
rein on the economy and the stock markets," he said.


China's stock markets will be closed from May 1 to 7 in an
extended break following Labor Day.


Gorges said that Chinese authorities may opt for incremental
moves, such as raising interest rates and banks' reserve ratio
requirements.


He said the settlement of April futures contracts on Friday and
the release of more US economic data in the next few days added
to general investor caution.


Among large-caps, China Mobile closed down 0.35 dollars at 73 and
HSBC fell 0.10 at 144.40.


China financials were mostly lower, with China Construction Bank
down 0.02 at 4.87, China Merchants down 0.22 at 19.18, Bank of
China down 0.02 at 3.92 and China Life down 0.05 at 25.25.


Local banks traded mixed, with Hang Seng Bank down 0.10 at
111.50, Bank of East Asia flat at 48.20 and BOC Hong Kong up 0.02
at 19.36.


Among properties, Cheung Kong was up 0.80 at 103.50, Sun Hung Kai
was down 0.35 at 92 and Sino Land was down 0.08 at 16.62.


Dealers said that investors sought refuge in utility stocks which
are usually stable and weather market fluctuations.


CLP Holdings was up 0.55 at 58.80 and Hong Kong China Gas was up
0.16 at 18.64.


Lifestyle International finished up 1.40 at 26.80, off a high of
27.10, after announcing plans to expand its department stores
business on the mainland.


SMIC was down 0.03 at 1.12 after reporting a net loss of 44.11
million US dollars for 2006, against a restated loss of 114.78
milion dollars a year earlier.

