

Europe's main stock markets headed higher on Wednesday as
investors reacted to news of a takeover battle for control of
Dutch banking titan ABN Amro, dealers said.


Three European banks led by Britain's Royal Bank of Scotland
(RBS) opened a blockbuster takeover war for ABN Amro with a
72.0-billion euro bid, eclipsing an agreed offer from Barclays by
five billion euros.


In late morning deals, London's FTSE 100 index of leading shares
gained 0.44 percent at 6,457.70 points, Frankfurt's DAX 30 added
0.59 percent to 7,313.29 and the Paris CAC 40 increased 0.73
percent to 5,929.23 points.


In Dutch trade, the Amsterdam Exchanges Index jumped 0.64 percent
to 535.99 and Madrid's Ibex 35 index won 0.09 percent to
14,591.70 points.


The euro was strong at 1.3638 dollars, which was not far off its
all-time high of 1.3666, following a stronger-than-expected
German business survey.


Wall Street finished mixed Tuesday as positive earnings news
helped offset weak reports on the housing market and consumer
confidence, with the key blue-chip index flirting anew with the
13,000 level.


Japanese share prices closed in the red on Wednesday as investors
fretted over the health of the US economy and the start of the
domestic corporate results season, dealers said.


In Amsterdam, shares in Dutch bank ABN Amro surged 4.17 percent
to 36.46 euros.


The RBS consortium, which also comprises Dutch-Belgian group
Fortis and Banco Santander of Spain, said its ABN takeover
proposal was pitched at 39 euros per share, compared with
Barclays' offer of 36.25 euros per share.


In London, RBS shares sank 0.55 percent to 2,002 pence on news of
the informal bid, while Barclays rose 0.84 percent to 718.5
pence. In Madrid, Banco Santander shares added 0.45 percent to
13.42 euros.


However, back in Amsterdam, Fortis stock slipped 1.68 percent to
33.91 euros.


Elsewhere, other European banks were lifted by the bid news.


In Paris, Societe Generale stock soared 2.52 percent to 152.74
euros, while Deutsche Bank added 0.73 percent to 718.5 euros in
Frankfurt.


Back in London, supermarket retailer and takeover target J
Sainsbury saw its share price rocket 7.08 percent to 567.5 pence
after a key shareholder offloaded a significant stake, dealers
said.


In US deals on Tuesday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average closed
0.27 percent higher at 12,953.54 after hitting an all-time
intraday high of 12,989.86 points.


The Nasdaq composite eked out a gain of 0.03 percent to 2,524.54
while the broad-market Standard and Poor's 500 index lost 0.03
percent to 1,480.42 points.


In Asia on Wednesday, the Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index
of leading shares fell 1.24 percent to 17,236.16 points. Hong
Kong's key Hang Seng index closed down 0.18 percent at 20,536.78.

