

The Council of Europe investigator who probed allegations of
illegal CIA activities in Europe criticised Wednesday the secrecy
surrounding a United Nations blacklist of suspects with terrorism
links.


The secret UN list currently counts 362 people and 125 companies
or organisations who "are not informed or given a chance to be
heard, and there is no appeal," Dick Marty said in a written
statement.


He denounced it as a "flagrant injustice", in the statement
released here on the sidelines of a Council of Europe conference
on the causes of terrorism.


Marty added that the UN's blacklisting procedure was a "dangerous
ongoing erosion of fundamental rights and freedoms, even within
the instances mandated to protect and promote them."


It also discredited the international fight against terrorism, he
said.


The black list which leads to the freezing of assets and a travel
ban was created by a New York-based committee, set up in 1999 to
oversee the implementation of sanctions against the Taliban.


Since 2005, the committee's role has been extended to include all
individuals, groups or bodies associated with Al-Qaeda, Osama bin
Laden or the Taliban.


Marty pointed out that Britain, France and Russia, as permament
members of the UN Security Council and members of the pan-
european Council of Europe, were bound by the European Convention
on Human Rights which guarantees the right to a fair trial to
all, including the right to be heard.


He also announced he would widen his inquiry to a separate
European Union blacklist which currently has  26 individuals and
28 organisations, including the Basque ETA organisation and the
Palestinian movement Hamas.


However, unlike the UN, the EU said Monday it would send those on
the list a letter to explain their inclusion.

