

Malaysia has lodged a protest with the BBC for airing interviews
with "rejected" leaders of opposition political parties, state
media reported Wednesday.


Information Minister Zainuddin Maidin criticised the British
broadcaster for giving air time to opposition leaders he said had
been "rejected" by voters -- a veiled reference to ex-deputy
premier Anwar Ibrahim.


He also said the move by the BBC would undermine bilateral
relations between Malaysia and Britain, the state Bernama news
agency reported.


"It would be appropriate if the air time was given to the
opposition political parties that had a place in politics in
Malaysia but why focus on people who have been rejected?"
Zainuddin was quoted as saying by Bernama.


"What is the objective of the BBC in doing so?" he said.


Zainuddin, who recently visited the BBC during a working visit to
London, said the broadcaster was not respecting the democratic
decisions of Malaysians by featuring "rejected" opposition
leaders.


He said he had protested the matter personally to a BBC editor
while on his visit, according to Bernama.


The BBC in March aired an interview with Anwar in which he vowed
to return to Malaysia's political stage, criticised the
government on a range of issues, and accused it of corruption and
nepotism.


Anwar was sacked from his post in 1998 by then premier Mahathir
Mohamad amid sodomy and corruption allegations, charges his
supporters say were trumped up.


Malaysia keeps a tight control on its mainstream media and
opposition parties say they often face a media blackout.


However, Malaysians still have access to overseas news channels
such as the BBC and CNN via private cable television.

