

AC Milan hardman Gennaro Gattuso has warned Manchester United to
steel themselves for an almighty battle when they visit the San
Siro for the second leg of their Champions League semi-final.


The tie is delicately poised after United's 3-2 win at Old
Trafford on Tuesday, although Wayne Rooney's stoppage-time winner
makes the English club marginal favourites to advance to next
month's final in Athens.


But Gattuso, who was badly missed after being forced off with a
foot injury shortly before Rooney claimed the first of his two
goals on Tuesday, insisted the Italians could still clinch their
third final appearance in five years.


"There's a week to go and I will do everything to be there," the
World Cup winner said.


"It hurt watching from the bench and seeing us lose to a goal in
the final minute.


"But we can take a lot of positives from Tuesday night, to face a
great team and go back home with two away goals.


"To get to the final now we need a great performance. It will be
a battle, but 1-0 is good enough for us and I'm sure the San Siro
crowd will give us a helping hand."


Both of Milan's goals were the result of the brilliance of their
Brazilian playmaker Kaka.


"He does things other players cannot even conceive of," said
Milan coach Carlo Ancelotti.


Kaka himself however was critical of his own performance,
admitting he should he have made more of two good second-half
chances to complete his hat-trick before United turned a 2-1
deficit into victory on the night.


"We stopped playing in the last half hour and I also felt my own
performance dip," the Brazilian said.


"But we can take a lot of encouragement from our performance, and
that will fire us up for the second leg."


The devout Christian added: "I have faith in my team and I feel
we will go through. Many people wrote us off when we drew at home
to Bayern Munich in the last round, and we played an amazing
match in the second leg (winning 2-0 in Bavaria) to reach the
semi-finals."

