

Former Russian president Boris Yeltsin was buried Wednesday at
Moscow's Novodevichy cemetery in a ceremony attended by two
former US presidents and numerous other foreign dignitaries,
Russian television showed.


Yeltsin's casket was lowered into the ground to the accompaniment
of the Russian national anthem and three salvos fired from a row
of cannons positioned nearby, as his widow, Naina, and two
daughters looked on.


The coffin was brought to the cemetery on a gun carriage guarded
by goose- stepping soldiers and followed in procession by bishops
clad in white robes, family members and guests including
President Vladimir Putin and former US president George H.W.
Bush.


A lone church bell tolled and a military brass band played a
dirge as the slow procession entered the cemetery, the burial
place of many eminent Russians.


Members of the public lined the route, throwing red carnations
ahead of the coffin's route.


Arriving at the burial place, the Russian tricolour flag covering
the coffin was removed and it was kissed by Yeltsin's widow.


A choir of nuns sang funeral chants, as she went over to her
husband's coffin and bent over him, stroking his face and kissing
him.


The coffin lid was then screwed down before it was slowly lowered
into the ground.


Also among the mourners were former US president Bill Clinton as
well as former British prime minister John Major and several
leaders of other ex-Soviet states.


The area of Moscow around the cemetery was under heavy guard for
Yeltsin's funeral on Wednesday, which was broadcast live on all
national television channels.

