

Arab Israeli leader Azmi Bishara is being probed for allegedly
helping Hezbollah during the recent war in Lebanon, police
sources said Wednesday, after a gag order on details of an
inquiry was lifted.


"He's under investigation on suspicion of assisting an enemy
during a time of war and contacting an enemy agent, of money
laundering and financing terror," the source told AFP.


The official was speaking after an court in the town of Petah
Tikva partially lifted a gag order on details of an investigation
into Bishara, who resigned his seat in the Israeli parliament
earlier this week.


"He's suspected of passing information onto Hezbollah during the
second Lebanon war and receiving money in exchange," the police
source added.


Several weeks after Israel and the Shiite militia Hezbollah ended
their war in Lebanon last August, Bishara and two other MPs from
his Balad party paid a controversial visit to Syria and Lebanon
in defiance of the Israeli ban.


Israel is officially in a state of war with both countries. Its
citizens are not allowed to visit "enemy states" without
permission from the authorities.


A parliamentary official confirmed on Monday that the Israeli
justice ministry had requested Bishara's office in the Knesset be
sealed off for the duration of the investigation.


Despite a March 26 gag order against reporting details of the
investigation, Israeli media had speculated that Bishara could
face charges ranging from corruption to treason following an
unauthorised trip to Syria.


Israel's Supreme Court in 2006 threw out legal proceedings
against Bishara for backing "popular resistance" against Israel
while on a visit to Syria in June 2001, ruling that his statement
was not an incitement to violence.


In April 2003, another court dismissed charges against him for
organising "illegal" trips to Syria, given his then parliamentary
immunity.

