

Portsmouth have unveiled plans to build a new 36,000-seater
stadium, a move that will end their 108-year stay at Fratton
Park.


The new ground, which the club want to build on a 13-acre site
adjacent to the city's naval dockyards, will be part of a 600
-million-pound project also involving the construction of
approximately 1,500 apartments, as well as restaurants, cafes and
other leisure amenities.


Under the joint venture with Sellar Property Group, the
20,000-capacity Fratton Park will be demolished, with around 750
homes being built on the site.


Both the `Waterfront Quarter' project and the redevelopment of
tumbledown Fratton Park are subject to planning permission.


Applications for the proposed developments will be submitted in
the autumn, following consultation with stakeholders.


If given the go-ahead, work could get under way by summer 2008,
and construction of the new stadium the following year.


The club anticipate Pompey will be playing in the new stadium by
2011.


Chief executive Peter Storrie said: "This will be the most
spectacular stadium, set against the backdrop of the harbour and
the English Channel befitting the club's history.


"The club will be playing a big part in the regeneration of the
city and our fans will have the very best in terms of facilities
and amenities as well as an excellent viewing experience.


"Portsmouth Football Club is moving into a new dawn with the
backing of owner Alexandre Gaydamak and these are very exciting
times for the club both on and off the field."


Franco-Russian businessman Sacha Gaydamak bought out former owner
Milan Mandaric's remaining shares earlier this year after paying
around 16 million pounds for a half-stake in the club in January
2006.

