

Several European MPs on Wednesday urged EU leaders to call for
the resignation of World Bank president Paul Wolfowitz,
currently embroiled in a pay scandal involing his girlfriend, a
former bank employee.


The call came ahead of an EU-US summit in Washington on Monday,
with the Euro MPs saying the meeting should be used to press for
the removal of the former US deputy secretary of defense.


"The World Bank has a crucial role to play in fighting
corruption. In light of the current allegations, Mr Wolfowitz has
to go," Dutch Euro MP Jan Wiersma told colleagues in Strasbourg
during a debate on transatlantic relations ahead of the summit.


A day earlier Martin Schulz, leader of the parliament's socialist
group, told reporters that Wolfowitz's position was "untenable in
the middle- or long-term."


Graham Watson, leader of the liberal and democrats alliance in
the European Parliament, said the EU negotiators "should dare to
take the initiative" in Washington.


"Our message for him must be -- it is time for you to go," he
said.


By contrast Joseph Paul, head of the biggest group in parliament,
the Conservative European People's Party, did not mention
Wolfowitz in his speech.


The revelation that Wolfowitz arranged a salary worth nearly
200,000 dollars for his girlfriend Shaha Riza in 2005 has left
him open to accusations of hypocrisy as he steers a controversial
campaign against corruption in the World Bank's lending.


Despite documents that have demonstrated his intervention in
Riza's compensation, Wolfowitz has steadfastly refused to step
down and has instead hired a top defense lawyer, Robert Bennett,
to represent him as the bank reviews his actions.


Wolfowitz was named to the World Bank job in 2005 after being one
of the most hawkish proponents of the US war in Iraq.

