

Deutsche Bank, Germany's largest lender, said Wednesday it had
reinforced capital at its Indian unit by pumping in 6.25 billion
rupees to meet growing credit demand in the country.


The infusion of funds is the second since the bank injected 5.0
billion rupees (120 million dollars) into its Indian branches in
December 2006.


Deutsche Bank India's capital funds will rise to about 24 billion
rupees after the latest transfer, the bank said in a statement.


"Our large capital infusion programme is a reiteration of India
being a global priority market for Deutsche Bank and a clear
indicator to the bank's strong growth in the country," said Gunit
Chadha, who heads the Indian operation.


The capital infusion will allow Deutsche Bank to offer greater
"financing for our corporate, institutional and retail clients,"
Chadha said.


Overseas banks are reinforcing capital with remittances from
headquarters to meet increasing demand for credit from Indian
companies and consumers.


The banks also need to comply with central bank rules requiring
them to hold more capital against some classes of consumer loans,
including mortgages assigned a greater default risk as interest
rates have risen.


The additional capital "will facilitate an increase in single
borrower limits and risk assets," said Deutsche Bank's Chadha.


"We strongly believe in India's growth and its potential and are
committed to growing our already significant and diversified
engagement here," he added.


Deutsche Bank, which has recently launched consumer banking and
credit cards in India, also offers corporate banking, investment
banking, asset management and private wealth management services
in the country.


The bank has had a presence in India since 1980.

