

The supervisory board of Siemens, Europe's biggest engineering
company, was meeting on Wednesday to discuss the future of the
scandal-hit group's chief executive Klaus Kleinfeld.


Although Kleinfeld, 49, has not been personally implicated in a
spiralling slush fund affair at the company, observers said he
may be forced to stand down and pay the price for the scandal at
one of Germany's industrial jewels.


Kleinfeld's contract runs out September 30 and has yet to be
extended.


The company has confirmed that a decision would be made on
whether to extend or terminate his tenure at Wednesday's meeting.


Yet he remains popular with many Siemens shareholders, who have
seen stock in the company steadily increase in value.


That trend continued on Tuesday when the engineering giant posted
better than expected returns for the second quarter of the
2006-2007 fiscal year.


Net earnings rose 36 percent on January-March the preceding year
to 1.26 billion euros, well above the 1.15 billion expected by
analysts.


Siemens' former chief executive and the current head of the
supervisory board, Heinrich von Pierer, was to formally announce
on Wednesday that he is quitting.


Von Pierer has said he hopes his own departure will help the
company pull itself out of the growing mire of corruption
allegations.


The scandal deepened in late March when a Siemens board member,
Johannes Feldmayer, was arrested and kept in custody as part of a
probe into alleged payments made to a union official.


Prosecutors have also raided Siemens offices in Munich, Erlangen
and Nuremberg.


In a separate case, prosecutors are investigating whether company
managers skimmed off as much as 200 million euros.


Kleinfeld has even brought in private investigators in an attempt
to clean up the company.


Siemens, which employs more than 450,000 people worldwide, builds
trains, power plants and manufactures medical and
telecommunications equipment.

