

The Eritrean Orthodox Church has elected a new patriarch, the
information ministry said, replacing a deposed leader opposition
groups claim was sacked under pressure from state authorities.


The church's synod unanimously elected Abune Dioskoros last week,
according to an Internet statement posted late Tuesday, to
replace Abune Antonios who was removed from his post in January
last year.


"His Holiness Abune Dioskoros has been elected fourth Patriarch
of the Eritrean Orthodox Tewahdo Church, that was unanimously
approved by the Holy Synod," the information ministry said in the
statement.


Dioskoros will be formally installed next month, it added.


The Eritrean opposition and Amnesty International said Antonios
was removed from his post due to his criticism of alleged state
interference in church activities, a claim vehemently denied by
Asmara.


A statement signed by priests, monks and deacons of the church
and posted on an opposition website said the new appointment
"flagrantly violated" the rights of the church.


"The hijacking of the church by the government that has been
underway for quite sometime is now completed," the statement
said.


Antonios, who is still recognised as the church's legitimate head
by the Coptic Orthodox headquarters in the Egyptian city of
Alexandria, has been held under house arrest since January,
according to Amnesty.


Religion is a particularly sensitive topic in Eritrea, where the
government wants national unity among its 4.2 million population,
officially split equally between Islam and Christianity.

