

South Africa has achieved much since the end of apartheid but
still has serious problems to overcome, former president FW de
Klerk said Wednesday as his country prepared to celebrate the
anniversary of its first democratic elections.


"If I were to draw a balance sheet, then the positive
(developments) by far outweigh the negative," De Klerk told AFP
on the sidelines of an international conference on democracy and
development in the Qatari capital, Doha.


Freedom Day on April 27 marks the 13th anniversary of the 1994
all-race vote which brought Nelson Mandela and his African
National Congress to power.


De Klerk was upbeat in his review of how South Africa has fared
since the historic poll.


"We are back in the international community, our economy is
growing at an impressive rate of around six percent in real terms
and there is a great deal of good will about," he said.


But the former president, who with Mandela was awarded the Nobel
Peace Prize in 1993 for their roles in negotiating an end to
apartheid, warned that some grave issues still needed to be
tackled.


These included an "unacceptably high" crime rate, the spread of
HIV/AIDS and the fact that 50 percent of the population is living
on or below the poverty line.


Some 5.5 million people are living with HIV in South Africa, a
country in which around 50 people are murdered every day and half
a million burglaries or robberies were reported last year.


Approximately 50,000 rapes, including around 20,000 of children,
are reported to police every year, but women's groups say the
real figure is around 1.5 million.


De Klerk said these issues were being addressed through better
funding for the police, improved action plans for the treatment
and prevention of HIV/AIDS, and job creation.


Frederik de Klerk was the last president of apartheid South
Africa, serving from 1989 to 1994 before his appointment as one
of two deputy presidents under Mandela.

