

Estonia on Wednesday refused entry to nine suspected extremists,
as security was stepped up at borders and in the capital ahead of
excavation work at a controversial Soviet war monument, officials
said.


"Nine people were barred from entering Estonia Wednesday" at the
country's southern border with Latvia, Riin Kiik, spokeswoman for
the Estonian border guard, said in a statement.


"We have reason to believe that these people could belong to
extremist groupings and pose a threat to law and order," she
said.


Last week, the Estonian authorities announced they will start
excavations to see if any fallen soldiers are buried beneath a
huge statue in the centre of Tallinn commemorating Soviet Red
Army soldiers who drove the Nazis out of Estonia at the end of
World War II.


Besides planning to exhume any soldiers who might be buried
beneath the statue, called the Bronze Soldier, Estonia wants to
move the monument from the busy public transport hub where it now
stands to a less prominent location in Tallinn.


That plan has provoked angry outbursts from Moscow, which sees
the monument as a memorial to those who defeated fascism in World
War II.


Many Estonians view the statue as a painful reminder of nearly
five decades of occupation by the Soviets, which began at the end
of the war and only ended in 1991 when the USSR crumbled.


In a sign that digging was about to begin at the statue, police
reinforcements have been sent to Tallinn from other regions of
Estonia.


Russian activists have threatened to come to Estonia to "defend"
the monument, which the Estonian authorities have said could be
moved to a military cemetery in a quiet neighbourhood of Tallinn.

