

Thousands of people rallied in downtown Taipei on Saturday
against moves by the government to downplay the legacy of former
president Chiang Kai-shek.


Supporters of the opposition Kuomintang (KMT), Chiang's party,
gathered in front of the Chiang Kai-shek Memorial Hall dressed in
the KMT's traditional blue.


"The Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) is wrong to eliminate
Chiang's legacy. The DPP is wrong to create hatred in Taiwan. The
DPP is wrong to provoke confrontation," said KMT lawmaker John
Chiang, the late leader's grandson and an organiser of the event.


The rally came after a string of name-changes and removal of
Chiang's statues by the DPP which the opposition said is aimed at
cutting off the island's Chinese roots.


The name "Chiang Kai-shek" was dropped from the international
airport in northern Taoyuan county last year while the
authorities are also planning to rename Chiang's Memorial Hall in
Taipei to "Taiwan Democracy Hall."


Hundreds of Chiang's statues were removed from all military
premises last month while a seated statue of Chiang, the largest
of its kind here, was recently dismembered and removed from a
cultural centre in southern Kaohsiung despite an outcry from the
KMT.


The DPP insists that as a democratic country, Taiwan has no need
for statues of the former "dictator."


Chiang died in 1975 after ruling the island for 26 years. His son
Chiang Ching- kuo became president in 1978 and died in 1988.


The KMT's 51-year grip on power was ended when Chen Shui-bian
from the independence-leaning DPP was elected in 2000. He was re-
elected in 2004.


The KMT favours friendly ties with China, which considers the
island part of its territory awaiting reunification despite their
split in 1949 at the end of a civil war.

