

The White House on Saturday increased pressure on Democrats to
approve a war spending package for Iraq and Afghanistan and
criticized lawmakers for taking a vacation before the matter is
resolved.


Lawmakers are "asking the military to start making painful and
unacceptable cuts so that they can make a political statement,"
the White House said in a statement.


The Democrat-led House of Representatives and Senate have each
passed war spending bills that tie the release of more than 120
billion dollars in military spending to a timetable for pulling
troops out of Iraq in 2008.


President George W. Bush has repeatedly vowed to veto the
legislation if it crosses his desk, a pledge he first made 23
days ago because "it handcuffs our commanders on the ground in
Iraq," the statement said.


"Democrats in Congress have spent this time debating pork-filled
legislation that they know will never become law," the White
House said, referring to numerous added clauses in the bill that
allocate funds for local "pork" projects inside the United States
which have no connection to military needs.


Congress was "saying the military can theoretically continue the
war on terror as long as it makes sacrifices that adversely
impact training and readiness," it said.


"By leaving town before passing an emergency funding bill,
Democrats in Congress are denying our troops on the battlefields
of Afghanistan and Iraq what their commanders say they need by
mid-April."


Members of Congress left Washington Friday for the Easter recess.
The Senate is due to return on April 10, while the House will be
back the following week.

