

Rafa Benitez admitted Liverpool had been on a revenge mission
after Peter Crouch's hat-trick inspired a 4-1 rout of Arsenal on
Saturday.


Benitez's side had suffered three dismal defeats against Arsenal
this season as the Gunners knocked them out of the FA and League
Cups at Anfield, as well as inflicting a 3-0 thrashing in the
league.


But Crouch ensured Liverpool got a measure of revenge with his
first hat-trick for the Reds to hand Arsenal their biggest league
loss for six years.


Daniel Agger had scored Liverpool's third goal after Crouch's
first half double. William Gallas pulled one back, but Crouch had
the last word with a fine finish.


Benitez said: "It was a difficult game but we knew what to do to
win. We were confident we could get revenge and beat them.


"When you score the game changes. The team starts to play with
confidence."


Benitez played down fears over Steven Gerrard's fitness for
Tuesday's Champions League clash against PSV Eindhoven after the
midfielder was forced off after just 56 minutes.


"I don't think it will be serious," he said. "He will be OK. We
were trying to protect all the players."


Crouch, who scored the perfect treble - one goal with his right
foot, one with his left and a header, admitted Benitez had told
his players they had to make Arsenal pay for those earlier
defeats.


"It was pleasing to get four goals and beat a class side," Crouch
said. "The manager let us know we have had some disappointing
performances against arsenal and hopefully we've made amends for
that.


"You have to be selfish as a striker but I don't care how the
goals come.


"I had fantastic service. When you are up there on your own you
can be isolated but that wasn't the case today. The lads got in
around me to help out."

