

Brazilian Tony Kanaan was set to take pole position for the Indy-
Car's Grand Prix of St. Petersburg Saturday before a late crash
dropped him to sixth on the starting grid.


Kanaan had the fastest time in the main qualifying session, and
was on the track to protect his position in the "Saturday Six" -
a 10-minute shoot-out among the top six.


But in the ninth turn of the 14-turn street course, he clipped
the inside wall with the right side of his car and crashed hard
into the outside barrier.


Kanaan emerged unhurt and still with the fastest speed of the -
105.202 miles per hour - but a penalty for bringing out the
caution flag dropped him to sixth, always providing his crew can
repair his car.


If he has to switch to a backup car, he will start 18th on
Sunday.


"I tried to anticipate the corner there and clipped the inside
wall and shot straight out to the outside wall," Kanaan said. "We
have a little more work to do on the car. It was my mistake so
nothing I can do about it. I have to pay for my mistake and that
was a big one. If we fix the car we have a pretty good spot to
start the race."


Defending champion Helio Castroneves of Brazil inherited pole
position and was credited with a track-record lap of 105.052 mph,
even though it was slower than Kanaan's disallowed speed.


It was Castroneves' 17th career IndyCar Series pole, extending
his career record. His last pole came at Kentucky Speedway last
August.


Marco Andretti starts on the outside of the front row after
matching his career- best of second at Infineon Raceway in
Sonoma, California last August.


Dario Franchitti of Scotland was third fastest, shrugging off a
crash into a tire barrier in practice.


Scott Dixon of New Zealand was fourth quickest, followed by
England's Darren Manning.


England's Dan Wheldon, who dominated last week's season-opening
race at Homestead-Miami Speedway when he led 179 of the 200 laps,
also crashed on Saturday and will start in the 14th spot.

