

EU foreign ministers will await NATO talks with Russia before
formally discussing US plans to install parts of an anti-missile
shield in Poland and the Czech Republic, the German foreign
minister said Saturday.


"Our approach is that we wait for the results in NATO and the
NATO-Russia council (on April 19) and in the light of that result
we'll see to what extent it will come back to our table," Frank-
Walter Steinmeier said after an EU foreign ministers' meeting in
Bremen, Germany.


There is a process under way between US President George W. Bush
and his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin, he added.


Russia has strongly objected to a US plan to put a radar system
in the Czech Republic and missiles in neighbouring Poland to
defend against what Washington says are potential attacks from
"rogue" states such as Iran or North Korea.


Both the Czech Republic and Poland were under Moscow's control
during the Soviet era but the two countries are now members of
the NATO military alliance and have said that Russia has no say
in their security arrangements.


EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana called at the European
parliament on Thursday for the European Union to discuss the
issue.


EU foreign ministers did consider it during their informal
meeting in Bremen, Solana spokeswoman Cristina Gallach said
earlier.


They could put it on the agenda officially at their meeting in
Luxembourg on April 23, she added.


Parts of the US missile shield are already in place in the United
States, Britain and Greenland, and Pentagon officials say the
plan is to have the system operational by 2013.


Czech Prime Minister Mirek Topolanek said Friday his country
would discuss its hosting of the controversial US shield with
Moscow and NATO. But he defended plans for his country to go
ahead with the project.


A Russian foreign ministry official said Friday that Moscow is
willing to participate in the creation of a European anti-missile
defence system.

