

Voters in Cambodia cast their ballots Sunday in local elections
which will likely see the country's ruling party further tighten
its grip on power ahead of next year's national polls.


Some 12 political parties have fielded a total of 102,266
candidates for commune councils -- small administrative bodies
that govern rural villages or city neighbourhoods.


But Prime Minister Hun Sen's ruling Cambodian People's Party
(CPP) is expected to take most of the country's more than 11,000
council seats that are being contested in a show of its dominance
ahead of 2008 general elections.


"We consider these elections to be a trial run for the political
parties going into the 2008 polls," said Tep Nitha, secretary
general of the National Election Committee (NEC).


Sunday's elections are only the second ever held in Cambodia on
the local level, following those held in 2002 amid accusations of
vote tampering, intimidation and political violence.


More than 100 people died in the run-up to the 2002 election in
what opposition parties and rights groups said were politically-
motivated murders.


Although this year's campaign has seen little of the violence
that marred the previous poll, there have been complaints of
intimidation and a few reported political killings.


"The situation is a little better than previous elections, but
violence still happened," said Koul Panha of the election
watchdog Comfrel. His group reported more than 150 incidents of
intimidation during the campaign period.


Nearly 14,000 foreign and Cambodian election monitors were to be
posted around the country on Sunday, Tep Nitha said.


Prior to the 2002 elections, commune officials were appointed by
the government and had remained largely unchanged since the early
1980s.

