

China captain Zheng Zhi has had no trouble making an impact in
the Premiership, but the Charlton midfielder is still getting
used to being ignored on the streets of London.


The 26-year-old has quickly established himself as a key figure
at struggling Charlton since his loan move from Shandong Luneng
in January.


But, while he is used to being feted where ever he goes in China,
Zheng has yet to earn similar status in England, where the likes
of Wayne Rooney, Steven Gerrard and Thierry Henry are the biggest
stars.


Zheng has no complaints though because he has his family with him
in London and can always go to the capital city's Chinatown
district if he is feeling starved of attention.


"Football-wise, things don't seem much different than China,
although there are obviously more famous players here," Zheng
said.


"There are other differences because in China I am quite well
known. The only time I am recognised here is when I walk through
Chinatown.


"I go to English lessons three times a week and am feeling
settled and there are lots of good Chinese restaurants in London.


"My mum and dad are now living with me along with my wife and
child."


Zheng is playing a crucial role in Charlton's fight to stay in
the Premiership and, after scoring on his full debut in a 2-0 win
against Newcastle earlier this month, he is keen to prolong his
stay in England past the end of the season when his loan expires.


"I am enjoying life here," he added. "I am still trying to adjust
but the players are really helping me a lot.


"I would like to stay at Charlton. I like it here a lot. I think
here in the future, more Chinese players will come to England."

