

The world's richest race the Dubai World Cup will be run at a
massive new horse racing complex from 2010 it was announced on
Saturday and the race itself will see its prizemoney almost
double.


The complex, the brainchild of Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al
Maktoum, will be called Meydan and will span 76 million square
feet and feature state-of-the-art dirt and turf tracks, while the
grandstand will boast a 55,000 to 60,000 capacity and span one
kilometre.


The racecourse will not be far from the present home of the Dubai
World Cup - which is due to be run later on Saturday - at Nad Al
Sheba racecourse and other features include a hotel, more than 10
restaurants, the relocation of Godolphin Gallery, the home of
Dubai Racing Club, a museum, as well as covered car parking for
10,000 and a four-kilometre canal which will run from Dubai Creek
to the racecourse.


The target opening date is for the 2010 Dubai World Cup, and to
mark its launch, the Dubai Racing Club announced that prizemoney
for the showpiece race will almost double and be worth
approximately 10 million US dollars (up from 6 million US
dollars).


Dubai Racing Club Chairman Mr Saeed Al Tayer revealed that the
plan had been hatched last year.


"We received the green light at the Dubai World Cup meeting last
year to develop the vision of Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al
Maktoum, and we are proud to reveal that to the whole world," he
said.


"We wanted to develop a world class facility and I cannot think
of any other racecourse in the world that will rival it.


"As we are setting the benchmark in terms of world-class
facilities, we want to complement that with increased prize-money
of 10 million dollars, to continue to entice the best horses in
the world for the opening of Meydan for the 2010 Dubai World Cup.


"Meydan is an Arabic word that means where people congregate and
race, so it is a combination of definitions, but at the end of
the day, it is about where people go and race and achieve
results."

