

Ian Pearce, part of Blackburn's 1995 Premiership winning side,
made light of a foot injury to score in stoppage time to earn
Fulham a 1-1 draw against Portsmouth at Craven Cottage on
Saturday.


The veteran centre half spoiled Portsmouth keeper David James'
bid to break David Seaman's record with his 142nd cleansheet, his
injury time leveller cancelling out Niko Kranjcar's fourth minute
goal for Pompey.


Portsmouth were without injured Glen Johnson but Cameroon
defender Lauren was back while their London hosts were able to
call again on Sean Davis who returned from suspension to face his
former club.


Portsmouth looked to have done enough to give their hopes of
playing in Europe next season a major boost after Kranjcar came
up with his first goal for the south coast side.


And it was one for the scrapbook as the Croatian dazzled Antti
Niemi with a curling shot into the top right corner from outside
the area off an angled flick-on from Kanu.


Up at the other end James was doing his best to grab the record
for the number of cleansheets in the Premiership when he denied
Franck Queudrue's low shot at the near post.


Earlier he had to be at full stretch to tip Tomasz Radzinski's
volley over the crossbar.


The two keepers were earning their keep with Niemi producing a
superb save to deny Svetoslav Todorov.


But with the clock ticking and as Portsmouth thought they'd done
enough to hold on for the win Pearce popped up to deflect Alexei
Smertin's cross from the right to salvage a point for the
Londoners.

