

Works by the early Italian Renaissance master Piero della
Francesca took pride of place Saturday in a major exhibition in
the northern Italian city of Arezzo.


The exhibit, "Piero della Francesca and the Italian Courts,"
features the ground-breaking art of the 15th-century maestro as
well as contemporaneous works by artists who influenced him or
who drew from his mastery of perspective and his humanistic
expression, including Domenico Veneziano, Fra Carnevale,
Pisanello and Jacopo Bellini.


Through its association with permanent exhibits in Piero's native
San Sepolcro and nearby Monterchi -- which houses the "Madonna
del Parto" fresco, an unusual representation of a pregnant Mary
-- the show honours Piero's fidelity to his roots and invites
visitors to see the Tuscan region through his eyes.


Inaugurating the show amid great fanfare on Friday, Italian
Culture Minister Francesco Rutelli said: "After the exhibition
these paintings will return to the museums that house them. But
here in Arezzo there will always be (Piero's) Vera Croce
frescoes, in Monterchi the 'Madonna del Parto,' and in San
Sepolcro 'Il Polittico della Misericordia.'"


He added: "It's wonderful to know that nearly half of the 30,000
people who have already booked (to visit the area) plan to visit
not only the museum in Arezzo and the main works, but also
Monterchi and San Sepolcro."


The main exhibition in Arezzo's State Museum of Medieval and
Modern Art runs until July 22.

