

Spanish authorities said on Saturday they have smashed a commando
unit of the armed Basque separatist group ETA and seized large
quantities of bomb-making materials.


The announcement came just hours ahead of a meeting by ETA's
banned political arm, Batasuna, at which 15,000-20,000 people
were expected to attend in the northern Basque city of Bilbao.


The commando unit, known as "Donosti" and based near San
Sebastian, is suspected of being "behind 24 attacks in Spain
between 2004 and 2006," Spanish Interior Minister Alfredo Perez
Rubalcaba said.


Materials to make around 170 kilos (375 pounds) of explosives
were recovered and eight people arrested including the suspected
head of the unit, Jose Angel Lerin Sanchez.


The police operation began on Wednesday and was one of the
biggest since ETA's "permanent ceasefire" declaration in March
2006.


Computer equipment was also seized and files were being analysed.
More arrests and seizures could follow, the interior ministry
said in a statement.


In one of the raids carried out on Friday night in the Basque
country and Navarra, around 140 kilos of explosive materials were
recovered in an apartment in the town of Berriozar.


The Basque prisoners support group Askatasuna said the apartment
belonged to Lerin, 35, who had been on the run since 2005.


Lerin was one of those arrested earlier this week in possession
of handguns stolen in an October robbery on a weapons factory in
Vauvert, France.


The interior ministry does not believe the unit was behind ETA's
December 30 blast at Madrid airport which killed two people.


That attack -- the first time ETA had killed anyone since May
2003 -- was carried out by a French-based group, the ministry
said at the time.


It dramatically ended ETA's nine-month-old unilaterally declared
ceasefire and led Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez
Zapatero to break off all contact with the militants.


News of the raids came as Batasuna said that its meeting in
Bilbao would go ahead later on Saturday as planned, despite a
Spanish court ruling a day earlier banning the gathering.


The court had outlawed the meeting because it was scheduled to be
used to unveil the political platform of a new party created by
Batasuna to contest local elections on May 27.


But authorities said on Saturday said it could go ahead as long
as organisers pledged in writing that the new party called
Abertzale Sozialisten Batasuna (Socialist Patriotic Unity) would
not be mentioned.


The organisers duly made this pledge, so allowing the gathering
to go ahead, Spanish radio said.


A spokesman for Batasuna -- itself banned since 2003 from taking
part for failing to formally break with ETA's armed campaign --
said the meeting was not to "present the electoral platform" of
the new party but was to make a "democratic proposition to
resolve the Basque conflict."


ETA is blamed for 819 deaths in its 38-year campaign to win
independence for the Basque region. Both the European Union and
the US State Department consider it a terrorist organisation.

