

Invasor ensured he remained the highest rated horse in the world
when he won the six million dollar Dubai World Cup here on
Saturday.


The five-year-old American challenger - ridden by 19-year-old
Fernando Jara - beat home fellow American Premium Tap while Hong
Kong runner Bullish Luck was third.


The winner's trainer Kieran McLaughlin said it had been an aim of
his to return and win the race after spending 10 years in Dubai
at the start of his career and especially for owner Sheikh Hamdan
al-Maktoum, part of the ruling family.


"I spent 10 years here and the Maktoums are great sportsmen and
really believed in me," said the California-based handler.


"I never doubted that Invasor could win. He did look around a bit
and Prmeium Tap gave him a real race but no, I, never doubted him
at all."


Jara, known as the 'Ice Man', was ecstatic at landing the biggest
purse in the world.


"I can't believe it yet," purred Jara.


"To win the race is very special."


Invasor - who made his name in Uruguay and was originally sold
out of there for 20,000 US dollars before being snapped up by
Sheikh Hamdan al-Maktoum - had to battle for the victory but not
against the expected challenge of main rival Discreet Cat.


However Godolphin's hopes of landing the world's richest race for
the sixth time never looked like bearing fruit as the only horse
ever to beat Argentina-bred Invasor in 12 starts never got going
and eventually finished last.


Invasor had to fight hard to get his head in front past Premium
Tap, who showed more enthusiasm when in front than when he
virtually refused to go into the stalls, but Jara eventually got
in front just over 200 metres out.


Premium Tap came back but Jara had just enough left in the tank
of Invasor to get him home and have the time to wag his finger in
joy at the crowd as he passed the line.


Invasor, winner of last year's Breeders Cup Classic, was sent off
the 5-4 favourite by British bookmakers.

