

Carlos Tevez gave West Ham fresh hope of mounting an unlikely
escape from the relegation zone by inspiring the east London club
to a 2-0 win over Middlesbrough here on Saturday.


The Argentina forward made an early opener for Bobby Zamora then
hit the net himself just before half-time as the Hammers followed
up their victory over Blackburn in their last league outing with
another three points.


It was only the second time this season that West Ham have
managed back-to-back wins. But the outcome never really looked in
doubt and Alan Curbishley's side are now within five points of
fourth-from-bottom Sheffield United with seven matches left to
play.


Zamora, restored to the starting line-up at the expense of Marlon
Harewood, justified manager Alan Curbishley's faith in him by
giving his side the lead with a close-range strike inside two
minutes.


Tenacious work by Mark Noble was at the origin of the goal, the
midfielder hustling Fabio Rochemback off the ball to earn Tevez
the chance to cross from the right.


The Argentinian's delivery ricocheted off a couple of defenders
and fell kindly for Zamora, who was left with a straightforward
finish.


Zamora might have doubled the lead when he got on the end of
another Tevez cross, forcing Mark Shwarzer into a point-blank
save at his back post.


Boro had a few half-chances but neither Mark Viduka nor Aiyegbeni
Yakubu had their shooting boots on and, after Schwarzer had
produced good saves to deny Matthew Etherington and Tevez, it was
no surprise when the home side doubled their lead in the final
minute of the first half.


Boro defender Andrew Taylor made a hash of dealing with George
McCartney's cross from deep and Tevez pounced to claim his third
goal in as many matches from close range.


The visitors never looked like mounting a comeback after the
break and they had Schwarzer to thank for denying West Ham
further goals before Tevez departed to a standing ovation with
nine minutes left.

