

Some 1,000 ethnic Albanians in Kosovo Saturday protested against
a UN plan for the future status of Kosovo, demanding instead
self-determination.


The demonstration was staged by the ethnic Albanian "Self-
determination" youth movement, which is seeking Kosovo's
immediate independence from Serbia without any negotiations
involving Belgrade.


The group says it opposes the plan put forward by UN envoy Martti
Ahtisaari even though it offers the province supervised
independence.


The protestors gathered close to the provincial government
building in the center of the capital Pristina. Anti-riot police
were guarding the premises.


"Fulfillment of self-determination brings freedom to the people,"
Liburn Aliu, one of the movement's leaders, said.


"There is no independence in the package," the protesters chanted
in a reference to Ahtisaari's plan.


During a demonstration on February 10, two Self-determination
supporters suffered fatal head wounds from rubber bullets fired
into a crowd of 2,000 demonstrators by international police.


Accepting the blame, Kosovo's interior minister Fatmir Rexhepi
and the head of the international police mission in the province,
Stephen Curtis, have resigned from their positions.


The Self-determination leader, Albin Kurti, was arrested at the
time and remains in detention.


In a message to the protestors from prison, Kurti said
Ahtisaari's package "considers Kosovo's people immature for
independence."


"That is a colonial approach," he said.


Kosovo has been administered by a UN mission since mid-1999,
after a NATO bombing campaign ended a brutal crackdown by Serbian
forces against the province's ethnic-Albanian majority.


In the talks led by Ahtisaari, Kosovo's ethnic Albanians, who
comprise around 90 percent of the province's two million people,
sought independence from Serbia, which is vehemently opposed by
Belgrade which considers the southern province an integral part
of Serbia.

