

Bolton moved to within five points of Champions League football
next season after squeezing a 1-0 victory over plucky Sheffield
United at the Reebok Stadium on Saturday.


Paddy Kenny in the United goal was the hero for the visitors for
80 minutes before he was finally beaten by Kevin Davies's shot
following a good run and pass from recalled France striker
Nicolas Anelka.


The defeat leaves the Blades just one point above the relegation
zone, following Charlton's 1-0 win at home to Wigan.


The victory, only Bolton's second in their last six home games,
moves them onto 50 points and breathing down Arsenal's necks in
fourth - the final Champions League qualification place.


It was no more than Bolton deserved after dominating the entire
match, despite United boss Neil Warnock choosing to field four
centre-backs across his back four to try to combat Bolton's
aerial threat.


Despite Bolton's dominance it was not until around 10 minutes
before half-time that they really threatened to break the
deadlock.


But Paddy Kenny produced the first of a series of fine stops to
prevent Nicky Hunt's firm volley from reaching the top corner of
the net.


Sam Allardyce's men kept their foot on the gas and Kenny was
called into action again to deny Senegalese international El-
Hadji Diouf with another stunning save.


Despite the one-way traffic, the Blades almost took an undeserved
and shock lead on the stroke of half-time.


Keith Gillespie's shot deflected off Ricardo Gardner and the
Reebok Stadium breathed a collective sigh of relief as the ball
trickled wide with Jussi Jaaskelainen wrong-footed.


The second period followed in much the same vein as the first and
Kenny produced a brilliant double save to deny first Gary Speed
and then Kevin Davies's follow up.

