

At least 40 people were killed on Saturday in Sudan's south
Darfur region by the government-backed Janjaweed militia, a rebel
group said.


"I have the names of 43 members of the Arab Torjam tribe who were
killed on Saturday in an attack by the Border Guards (also known
as the Janjaweed) in the area west of Nyala," the provincial
capital, Ibrahim Ahmed Ibrahim of the Sudan Liberation Movement
(SLM) told AFP from London by telephone.


Abdel Rahman Hasaballah of the Torjam tribe in Nyala, reached by
telephone, also said there had been an attack, but he gave the
toll as 53 dead.


"We are getting ready to bury 23 victims who were collected by
police 62 kilometres (38 miles) west of Nyala, and there is
another report of 30 people killed in Bolbol Jazou, 46 kilometres
(28 miles) west of Nyala."


Hasaballah said that the attackers appeared to want to steal
their livestock but encountered resistance.


Ibrahim expressed surprise that Arab Janjaweed militiamen were
attacking a fellow Arab tribe when he said they normally focus
their efforts on African tribes in the area.


The total number of wounded is still unknown, but both Hasaballah
and Ibrahim said nine people had been admitted to Nyala hospital.


Ibrahim is one of the leaders of the SLM faction that rejected
the May 2006 peace accord with the central government which has
so far failed to halt the four-year civil war in Sudan's western
Darfur region.


Some 200,000 people have been killed and 2.5 million displaced in
the fighting, according to UN estimates. Some sources say the
death toll is much higher.


Much of the killing has been blamed on the Janjaweed militias,
which were charged by the government with putting down the
rebellion launched by rebel groups seeking a larger share of the
country's resources.


In February, prosecutor Luis Moreno-Ocampo of the International
Criminal Court accused Janjaweed leader Ali Kosheib of crimes
against humanity and war crimes, including murder, torture and
mass rape.

