

Senior officers are sparking controversy by seeking to limit the
number of soldiers from Commonwealth countries serving in
Britain's armed forces, a newspaper reported Sunday, citing
leaked documents.


Confidential papers drafted by the army general staff, headed by
General Sir Richard Dannat, proposed that the mostly non-white
Commonwealth troops should be limited to 10 percent of the 99,000
total, The Mail on Sunday said.


However, it said, lawyers were warning privately that the army
could be accused of discrimination under the Race Relations Act,
while other opponents complain such a proposal would deprive the
armed forces of great soldiers.


When contacted by AFP, a spokesman at the Ministry of Defence
said: "It's a leaked report so I can't comment on it."


A spokeswoman for Equality and Human Rights said: "If it is
because they are trying to retain the Britishness of the army, it
doesn't make any sense at all.


"It certainly does not fit in with the policies of inclusiveness
in British society that everyone keeps talking about," the
spokeswoman was quoted as saying.


The Mail on Sunday said Defence Secretary Des Browne will likely
receive a written report from the top officers within two weeks,
asking him to endorse the proposals.


On March 7, British soldiers from Commonwealth countries
announced the formation of a British Commonwealth Soldiers Union
to fight alleged racism within the country's armed forces -- a
charge denied by military chiefs.


The organisation is set up purely to advise members who suffer
abuse and discrimination as it is legally banned from striking or
negotiating conditions.


The BBC said the number of personnel from Commonwealth countries
has swollen from 435 in 2000 to 6,000 today -- troops lawyers say
come mainly from Fiji but also Jamaica, Trinidad, Guyana,
Zimbabwe, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone.

