

Football legend Diego Maradona is not suffering from "real
alcoholism" but remains stable in hospital with liver problems,
his personal physician Alfredo Cahe said Saturday.


Cahe told reporters at the Buenos Aires hospital where Maradona,
46, was rushed three days ago, that his condition is "fine and
stable" and for the moment "without unexpected complications."


"By the 'hand of God' we can help him," Cahe said, making a
reference to the football star's outrageous 1986 World Cup score
against England, when he tipped the ball into the goal with his
hand unnoticed by the referee.


Doctors said that Maradona, called one of the greatest players of
the last century but whose career on and off the pitch has been
marred by repeated drug and alcohol abuse, had been hospitalized
related to drinking.


But Cahe said the problem stemmed from more than alcohol
consumption.


"It isn't real alcoholism. There was alcohol, diet, tobacco in
excess, most certainly issues of privacy and of a high level of
stress that was happening.


"All of that in greater or smaller amounts has affected him at
this moment."


Cahe said Maradona's life was not in danger, but conceded that he
would have to stay hospitalized for a time.


"The problems are his liver and withdrawal from alcohol," Cahe
said.


"It is like he has hepatitis, but it is not that."


"It was good we moved quickly, because if not the situation would
have turned out differently," he added.


Maradona was rushed to the hospital from his parents' house late
Wednesday with unknown symptoms.


But just days earlier Cahe had said the former Boca Juniors,
Barcelona and Napoli star might leave for Switzerland for
treatment after his weight had again ballooned.


Newspaper photographs early this month appeared to show he had
regained many of the 50 kilograms (110 pounds) lost after he had
gastric bypass surgery in 2005.


Another showed him in a Buenos Aires nightclub with an injured
nose after falling off a chair.


He had also been in the news after Argentina's central bank said
it had begun collecting information about Maradona's bank
accounts, suggesting the football great was under investigation
for tax evasion.


Cahe claimed that Maradona had made an incredible recovery from
his 2004 heart attack, which followed a cocaine overdose.


"His heart is stronger than ever," he said.


Cahe said Maradona could spend another week in the hospital,
after which they could still make the trip to Switzerland for
treatment.

