

Spanish authorities uncovered explosive-making materials in
northern Spain during a drive against the Basque separatist ETA
movement, the Interior Ministry said Saturday.


Overnight searches in the northern province of Navarra turned up
140 kilos (308 pounds) of various materials that could be used to
make explosives, the ministry said in a statement.


Eight people have been arrested so far in connection with the
operation, which began Wednesday.


The ministry also said that an alleged Basque commando group
targeted by the police operation may be behind "more than 20
attacks committed between 2004 and 2006."


The Basque prisoners support group Askatasuna said an apartment
searched by authorities belonged to Jose Angel Lerin Sanchez, 35,
and a suspected member of Basque separatist group ETA.


Lerin was one of those arrested earlier this week and had been on
the run since 2005.


Authorities said Lerin was attempting to set up a new "commando"
unit based around San Sebastian in northern Spain.


The Civil Guard police said two raids had been conducted in
Navarra -- in Berriozar and Aizarotz -- and three in Guipuzcoa
province, of which two were in Hernani and one in San Sebastian.


ETA is blamed for 819 deaths in its 38-year campaign to win
independence for the Basque region. Both the European Union and
the US State Department consider ETA a terrorist organisation.


The group declared a permanent ceasefire a year ago, but it was
shattered by a truck bomb blast on December 30 which killed two
men at Madrid's international airport.


The attack led Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero to
break off all contact with the militants.


Batasuna, ETA's banned political wing, announced earlier this
week it was forming a new political party to contest local
elections. But a Spanish court ruled on Friday that the party
cannot hold a meeting this weekend to unveil its platform.

