

The weather-delayed World Cup Super Eights match between
Australia and Bangladesh at the Sir Vivian Richards Stadium was
set to start at 2.30pm local time (1830GMT) here Saturday with
the game now reduced to 22 overs per side.


Two bowlers will be restricted to a maximum of five overs and
three to a maximum of four overs, the new restrictions giving
Australia's Glenn McGrath, one behind Wasim Akram's record of 52
World Cup wickets, fewer overs to draw level with the Pakistan
great in this match.


The match didn't start as scheduled at 9.30am local time
(1330GMT) because of a wet outfield caused by heavy rain in
Antigua during the last 24 hours. Several wet patches had formed
near the edge of the boundary, making conditions potentially
dangerous for fieldsmen.


But following the breakdown of one of the main 'super-soppers',
groundstaff were reduced to treading in affected areas with
pieces of foam while umpires Billy Bowden and Aleem Dar made
regular inspections.


As the sun started to come out, and with the pitch uncovered,
frustrated spectators began a slow handicap when the match had
still not got underway.


However, with blue skies overhead, conditions appeared to favour
the game being completed without need of Sunday's reserve day.


The toss was due to take place at 2pm local time (1800GMT).


Reigning champions Australia, bidding to become the first side to
win three successive World Cups after their 1999 and 2003
triumphs, won their opening second round match against hosts West
Indies by 103 runs here on Wednesday.


This match was Bangladesh's first in the Super Eights.

