

LeBron James came up with two big plays in the final minute of
overtime Saturday to lift the Cleveland Cavaliers to a 112-108
victory over National Basketball Association division rivals
Chicago.


"It was a big win because of the way we won it," Cavaliers coach
Mike Brown said. "The Bulls are a good ballclub and they had won
four in a row. Plus I think they have the best home record in the
East."


With the victory the Cavaliers increased their lead over Chicago
to 1 1/2 games for second place in the Eastern Conference, behind
Detroit.


"This was a playoff type game, we knew it and they knew it,"
James added.  "We showed a lot of mental toughness to get the job
done."


Chicago appeared poised for a victory when they held a 108-104
lead in the final minute of overtime. But James had other ideas.


After Ben Wallace made a pair of free throws for the Bulls, James
drove the right side of the lane and banked in a shot while he
was fouled by Kirk Hinrich.


James, who finished with 39 points, then converted the free throw
to pull the Cavs within 108-107.


Chicago's Ben Gordon, who is known for making clutch shots and
finished with 37 points, missed an 11-footer with 28 seconds
left.


James didn't blow his opportunity to give Cleveland the lead,
driving hard to his left and banking in an eight-footer with 20
seconds remaining.


Gordon then missed another jumper, got the ball back on a rebound
which was tapped back out and threw a pass that was picked off by
Drew Gooden.


The Bulls immediately fouled Larry Hughes, who split his free
throws to give Cleveland a 110-108 advantage with nine seconds
left.


Gordon missed a potential game-winning 3-point attempt with one
second remaining before Hughes was fouled and made two free
throws to seal the win.


"We want to get home court through out the playoffs," James said.
"We need to keep doing what we are doing now and that is winning
basketball games."

