

More people in Britain oppose military action than support it to
end the standoff over Iran's capture of 15 British military
personnel in the Gulf, a poll published at the weekend said.


A survey for an ICM poll published in The Sunday Telegraph found
that 48 percent of voters rejected force even as a "last resort,"
while 44 percent backed it if diplomacy failed.


The poll found that 40 percent of voters back the government's
stance of pursuing diplomatic action to win the release of the 15
without issuing an apology.


Iran demands an apology after accusing the 15 of entering Iranian
waters illegally on March 23.


The British government said Iranian vessels "ambushed" the
sailors and marines while they were in Iraqi waters carrying out
anti-smuggling operations in support of UN resolutions and the
Iraqi government.


Twenty-six percent of voters believed that Britain should
apologise to Iran, according to the poll.


Only 17 percent thought Britain should impose sanctions on the
Islamic republic, while just seven percent said the government
should start preparing for military action.


The public showed support for how Prime Mininister Tony Blair's
government is handling the crisis, with 45 percent saying
ministers had done "well," compared to 41 percent arguing they
had not.


Some 66 percent said they trusted Blair and Foreign Secretary
Margaret Beckett to resolve the crisis successfully, compared to
only 28 percent who said they did not.


ICM Research interviewed a random sample of 762 voters by
telephone on Friday and Saturday, with results weighted to the
profile of all adults.

