

The 2004 champions Wasps made it through to the European Cup
semi-finals with a 35-13 win over Leinster on Saturday.


With captain Lawrence Dallaglio watching on from the sin-bin
Wasps scored two vital tries from flanker James Haskell, two
minutes after coming on as a substitute, and full-back Danny
Cipriani.


The London side's other tries came from Irish scrum-half Eoin
Reddan, who bagged a brace, with a further 15 points being added
by the boot of fly-half Alex King.


Leinster, who have never made it to the final, were without Brian
O'Driscoll, but even despite the absence of the inspirational
Ireland captain they made life difficult for the hosts.


Wasps were 6-0 up after the first quarter of an hour with two
King penalties before Leinster hit back with a try from scrum-
half Chris Whitaker who raced across the line unchallenged in the
23rd minute.


Argentinian fly-half Felipe Contepomi converted but Wasps
regained the advantage when Reddan got the first of his brace
with a thrilling 65-metre dash for the line.


Wasps then had to withstand a pulsating series of attacks by the
visitors with Dallaglio a victim of their defensive endeavours
when he was sinbinned for preventing Samoan prop Stanley Wright
from recycling the ball.


The decision to replace Joe Worsley by Haskell then proved
crucial as the sub celebrated his 22nd birthday on Monday early
with his two tries.


Leinster's defeat followed that of champions Munster against
Llanelli on Friday to bring to a premature end Ireland's interest
in this season's competition.


Wasps' reward is a semi-final date away to the winners of
Sunday's quarter-final between Biarritz of France and English
Premiership club Northampton.


Sunday's other quarter-final action sees Leicester host Stade
Francais.

