

Anna Meares of Australia scored a superb double winning the
women's 500 metre time trial crown in a new world record time
here at the track cycling world championships on Saturday.


Meares blitzed a new world mark of 33.58sec for the two-lap event
to reclaim the title she last won in 2004 in Melbourne.


The Australian, who is also the Olympic champion in the event,
finished ahead of Cuban Lisandra Guerra, who came close to
Meares' old world record of 33.944 when she stopped the clock at
34.015.


Defending champion Natallia Tsylinskaya of Russia, who was last
to start from the 21-strong field, took the bronze in a time of
34.430.


Britain's Shanaze Reade, a track novice who won gold with
Victoria Pendleton in the women's team sprint, had set the early
pace of 34.633 before eventually being knocked off the podium by
Meares.


Meares' win means Australia have won their first gold medal of
the championships.


The 21-year-old from Queensland had been disappointed after
failing to make the final for the women's sprint competition
earlier in the day. She will later contest the bronze medal
against Guerra.


Meares could not hide her emotions as she celebrated her double
achievement among her ecstatic team members.


"I just felt really good from the start," she explained,
admitting she was unsure of how fast she could go on the brand
new but unsanded Siberian pine boards at the Palma Arena.


"My season has just been getting better and better, but to be
honest I wasn't really thinking about the record.


"I didn't know if it would be possible because of the condition
of the track, although I had a look at the field and was pretty
confident of getting the gold."

