

The crisis in Zimbabwe is having a serious effect on the economy
of its neighbour Mozambique, with debts unpaid, a collapse in
trade and increased smuggling, Mozambican President Armando
Guebuza was quoted as saying in local press Saturday.


In his first public comments on the situation in Zimbabwe,
Guebuza warned that the Beira corridor rail link through
Mozambique linking landlocked Zimbabwe to the sea was endangered.


Jobs had been lost in companies operating the railway and the
port of Beira, the Noticias daily quoted the president as telling
journalists who accompanied him to a regional summit on Zimbabwe
in Tanzania.


In addition, Harare was no longer paying on time for the
electricity supplies from Mozambique's Cahora Bassa dam, while
the growth in smuggling had deprived Maputo of customs revenue.


Guebuza hailed the results of the Dar es Salaam summit of the
Southern African Development Community (SADC), saying he was sure
that Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe would begin talks with
the opposition.


The SADC appointed South African President Thabo Mbeki to act as
a mediator but also called for the lifting of international
sanctions against Zimbabwe.


Opposition within Zimbabwe has soared in recent months with
inflation now the highest in the world at 1,730 percent and
forecast by the International Monetary Fund to climb up to 4,000
percent by year end.


Four out of five people are out of work and live in abject
poverty and commentators fear political unrest will worsen, with
Mugabe, 83, picked by the ruling party to run for another term
next year.

