

The expansion of Madrid's prestigious Prado museum, housing work
from some of Spain's most important artists, is nearly complete
after five years of construction, officials said Saturday.


The expansion and renovation project, the largest in the museum's
history, cost 152 million euros (203 million dollars) and will
increase the area dedicated to temporary and permanent
expositions by half.


Culture Minister Carmen Calvo on Saturday called the project an
"extraordinary" event for Spain. He said the work, under the
direction of architect Rafael Moneo, had been "very complicated."


New areas totaling 22,000 square metres (237,000 square-feet)
will be open to the public in October. Other complementary work,
including a library and art school, should be complete by the end
of the year in a nearby building.


The project was conceived in 1994 but work did not begin until
2002. Costs also tripled in comparison to initial estimates.


Work on the original building began in 1785.


The project has involved the construction of an ultra-modern
extension connecting the main building with the nearby Jeronimos
church cloister, which was restored. The cloister will host a
collection of the museum's sculptures.


The main building will be "decongested" and dedicated exclusively
to permanent collections, with surface area increased by 25
percent, said Rodrigo Uria, head of the museum's board.


The number of paintings presented as part of the permanent
collection will increase from 1,000 to 1,500, said Gabriele
Finaldi, the museum's deputy director.


Some two million people visit the Prado each year. It houses work
from Spanish masters, including the "Menines" from Velasquez and
Goya's "Maja Desnuda."

