

Hong Kong share prices closed 1.01 percent lower Monday on
worries China may announce further credit-tightening measures,
including an interest rate hike, after raising the reserves
requirement ratio of commercial banks, dealers said.


Investors also locked in profits ahead of the Labor Day holiday,
which will see the local market shut Tuesday and the mainland
bourses closed for a week.


The People's Bank of China (PBoC), China's central bank,
announced on Sunday that it will raise the reserve requirement
for commercial banks by another 50 basis points, effective May
15.


The latest hike, which takes the required reserves ratio of most
Chinese banks to 11 percent, is the seventh such move by the PBoC
since the middle of last year and the second in a little over a
month.


The Hang Seng index closed down 207.52 points at 20,318.98, off a
low of 20,130.11 and a high of 20,525.96. Turnover was 49.84
billion Hong Kong dollars (6.4 billion US).


"Investors expect further credit-tightening measures from
China... and decided to lock in profits before any such
announcement," said Kitty Chan, director at Celestial Asia
Securities.


"Hedge funds seems to be squaring off positions and are using the
announcement of a reserve requirement hike as an excuse to take
profits," she added.


Major blue chips fell, with HSBC down 0.20 at 144.30, China
Mobile down 0.75 at 71.45, Hutchison Whampoa down 0.80 at 75.75
and ICBC down 0.05 at 4.29.


China banks were mostly lower after the hike in reserve
requirements, with Bank of China losing 0.03 at 3.88, China
Merchants Bank down 0.16 at 19.26 and Bank of Communications down
0.12 at 8.28.


China CITIC Bank was down 0.11 at 6.57 on profit-taking after
staging a strong debut on Friday.


"I don't believe mainland banks will be seriously affected by the
increase in reserve requirements since they are very liquid,"
said Chan of Celestial Asia Securities.


Mainland property firms were mostly lower on worries that lending
to the sector may be tightened.


China Overseas Land was down 0.29 at 9.57 and Country Garden was
down 0.09 at 7.05.


Among local property counters, Cheung Kong was down 1.40 at 102
and Sun Hung Kai Properties dropped 0.65 at 91.90.


The Hang Seng China Enterprises index finished down 106.40 points
or 1.05 percent at 10,035.01.

