

The Chicago Bulls swept reigning National Basketball Association
champions Miami out of the first round of the 2007 playoffs here
Sunday.


Chicago defeated the Heat 92-79 to complete a four-game sweep in
the best-of- seven Eastern Conference first-round series. They
became the first defending champion in 50 years to be swept in
the first round, after the 1957 Philadelphia Warriors.


The Heat, who defeated the Dallas Mavericks in last season's NBA
championship series, battled to get back to the playoffs this
year as superstars Shaquille O'Neal and Dwyane Wade missed
significant time with injuries.


O'Neal underwent knee surgery in November while Wade, the Most
Valuable Player of the 2006 finals, was sidelined by separated
shoulder later in February.


"It's not easy when you don't fulfill your personal
expectations," said Heat coach Pat Riley, who was sidelined
himself for a month due to a pair of surgeries earlier this
season. "It's not easy, it's never easy. It's one of the most
miserable experiences a man will ever have and that's how I think
we feel now."


Wade scored 24 points Sunday, but the Heat couldn't counter the
energy of Chicago's rising stars Ben Gordon and Luol Deng and
veteran Ben Wallace.


Gordon scored 24 points, while Sudanese-born Briton Deng added 22
and 12 rebounds, while Wallace had 13 points and 11 rebounds.


"A sweep was something we never thought about, or at least I
didn't," Deng said. "We were taking each game as it came and
concentrating on that effort.  We didn't look ahead. Every game
was a challenge we wanted to be up for."


In the second round, Chicago will face Eastern Conference top
seeds Detroit, who swept Orlando four games to none.


The last time Chicago reached the conference semi-finals was in
1998, when led by Michael Jordan they went on to win the last of
their six titles of 1990s.


Later Sunday, the New Jersey Nets tried to build on their 2-1
lead over Toronto when they hosted the Raptors in another Eastern
Conference clash.


The Heat were plagued on Sunday by the same problems that have
stymied them throughout the series. They missed 14 free throws
and failed to contain Chicago's dribble penetration, which again
created countless open jumpers for Deng and Gordon.


"We could never get a handle on them," Riley said. "We could
never get a handle on their speed, quickness, and their energy."


"They just did everything better," O'Neal admitted. "They played
harder, got to all of the loose balls, all of the rebounds and
hit shots. They just played well."


The Heat never led in the fourth quarter, getting as close as
78-77 on two free throws by James Posey with 5:27 to play.


But Ben Wallace tipped in a miss, Deng had a steal and layup and
Kirk Hinrich made a steal that led to two free throws by Gordon
and an 84-77 cushion with 2:48 remaining.


The Heat resorted to intentionally fouling Wallace, a strategy
often deployed against O'Neal as a last resort. Wallace, the
worst free-throw shooter in NBA history, responded by making four
in a row to seal the win.


"The guys just encouraged me to go up there and just shoot the
basketball and not really think about it," said Wallace, who was
7-of-8 from the line.  "They told me they had my back, regardless
of what happens. It just showed how mature this team has become."

