

Thousands of followers of Shiite cleric Moqtada al-Sadr took to
the streets in Baghdad on Monday in protest at a US military
operation that killed eight "extremists" near a revered Shiite
shrine.


The demonstration followed an overnight raid in which US and
Iraqi forces intended to capture "high-value individuals" meeting
in the north of the capital, the US military said in a statement.


One Iraqi soldier and eight militants were killed during the
operation near the Khadimiyah mosque, although none of the
intended targets was captured, the military said.


Around 3,000 Sadr supporters filled the street in front of the
shrine, waving Iraqi flags and banners and holding aloft a coffin
they said contained the body of someone killed in the attack.


The US statement said that no American soldiers had entered the
shrine or a nearby office of Sadr's movement, and complained of
"misreporting in media."


"After setting up the cordon, coalition and Iraqi Forces received
small arms fire. Men burned tyres in the streets south of the Al-
Sadr Mosque and near a children's hospital," the military said.


"Neither the hospital nor the mosque caught fire. Eight
individuals were detained as a result of the operation and were
turned over to the Iraqi security forces," it added.


"None of the targeted individuals were captured as a result of
this operation and all detained individuals were later released."


Sadr, a radical Shiite cleric who has not been seen in public for
several months, has called people into the streets to protest
against the US presence in Iraq on several occasions.


On the fourth anniversary of the fall of Baghdad earlier this
month, several thousand Sadr supporters staged a mass
demonstration in the Shiite holy city of Najaf demanding that US
troops leave Iraq.

