

Estonia denounced a "psycho-terror" siege at its Moscow embassy
on Monday, where it said dozens of Estonians were trapped by
youths protesting over the removal of a Soviet war memorial in
Tallinn.


"The situation around the Estonian embassy in Moscow is psycho-
terror," President Toomas Hendrik Ilves told AFP.


"Nearly two dozen citizens of Estonia are in the embassy
building, as if taken hostage. Other citizens of Estonia are
blocked from entering the embassy."


Estonian Foreign Minister Urmas Paet said his country would press
the European Union, of which it is a member, to intervene.


He told Estonian Radio: "Embassy staff in Moscow have been locked
in for the past four days.


"We were able to whisk out a pregnant employee with an under-age
child overnight but other workers can't go in or out."


He added: "Because Russia is violating its international
obligations to protect a diplomatic representation, we will ask
the EU to make a demarche to the Russian Federation over this."


A delegation from the Russian lower house of parliament, the
Duma, was due in Tallinn later Monday for talks about the crisis
over the monument, which sparked two nights of riots in Tallinn,
in which a Russian citizen was killed.


The Bronze Soldier statue, which is seen by Estonians as a
reminder of 50 years of Soviet occupation, was removed from the
spot it had stood since 1947 in downtown Tallinn early Friday,
after the first night of riots.


Russians see the statue as a memorial to the millions of Red Army
soldiers who died fighting Nazism in World War II, and want it
returned to its original site.


Estonian officials have said it will be re-erected, probably
later Monday, at a military cemetery in Tallinn.

