

The Istanbul stock market IMKB plunged 8.0 percent at the opening
Monday after a wild weekend that saw Turkey's Islamist-rooted
government and staunchly secular army engaged in a tense stand-
off.


The IMKB Index lost 3.745,2 points from Friday's close, opening
at 43.116,1 points.


Tensions rose late Friday when, hours after a first, inconclusive
round of voting in parliament for a new president, the General
Staff issued a stiff statement threatening to take action if the
government did not do more to preserve the republic's secular
tradition.


The government responded the next day in words just as strong by
calling the General Staff to order and reminding it that it
remained under the orders of the prime minister's office.


The military move also followed legal action by the opposition to
have the Constitutional Court, Turkey's highest tribunal, annul
the first round of the election whose sole candidate is Foreign
Minister Abdullah Gul, a former Islamist.


The court is expected to return a verdict within 48 hours, before
the second round of voting on Wednesday afternoon.


If it rules in favor of the opposition and scraps the first round
of voting, in which Gul fell 10 short of the 367 votes he needed
to get elected in the first round, early elections will have to
be called within three months.


"After the army stepped in, everything changed. We all remember
what happened 10 years ago," Global Securities analyst Arzu
Odabasi told AFP.


She was referring to the 1997 ouster of Turkey's first Islamist
prime minister Necmettin Erbakan after strong pressure from the
army, which accused him of damaging Muslim-majority Turkey's
jealously guarded secular system.


"For the moment, the situation is confused," she said. "We have
48 hours to get all this over with and then we'll see things more
clearly."


Odabasi added, however, that she did not believe the IMKB Index
would drop below the 42,000 mark.

