

A suicide bombing in Afghanistan killed a guard employed by a US
security firm and injured three of his co-workers on Monday,
police said.


The bomber rode a motorcycle up to a vehicle owned by the firm,
US Protection and Investigation (USPI), before detonating his
explosives. The dead man and the injured were all Afghans,
officers said.


"There was a suicide bombing carried out by a motorcyclist
against a USPI vehicle. One Afghan guard was killed and three
others were injured," Kandahar police chief Esmatullah Alizai
said.


The attack in the Zhiri district in southern Afghanistan was the
second suicide bombing targetting USPI this month.


It was also the latest in a wave of Iraq-style suicide bombings
that have rocked Afghanistan recently.


On April 15, four Afghan employees were killed when a suicide
bomber targetted a USPI vehicle on a road near the Kandahar Air
Base, which houses  thousands of NATO-led troops.


A day later nine Afghan policemen were killed by a suicide bomber
in the northeastern city of Kunduz. The Taliban claimed
responsibility for the attack.


Nobody has yet claimed Monday's attack, but similar incidents in
the past have been blamed on the Taliban or claimed by the
rebels.


The Taliban were toppled from power in Afghanistan more than five
years ago but are waging a bloody insurgency in the south and
east.


The rebels have used suicide bombing widely in their campaign, a
tactic once unheard of in Afghanistan.


The rebels have been targetting Afghan and foreign troops, aid
workers and construction workers.

