

Philippine police Monday charged a 25-year-old woodcarver with
the murder of US Peace Corps volunteer Julia Campbell.


"Our investigators were able to retrieve the bloodied, sleeveless
shirt and (baseball) cap of the suspect, including some personal
items belonging to Ms Campbell, and a bloodied piece of firewood
used by the suspect," said national police chief Oscar Calderon.


He made the statement as he presented a tearful Juan Duntugan to
the media after he was turned in by his mother last Friday.


Campbell, 40, was killed while she was hiking in the northern
mountain province of Ifugao on April 8.


Campbell's body was found 10 days later in a shallow grave near
the mountain town of Batad.


In handcuffs and wearing a red shirt under a brown jacket, the
suspect cried as he was presented to the press but was not
allowed to speak.


Duntugan had confessed that after Campbell bumped into him in the
dark, he struck her with a rock, dragged her into a ditch and
"hit her several times more with a piece of firewood before
covering the body with dirt," Calderon said.


He supposedly mistook her for a town rival in the dark, Calderon
said, "but we are not taking his statements hook, line and
sinker. We want to cross-check his statements with evidence and
the findings of our own investigation," Calderon told reporters.


Duntugan looked confused and bewildered as he stood in front of
TV cameras and media.


Campbell, who had worked as a volunteer teacher in impoverished
villages, was last seen buying a soft drink at a store run by
Duntugan's wife.


Campbell's remains were cremated in Manila on Thursday.


She had worked in the Philippines for the past two years. She
previously lived in New York, where she worked as a freelance
journalist for publications including The New York Times.

