

Thousands poured back into Mogadishu on Monday after a four-day
calm, but an African Union commander warned that fighting could
erupt again and a humanitarian crisis still looms.


"It's not yet a time to celebrate," said AU commander Lieutenant
Katumba Wamala, in charge of 1,500 Ugandan troops, the first
contingent of a peacekeeping force struggling to get off the
ground in Somalia.


Four days after Islamist insurgents and clan fighters melted away
in the face of heavy fire by Somali-backed Ethiopian troops,
Wamala warned that insurgent fighters now hiding in the city
could still pose a threat.


"Once they come out (and) surrender their lives will be
protected. If that is not done, then we could have a situation
where those small groups become a source of insecurity," he said.


After nine days of heavy clashes died down on Thursday, up to
400,000 displaced civilians began returning home from squalid
camps on the outskirts of the city.


"From my visit around the city, I have realised that there is a
looming humanitarian catastrophe," Wamala told a press conference
here.


"People are in dire need of everything from water to medicine to
food to shelter."


"Unfortunately the international community has deserted Somalia
and I want (to) make a call ... this is not a time to desert the
Somali community, this is the time when Somali people need more."


An AFP correspondent saw thousands of people, aboard trucks and
on foot, streaming back to the capital, reduced in some areas to
a complex of ruins after the latest fighting in the city's war-
torn history.


Ethiopian forces, who entered Somalia last year to help the weak
interim government oust an Islamist force from the country's
south and central regions, have since faced a growing insurgency,
mainly in Mogadishu.


The United Nations said up to 400,000 people have fled the
capital since February and that more people have been internally
displaced than in Iraq during the same period.

