

Shiite radical leader Moqtada al-Sadr urged Iraqis on Monday to
paint the concrete barriers springing up around Baghdad with
murals showing what he dubbed the "ugly face" of the US military
in Iraq.


American and Iraqi forces are gradually building a series of
walls around or between some Baghdad neighbourhoods, in what
their commanders call a "concrete caterpillar" designed to
protect residents from sectarian violence.


But many Iraqis argue that the barricades will only heighten
tension between Sunnis and Shiites by segregating the once mixed
city.


Baghdad council has employed professional artists to paint the
walls with calming landscapes and scenes depicting Iraq's natual
beauty but Sadr -- a firebrand preacher and militia leader -- has
something more dramatic in mind.


"I call on you to draw magnificent tableaux that depict the
ugliness and terrorist nature of the occupier, and the sedition,
car bombings, blood and the like he has brought upon Iraqis," he
said, in a statement issued by his office.


"Paint the civilisation of Iraq and the ugliness of the occupier.
Paint the bright face of Iraq and the ugly face of the occupier,"
he continued.


"Draw with your pens and brushes your suffering caused by the
occupier, leading to shortages of services and the theft of your
rights. Long live those hands that depict the reality and
injustice and the duty of the government."


US commanders insist that the walls are built in cooperation with
Iraqi forces -- often with the support of some of the local
residents -- and that there is no intention to divide the city on
sectarian lines.


Nevertheless, the programme has inspired several street protests
and criticism from a number of Iraqi politicians.

