

Chinese share prices closed 2.17 percent higher Monday as
investors shrugged off concerns about the central bank's latest
move to tighten credit and cool the roaring economy, dealers
said.


They said property and retail stocks were in favour buoyed by
strength in the yuan as punters ignored the central bank's
announcement Sunday that it would raise the amount of money banks
must hold in reserve by 50 basis points.


Sunday's notice made for the fourth time the central bank has
hiked the required reserve ratio since January as regulators
fight to stem rising liquidity in the financial system that in
turns drives up lending and eventually causes economic
overheating.


Last month, it also raised the benchmark one-year lending rate by
0.27 percentage points, in another move to slow an economy that
raced ahead at 11.1 percent growth in the first quarter.


Although the latest decision on banks' reserve requirements will
not take effect until May 15, analysts warned some corrections
were expected after this week's Labour day holidays.


They said that investors remain somewhat concerned about the plan
to launch index futures -- a hedging tool that can sometimes
spark volatility -- especially since Chinese share prices remain
sky-high.


The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index, which covers A and
B-shares, closed up 81.41 points at 3,841.27, a fresh high, after
moving between 3,759.48 and 3,851.35.


Turnover was heavy at 185.96 billion yuan (24 billion dollars).


The Shanghai A-share Index was up 84.24 points or 2.13 percent to
4,035.09 on turnover of 184.08 billion yuan and the Shenzhen
A-share Index was up 15.74 points or 1.43 percent at 1,114.14, a
record, on turnover of 88.22 billion yuan.


Authorities and investors have also repeatedly warned that
China's stock markets, up more than 200 percent since January
2006, are seriously overheated and a sharp correction is
necessary to bring prices back into line with what is considered
healthy.


"The market continued to perform strongly despite the bank
reserve ratio hike, partly because of the strength in the yuan,
as the yuan will appreciate further if the central bank raises
interest rates again," said Zhang Yi, an analyst at Yibang
Investment.


Wang Jun, an analyst at Merchants Securities said: "After the May
1 holidays, the market could see some corrections as the
corporate earnings season is over, and index futures could be
launched soon," he said.


Property developers were boosted by the strong yuan with Shanghai
Shimao up its 10 percent daily limit at 11.13 yuan while Shanghai
Jinqiao Export Processing Zone Development was up its 10 percent
limit at 19.42 yuan.


Retailers were up in anticipation of strong holiday-related
sales, with Shanghai Yuyuan Tourist Mart was up its 10 percent
daily limit at 31.12 yuan and Shanghai First Provisions Store was
up its 10 percent limit at 27.27 yuan.


Aluminum Corp of China (Chalco), the country's largest aluminium
producer, closed up 180.45 percent at 18.51 from its IPO price of
6.60 on its Shanghai debut.


Some steelmakers were under pressure from profit-taking with
Fushun Special Steel down 0.46 yuan or 4.07 percent at 10.85.


The Shanghai B-share Index was up 15.15 points or 7.01 percent at
231.13 on turnover of 1.88 billion US dollars and the Shenzhen
B-share Index was up 32.26 points or 5.44 percent at a record
624.80, on turnover of 2.07 billion Hong Kong dollars (267.79
billion US dollars).

