

The Turkish lira tumbled in early trading here on Monday, in line
with heavy losses on the Istanbul stock market, amid a tense
stand-off between the Islamist-rooted government and the army
over presidential elections.


"The Turkish lira opened 4.0 percent weaker (on Monday) ... as
the dollar surged ... following the latest developments regarding
the election of the new Turkish president," said Commerzbank
analyst Gavin Friend.


In early morning trade in London, the European single currency
climbed as high as 1.8976 Turkish lira -- which was the highest
level since mid-March and compared with 1.82 lira late on Friday.


The dollar meanwhile rose to 1.3932 Turkish lira, compared with
1.3350 late on Friday.


Last week the US currency had fallen against the lira to its
lowest point since May 2006 following weaker-than-expected US
economic growth data.


"Turkish markets will obviously be driven by politics this week,"
added Calyon economist Claire Dissaux.


"Negative market reaction to political tensions could be
exacerbated as investors had practically failed over the past few
weeks to price any of the risks related to the election period,
with the lira at its strongest level versus the dollar since May
2006 and equities booming."


In Istanbul, the local stock market IMKB plunged 8.0 percent at
the opening on Monday after a wild weekend that saw Turkey
plunged into a political crisis following elections turmoil.


As calls for calm mounted, Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul, a
former Islamist and the sole candidate in the race to become
president, has ruled out withdrawing his bid, defying the army's
threat of intervention in politics.


Friend added: "Gul has said he will remain the AKP's presidential
candidate, despite the recent development.


"Hence, the lira is likely to remain under pressure (against the
dollar) targeting 1.40 Turkish lira."

