

The fight to stop the spread of nuclear weapons is in serious
crisis, Austrian Foreign Minister Ursula Plassnik said Monday in
opening a conference on the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty.


"Let us not mince words, the NPT is in a serious crisis today,"
Plassnik told the gathering of the 188 states that have signed
the 1970 treaty.


The meeting on the landmark NPT comes at a time of escalating
crisis over Iran's atomic program and as an agreement to
dismantle North Korea's nuclear program, which unlike Iran has
actually produced atomic bombs, has stalled.


Plassnik proposed setting up a nuclear fuel bank so that there
"should no longer (be) concern about potential misuses of fuel"
for military purposes.


The United States meanwhile wants to make it harder for nations
to withdraw from the NPT, US head of delegation Christopher Ford
told AFP on Sunday.


Washington is also hoping to avoid bickering between developed
and developing nations at the two-week conference in Vienna as
such infighting led to the failure of a general NPT review
meeting in May 2005.


"Obviously the treaty faces a lot of challenges. The best way we
think to get the process started is all of us getting as quickly
as possible into substantive debate," Ford said.


He said "a country that is in violation (of the NPT) needs to be
held accountable for its violations and just the fact that it
withdraws shouldn't be a way of erasing past misdeeds."


The NPT, which went into effect at the height of the Cold War in
1970 and was extended indefinitely in 1995, is reviewed every
five years. The last such meeting in May, 2005 failed to resolve
any key questions, with non-aligned countries and nuclear powers
bickering over an agenda.


The Vienna meeting is the first of a series of preparatory
sessions ahead of the next overall review in 2010.

