

Veteran British yachtsman Tony Bullimore plans to set off from
Australia on Tuesday on his latest bid to break the around-the-
world solo sailing record.


Bullimore, famous for being dramatically plucked from the hull of
his capsized yacht in the freezing Southern Ocean in 1997, will
take advantage of a low pressure system to sail from the
Tasmanian city of Hobart, he said.


"It looks the best weather window we have seen so far and will
give me good reaching winds all the way down into the Southern
Ocean," said the 68-year-old adventurer.


But his long-delayed attempt to circumnavigate the globe solo in
a record time of 70 days in his 31-metre (102-foot) catamaran,
the Doha 2006, could be put off more due to a steering problem
that emerged at the weekend.


"If it can be fixed easily, I will be on my way," said Bullimore.
"I am glad we found the problem before I set out. If the ram
broke during the voyage, it would sink my chances of breaking the
record."


The current record for the non-stop, round-the-world solo trip is
71 days, 14 hours, 18 minutes and 33 seconds, set by Ellen
Macarthur in 2005.


Bullimore has been holed up in Tasmania and on standby to take a
crack at the record since December.


The course will take him straight down into the Southern Ocean
where the westerly winds in the Roaring Forties latitudes will
push him across the first 5,000-mile stage to Cape Horn.


He will then follow the South American coast northwards and
across the Equator, from where he must pick his way through the
calms of the Doldrums and those associated with the Azores high
pressure system to round the island of Flores before returning
southwards to the Cape of Good Hope.


Bullimore survived five days in the hull of his capsized yacht in
the Roaring Forties before being plucked to safety by the
Australian navy during the 1997 Vendee Globe round-the-world
race.

