

Syria has built a fortified complex buried deep underground and
cloaked in secrecy to manufacture and store ballistic missiles
capable of striking Israel, an Israeli newspaper said on Monday.


The complex includes 30 reinforced concrete bunkers, production
facilities, development laboratories and command posts, the mass-
selling Yediot Aharonot quoted "foreign experts" as saying,
without specifying its location.


The "missile city" houses mainly Scud missiles capable of
reaching anywhere in Israel. Given its weak air power, Damascus
is boosting its arsenal of surface- to-surface missiles and
protecting them in the complex, Yediot said.


According to the paper, Syria has 200 Scud-B missiles, 60 Scud-C
and a certain number of North Korean Scud-D missiles with a range
of 700 kilometres (434 miles), and has developed chemical
warheads for all its Scuds.


The chemical warfare agents are stored in a separate facility,
Yediot quoted the foreign experts as saying.


It also said that Iran recently supplied Syria with around 100
Chinese shore-to- sea C-802 missiles -- the same missile that
Hezbollah used to hit an Israeli warship during last year's
Lebanon war.


In March, military and government sources told AFP that Syria had
positioned thousands of rockets on its border with Israel, as
part of indications that Damascus may be preparing for future
"low-intensity warfare."


Syrian President Bashar al-Assad has made peace overtures in
recent months to Israel but the Jewish state rejected them,
saying Damascus must first stop supporting militant groups in
Lebanon and the Gaza Strip.


Peace talks between Israel and Syria collapsed in 2000, mainly
because of deadlock over the return of the Golan Heights, which
Israel captured from Syria in 1967 and unilaterally annexed in
1981.

