

South Korea urged North Korea on Monday to hold military talks
this week to prepare for the first test runs of railways across
their heavily fortified frontier in half a century.


Seoul has suggested that chief delegates to the working-level
talks meet Thursday at the truce village of Panmunjom, defence
ministry spokesman Song Gi- Hong told AFP.


North Korea has yet to reply to the offer, he added.


The plan to connect the railways across one of the world's most
dangerous flashpoints is a flagship project for relations between
two nations which have remained technically at war since the
1950-53 conflict.


Following a historic inter-Korean summit in 2000, the two sides
completed laying tracks alongside roads that opened in 2005 for
limited traffic.


Seoul asked last year that the North's military provide a safety
guarantee for the two lines, one from Seoul to Sinuiju on the
Korean-Chinese border and the other along the east coast.


But North Korea scrapped trial runs in May last year after
demanding that a contested sea border be redrawn off the west
coast.


Relations have been improving in recent years despite the North's
missile launches and nuclear test last year. Two Seoul-funded
joint projects are operating in the North, a tourist resort at
Mount Kumgang and an industrial estate at Kaesong.


The two Koreas agreed to conduct the railway test runs on May 17
when they met in April in Pyongyang to discuss joint economic
projects. They also agreed to make "positive efforts" to reach a
military safety guarantee, the main topic of this week's talks if
they go ahead.


At the Pyongyang meeting the South agreed to resume its annual
400,000 tons of rice aid to the impoverished North, but said
shipments would be linked to progress on an international
agreement for Pyongyang's nuclear disarmament.

