

Six men, including a Muslim convert who barracked Britain's
interior minister last year, were to appear in court Monday
charged with inciting terrorism overseas and fundraising.


The men, aged between 21 and 35, were arrested in pre-dawn anti-
terror raids last Tuesday, and were charged Sunday evening. They
remain in custody and are due before City of Westminster
Magistrates Court, central London.


The six -- Abu Izzadeen, 32, Omar Zaheer, 27, Shal Jalal Hussein,
24, Simon Keeler, 35, Ibrahim Abdullah Hassan, 21, and 28-year-
old Rajib Khan -- were all charged with terrorist fundraising.


Izzadeen, Keeler, Hassan and Khan were also charged with inciting
others to commit acts of terrorism overseas.


Hassan also faces a charge of possessing articles suspected to be
related to the commission, preparation, or instigation of a
terrorist attack.


The men were arrested at four addresses in east London, one in
Southall, west of London, and one in Luton, north of the capital,
by anti-terrorism officers from London's Metropolitan Police.


The arrests were in relation to speeches made at London's
Regent's Park Mosque in November 2004.


Izzadeen is a well-known figure towards the extreme end of
British Muslim opinion. Last September he repeatedly disrupted a
speech by Home Secretary John Reid in east London, calling him
"an enemy of Islam" and "a tyrant".


The former electrician, who was born in London to a Jamaican
family, is said to be a former spokesman for the radical Islamist
group Al-Ghurabaa.


Al-Ghurabaa is an offshoot of the now disbanded Al-Muhajiroun led
by radical cleric Omar Bakri Mohammed, both of which are now
banned in Britain.


Izzadeen came to prominence for refusing to condemn the 2005
London suicide bombings and has described Prime Minister Tony
Blair and US President George W. Bush as the "real terrorists"
for military action in Iraq and Afghanistan.

