

Philippine troops were Monday placed on heightened alert to quell
possible May Day violence, a senior military commander said.


Manila army chief Major General Ben Dolorfino said 2,000 men from
the military's anti-riot contingent were ready to back up police
against any attempts to destabilise the government through
massive street protests planned for Tuesday.


"Effective noon Monday, armed forces units in metro Manila were
placed on red alert," Dolorfino said.


In May 2001, supporters of deposed president Joseph Estrada
marched on the presidential palace demanding that he be
reinstalled.


The march quickly degenerated into the worst rioting in Manila
since the fall for dictator Ferdinand Marcos in 1986, forcing
newly elected president Gloria Arroyo to call in the troops to
stop what she later said was a coup plot against her.


Four people were killed and more than 100 Estrada supporters
arrested.


Arroyo also quelled a rebellion of junior military officers in
2003 and a coup attempt in February last year.


Estrada was forced out of office by a popular revolt in 2001 over
charges he amassed a personal fortune worth some 80 million
dollars through illegal means.


He has been under house arrest for six years, and is awaiting a
verdict by the courts.


Various campaign groups, including a broad coalition of anti-
government and labour organisations, said they would take to the
streets on May 1 for the annual May Day celebrations.


"The poor have given their lives so that there will be change,"
said Nick Salameda, of the anti-government group Kasama, which
vowed to honour the "ghosts of those who died" in the May 2001
siege.

