

Malaysian long-haul budget airline pioneer AirAsia X said it is
in talks with Airbus to purchase 10 more Airbus A330-300
aircraft, the New Straits Times reported Monday.


AirAsia X operator, Fly Asian Express (FAX), last week signed an
order with Airbus, of up to 10 of the aircraft and an option for
five more, to begin its long-haul services.


"Since FAX would need 25 aircraft within the next five years to
operate the AirAsia Long Haul routes, I think it is better for us
to place the orders for the additional 10 planes now," FAX
chairman Kamarudin Meranun was quoted as saying by the newspaper.


Kamarudin said the airline will not be short of options to
finance the next round of aircraft purchases, estimated to cost
1.75 billion dollars based on the aircraft's catalogue price of
175 million dollars per plane.


"As for financing, everything is taken care off. We are not short
of financial institutions, as well as investors, who are keen to
back us up on this deal," Kamarudin said.


"I am happy with the response as it shows that they believe in
our business model," he added.


FAX's earlier orders of the aircraft are scheduled for delivery
from the fourth quarter of 2008.


The airline will begin its maiden long-haul flights in September
2007 from the low-cost carrier terminal at Kuala Lumpur
International Airport (KLIA).


AirAsia X was unveiled by aviation tycoon Tony Fernandes in
January, who launched regional budget carrier AirAsia more than
five years ago.


In 2005-2006, AirAsia bought 100 A320s from Airbus for its
expanding short-haul operations in the region. It signed
contracts to buy 50 more of the aircraft, with an option for
another 50 in January this year.

