

Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert braced on Monday for the first
official report on the failures of last year's war on Lebanon's
Hezbollah militia, which is set to strongly criticise his
handling of the conflict.


Herewith a brief chronology of the 34-day war and its aftermath:


JULY


- 12: Hezbollah seizes two Israeli soldiers and kills three in a
cross-border raid. Another five soldiers are killed when Israeli
troops attempt to retrieve the captured servicemen. Israel
launches air strikes.


- 13: Israel bombs Beirut airport, and kills at least 44
civilians in air strikes. It imposes an air and sea blockade
against Lebanon. Hezbollah starts firing rockets into Israel, a
daily barrage that totals nearly 4,000 projectiles by war's end
and sends a million residents fleeing south.


- 16: Foreigners in Lebanon begin to flee the Israeli onslaught.


- 22: The two sides engage in the first ground combat of the war,
on the Israeli-Lebanese border.


- 25: Four UN observers are killed in an Israeli raid.


- 26: In Rome, an international conference decides on the
deployment of a peacekeeping force under UN mandate.


- 30: Israel bombs the Lebanese village of Qana, killing at least
28 civilians.


AUGUST


- 5: France and the United States agree on a draft UN Security
Council resolution aimed at ending the war. Lebanon seeks changes
to the proposal.


- 7: Israel warns it will target anyone moving south of the
Litani River.


- 11: The Security Council adopts Resolution 1701 calling for a
ceasefire.


- 14: Hostilities are suspended after the war kills more than
1,200 Lebanese, mostly civilians, and more than 160 Israelis,
mostly soldiers, according to government figures. Refugees start
returning.


- 16: Israeli troops begin their withdrawal.


- 17: The Lebanese army starts to deploy the first of 15,000
soldiers in the south, after a 40-year absence.


- 19: The first troops of the French-led UN Interim Force in
Lebanon (UNIFIL) arrive. Europe commits 7,000 peacekeepers.


- 31: In Stockholm, the international community promises 940
million dollars to rebuild Lebanon.


SEPTEMBER


- 8: An international flotilla charged with supervising an
embargo on weapons entering Lebanon begins its work. The Israeli
blockade is lifted.


- 12: The United Nations calls for the disarmament of Hezbollah.


- 17: Israel sets up a beefed-up government commission to
investigate the handling of the war, headed by a retired judge,
Eliahu Winograd.


- 20: UNIFIL crosses the threshold of 5,000 men (out of 15,000)
fixed by Israel for its total withdrawal.


OCTOBER


- 1: Several hundred Israeli troops remaining in Lebanon cross
back into Israel without incident.


DECEMBER


- 1: Hezbollah and allies start open-ended mass rallies in Beirut
seeking to bring down the rump Western-backed government of Prime
Minister Fuad Siniora.


JANUARY


- 17: Israeli army chief of staff Dan Halutz resigns over the
Lebanon war, becoming the most senior head to roll over the
conflict.


FEBRUARY


- 1: Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert testifies for six hours
before the Winograd Commission.


APRIL


- 30: The Winograd Commission prepares to release its first
report on the war, covering the period from Israel's withdrawal
from Lebanon in 2000 until July 17, 2006 five days into the war.
The panel is set to strongly criticise Olmert, Defence Minister
Amir Peretz and former chief of staff Dan Halutz, but stop short
of calling for resignations, according to media leaks.

