

Indonesia's vice president Jusuf Kalla on Monday hailed the first
of a fleet of new aircraft for a low-cost airline as a "first
step" to easing concerns over the nation's embattled aviation
sector.


Jusuf Kalla was speaking at a ceremony at Jakarta's airport as
the budget airline Lion Air took delivery of a first 737-900ER
plane, one of 60 ordered from Boeing.


Kalla acknowledged that Indonesia's aviation had drawn "a lot of
criticism and cynicism" in the wake of deadly accidents in recent
months.


"Therefore, this day, is the first step towards answering the
worries of people and the criticism of many parties about the
safety of flying in Indonesia," Kalla said at the ceremony,
before taking a ride in the plane.


Lion Air placed an order for 30 Boeing 737-900ER single-aisle
passenger planes in 2005 and increased its order by another 30
last year.


The 2006 deal cost Lion Air, the launch customer for the
737-900ER, 2.2 billion dollars. The planes are to be delivered
between now and 2012.


Indonesia has seen a series of deadly accidents, as well as minor
ones, in recent months.


An Adam Air plane crashed into the ocean on New Year's Day
killing all 102 people aboard, prompting an audit of all
commercial airliners and air charter firms that discovered none
had implemented all minimum safety requirements.


A plane operated by national carrier Garuda burst into flames
after landing at Yogyakarta's airport in central Java early last
month, killing 21 people.


Several other planes have crash-landed or had to abort take-off
or landing because of technical problems, although without
injury.

