

China on Monday said it was honouring pledges made to land the
2008 Olympics, dismissing an Amnesty International report that
accused it of using the Games as an excuse for repression.


"We're conscientiously implementing the concessions made to gain
the right to host the Olympics, and every item of this project is
carried out in a systematic manner," said a foreign ministry
statement faxed to AFP.


"A few reports coloured by ulterior political motives issued by
individual organisations won't succeed in slandering China's
progress on human rights."


The rights group on Monday gave China a failing grade in its
third report since 2005 on the Olympic host nation's performance
in living up to international human rights standards in the run-
up to the Beijing Games.


The report said the Games had been "a catalyst (for) a continued
crackdown on human rights defenders, including prominent rights
defence lawyers and those attempting to report on human rights
violations," all in the name of safeguarding stability.


However, Amnesty welcomed new measures recently adopted by
Chinese authorities concerning the death penalty and media
freedoms.


China said the report ignored progress it has achieved in reform
and in improving the lives of its 1.3 billion citizens.


"The Chinese constitution respects and protects human rights. The
Chinese government has devoted itself to promoting economic
development and social progress, and to advancing comprehensive
judicial reform, a sound and democratic legal system and a fair,
just and harmonious society," it said.


"In this way, we will bring about the overall development for the
people, a policy that is firm and will not change."

