

Taiwan share prices closed 0.93 percent lower Monday after
Beijing tightened liquidity again over the weekend, sparking
concerns China could be ready to take more measures to cool its
runway economy, dealers said.


They said sentiment was also undermined by a local report that
Taiwan believes it will be difficult to encourage more Chinese
tourists given Beijing's sensitivities over the political
ramifications from such a move on relations with its longstanding
rival.


The weighted index lost 74.00 points at 7,875.42, off a high of
7,956.03 and a low of 7,843.05, on turnover of 83.18 billion
dollars (2.50 billion US).


Declines led gains 1,057 to 184, with 131 stocks unchanged.


Six stocks closed limit-up, while 41 were limit-down.


The  tourism sector was down 4.94 percent, with financials off
0.73 percent and electronics down 0.55 percent.


The Taiwan dollar was at 33.309 against the US dollar, compared
with the previous close of 33.265.


The Taipei market will be closed for the May 1 Labor Day holiday.


Fuhwa Securities Corp assistant vice president Samson Chueh said
the tourism sector was badly hit by the China Times report on
prospects for attracting more mainland visitors.


At the same time, the broader market was under pressure from fund
redemptions as investors sought to pocket profits made earlier
this year.


"The Chinese tourist (report) put additional pressure on the
local bourse, which had already been pressured by fund managers
and from concerns over some corporate results," Chueh said.


Thin volumes also pointed to continued caution ahead of the tax
season, he added.


"Individuals are to file tax reports next month. Some are selling
their shareholdings to prepare for tax payments," Chueh added.


Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co was down 0.30 dollars at
68.70 dollars, while United Microelectronics Corp gained 0.05 to
19.10.


Acer lost 1.40 to 63.60 but Hon Hai Precision Industry gained
3.00 to 221.50


In the tourism sector, Ambassador Hotel fell 2.65 to 36.00 and
Hotel Holiday Garden was limit-down 2.70 at 36.10.


Cathay Financial dropped 0.50 to 67.80 and Cosmos Bank closed
limit-down 0.75 at 10.30.

