

Injured Manchester United midfielder Park Ji-sung will be
sidelined until Augusta and miss the Asian Cup finals, but Spurs
star Lee Young-pyo is confident of being back in time.


South Korean winger Park was operated on by knee specialist Dr
Richard Steadman, who helped save the careers of Alan Shearer and
Michael Owen, in the United States on Saturday.


He suffered the injury against Blackburn in March and will need
an extensive rehabilitation period before being examined again
later this year.


"Park Ji-sung has had a complicated cartilage operation that
required an expert in his field," a Manchester United spokesman
said.


"He will be out for the remainder of the season and we will
assess the situation again in August."


While South Korea's star player will miss the Asian Cup in July,
Lee has given a more upbeat assessment of his injury after
recently undergoing surgery on his knee.


The Tottenham defender damaged ligaments in a Uefa Cup quarter-
final clash with Sevilla on April 5 and is expected to be
sidelined for three months. But he has not ruled out playing at
the Asian Cup.


"I can recover 100 percent and I will be fine," he told Sportal
Korea.


"The moment I collided in Spain, I knew that it was serious.


"It was a relatively simple operation and one from which it is
possible to make a full recovery. There is nothing to get
seriously worried about.


"I will recover and after three months or so, we will look at my
condition and make a decision about the Asian Cup."


Korea will be based in Jakarta for the group stages of the Asian
Cup finals, where they have been drawn against co-host Indonesia,
Saudi Arabia and Bahrain.

