

Cambodian unions backed by dozens of foreign companies on Monday
demanded an investigation into the recent killing of a top labour
leader amid growing concerns over violence against factory
organisers.


In an appeal to mark the upcoming May Day, unions urged the
government to conduct a "thorough and impartial investigation"
into the February assassination of union boss Hu Vuthy, the third
top labour leader killed since 2004.


His death followed the murders of labour organiser Ros
Sovannareth and Chea Vichea, who was president of Cambodia's
largest union, and occurred during an escalation of attacks
against workers' rights advocates.


"This pattern of violence and the climate of fear it creates for
trade union leaders and workers must be stopped," the unions said
in a statement.


The statement was endorsed by at last 80 overseas companies and
groups -- including international labour organisations and rights
watchdogs -- as well as hundreds of Cambodian unions.


It followed demands last week by several international clothing
manufacturers for Hu Vuthy's killings to come under greater
official scrutiny.


Major clothing labels Eddie Bauer, Gap, H Hennes and Mauritz, Liz
Claiborne and Phillips-Van Heusen said in a letter to Prime
Minister Hun Sen and other top officials that they were "quite
concerned" about the growing violence.


Swift justice, they said, was key to their continued presence in
Cambodia's key garment sector, one of only a few money spinners
for the impoverished country.


"This ... ensures a stable business environment for us to
continue to source our products," the companies said.


Cambodia's garment exports jumped 17 percent to 2.5 billion
dollars in 2006, but manufacturers warn continuing labour
disputes could scare investors away.


Manufacturers have warned of an industry collapse at the end of
2007, when safeguards against China are lifted, depriving
Cambodia of exclusive access to foreign markets.

