

The dollar recovered in Asian trade Monday after falling to an
all-time low against the euro as the market waits for the release
of more US economic data this week, dealers said.


At 10:30 am (0230 GMT), the euro was at 1.3630 dollars in
Singapore, down from 1.3650 in late US trade Friday.


Against the Japanese unit, the dollar was at 119.515 yen, down
from 119.59 yen in New York late Friday. The euro changed hands
at 163.044 yen from 163.29.


Business was moderate, with markets in Japan closed for a public
holiday Monday.


Dealers said the market is taking a breather after driving the
euro to an all- time high of 1.3682 dollars on Friday immediately
after data showed the US economy expanded at its slowest pace in
four years in the first quarter.


This week's release of other key US data including March core
inflation figures and April manufacturing will give further leads
on the state of the world's biggest economy, dealers said.


"Given the euro-dollar ran up quite a bit last week, I wouldn't
be surprised to see some profit-taking and adjustments in
anticipation of the data release this week," said Thomas Lam,
treasury economist with United Overseas Bank in Singapore.


"We are going to have a heavy US data schedule this week," he
said.


If the US figures come in below expectations, confirming the US
economy is slowing, then the dollar is set for further declines,
Lam said.


"I think the dollar has the potential to pull back a bit more
this week," he added.


Singapore's DBS Bank said the "scope remains for more dollar
depreciation on US economic weakness.


"Although consumer spending held up overall GDP (gross domestic
product), we cannot ignore the drag of investment and the large
current account deficit."

