

China warned here Monday that the developed world should not
dominate a key UN meeting aimed at tackling global warming, while
insisting it was fully committed to fighting climate change.


As the week-long meeting of about 400 of the world's top
scientists and experts began to look at how to combat global
warming, a Chinese delegate called for the interests of poorer
countries to be recognised.


"I hope this gathering can produce balanced views," Sun Guoshun,
a division chief with the Chinese foreign affairs ministry's
department of treaty and law, told AFP just before the official
events got underway.


"It should not just (represent) the views of the developed
countries, but also the views of the developing countries."


The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change meeting began amid
deep concerns over the exponential rise of China as a greenhouse
gas polluter.


China could as soon as this year overtake the United States as
the world's biggest emitter of carbon dioxide and other gases
blamed for the dangerous warming of the planet, according to the
International Energy Agency.


China has rejected any internationally binding caps on its
emissions, saying the developed world is the major cause of the
problem and that developing countries should be allowed to pursue
similar economic growth models.


But Sun insisted that China was committed to reducing its
emissions of greenhouse gases.


"The Chinese government attaches great importance to addressing
climate change," he said, highlighting Beijing's plan to improve
energy efficiency by 20 percent from 2006 to 2010.


"That will be a very big challenge for the Chinese government to
realise that objective. If that objective is realised, that is a
great contribution that the Chinese government will make to
climate change."

