

Australian share prices closed 0.23 percent higher Monday as
investors were buoyed by another record finish on Wall Street
Friday despite weaker than expected first quarter US growth
figures, dealers said.


The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 ended up 14.4 points at 6,166 while
the broader All Ordinaries index gained 17.3 points to 6,158.3.


A total of 1.56 billion shares worth 5.3 billion dollars (4.3
billion US) were traded, with rises outnumbering falls 710 to 587
while 338 stocks were unchanged.


Bell Securities private client advisor Stuart Smith said the
market maintained gains despite a tendency for profit taking at
the end of the month.


"The market's up but with not much conviction and volumes," he
said.


Smith noted some analysts see the Australian sharemarket as at
the beginning of another four-year bull-run, but said the
holidays in Asia and Europe over this week are likely to see
trading continue subdued.


"I see the market trailing off for the rest of the week," Smith
said.


Dealers said investors bought the large banks ahead of the
release of some of their annual reports this week, while support
was also seen in resource stocks after the rise of base metal
prices in London trading on Friday.


Uranium stocks rose after the Australian Labor Party reversed its
long-held "three-mines" policy which could expand uranium mining
given state government approval.


Energy Resources of Australia rose 0.74 or 3.02 percent to finish
at 25.22 dollars, Summit Resources added 0.02 to 5.73 and Deep
Yellow jumped 0.04 or 6.30 percent to 0.675.


However, the world's largest supplier of explosives to the mining
industry Orica fell despite announcing that first half to March
net profit jumped 70 percent from the previous year to 210.4
million dollars.


Analysts said this could scare a potential revised takeover offer
after the company earlier this month rejected a 10 billion dollar
private equity offer.


Orica shares lost 0.61 to end at 31.50.


Australia's leading gold miner Newcrest retreated after reducing
its full year output guidance at its Telfer gold and copper mine
in north western Australia due to heavy rains in the March
quarter.


Newcrest shares dropped 0.54 to 23.26.


BHP Billiton shares rose 0.12 to 29.51 while Rio Tinto gained
0.17 to 82.87.


National Australia Bank shed 0.16 to 43.00, Commonwealth Bank
retreated 0.28 to 52.76 but ANZ rose 0.14 to 30.60 and Westpac
added 0.01 to 27.05.


Macquarie Bank retreated 0.85 to 87.00.


Qantas was unchanged at 5.32, Virgin Blue was also flat at 2.70
while Toll Holdings climbed 0.41 to 22.05.

