

A top US congressional Democrat has raised the possibility of
George W. Bush's impeachment in a bid to force the president to
accept a compromise that would place conditions of continued US
military involvement in Iraq.


Representative John Murtha, who chairs the House Subcommittee on
Defense which holds the purse strings of the US military, made
the comment Sunday in response to repeated threats by the
president to veto legislation that calls for withdrawal of US
troops from Iraq by the end of next March.


"There's three ways or four ways to influence a president,"
Murtha said on CBS's "Face the Nation" program. "One is popular
opinion, the election, third is impeachment and fourth is, and
fourth is the purse."


Asked specifically if Democrats, who now control the US Congress,
were seriously contemplating the impeachment option, the
congressman, who is close to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi,
responded: "What I'm saying, there's four ways to influence a
president ... And one of them's impeachment."


Some of the fiercest critics of President Bush have long charged
he has illegally manipulated intelligence in order to accuse the
Iraqi government of president Saddam Hussein of secretly
stockpiling weapons of mass destruction and thus create a pretext
for the March 2003 invasion of Iraq.


No weapons of mass destruction have been found in Iraq by US
experts, but the White House has strongly denied the intelligence
manipulation charge.

