

Britain's attempts to secure the extradition of Rashid Rauf, a
suspect in a terrorist plot involving the explosion of US-bound
passenger jets from Britain, from Pakistan are stalling because
of Pakistani demands, The Daily Telegraph reported on Monday.


Citing unidentified officials from both countries, the paper said
that Pakistani demands for greater "reciprocity" have hampered
negotiations to secure the 25 -year-old Rauf.


"Britain has not fulfilled its side of the bargain," a senior
Pakistani official told the paper.


"Over the years lists of wanted people have piled up ... England
is harbouring all sorts of terrorists and criminals.


"The problem is that we find there are double standards.
Terrorism is terrorism whether in Pakistan, London or Madrid."


According to the Telegraph, Pakistan has presented demands for
eight suspected members of the Baluch Liberation Army, which is
fighting an insurgency in the southwestern Pakistani province of
Baluchistan.


Pakistan's foreign ministry denied this month reports that Rauf
would be extradited to Britain in exchange for separatist
leaders.


Rauf's arrest in August by Pakistan sparked a worldwide security
alert and arrests in Britain amid fears of a conspiracy to blow
up airliners flying from London to the United States.


Unidentified British officials in Islamabad also confirmed to the
Telegraph that Pakistani demands for the separatists' extradition
had "come up in the same conversations as Rauf."


They also said that "innuendos and hints were dropped," but
apparently insisted that there was no possibility of an exchange.


Rauf faces charges including impersonation, carrying a fake
identity card and fake documents, which he denies.


In December an anti-terrorism court dropped terror charges
against Rauf but its order was suspended when the provincial
Punjab government appealed to a higher court.

