

Coalition and Afghan troops killed 87 Taliban fighters in a
14-hour fight in a troubled district in western Afghanistan, the
US-led coalition said Monday.


The battle on Sunday was in the Shindand district of Herat
province where two days earlier security forces, retaliating
after an attack by more than 70 fighters, had killed 49 Taliban,
it said.


A US soldier was also killed. That death was reported Friday.


US Special Forces accompanied by police and other coalition
members engaged several Taliban fighting positions while on
patrol in the area, which is in a valley, a coalition statement
said.


They moved into place and attacked Taliban positions with mortar,
small arms and rocket-propelled grenade fire. Reinforcements
arrived and coalition aircraft dropped "multiple munitions on
several identified enemy locations."


An AC-130 gunship engaged and killed 26 of the fighters on both
sides of the valley, the statement said.


"A total of seven enemy positions were destroyed, and 87 Taliban
fighters were killed during the 14-hour engagement," it said.


"Taliban fighters are no match for ANP (Afghan National Police)
and coalition forces," said coalition spokesman Army Major Chris
Belcher.


Most of the violence linked to a Taliban-led insurgency has been
in southern and southeastern Afghanistan but this year has seen a
spike in attacks in the west.


The Taliban insurgency, which makes heavy use of suicide and
roadside bombings, was at its deadliest last year with more than
4,000 people killed -- most of them rebels.


About 1,000 people have lost their lives to the violence this
year, according to an AFP tally, with both the security forces
and militants stepping up their campaigns after a winter lull.

