

Sri Lankan troops have killed 12 people in clashes after a Tamil
Tiger air strike on the capital, government officials said
Monday.


Six people, including five rebels, died when troops stormed a
Hindu temple on a small island off the northern Jaffna peninsula
on Sunday.


"In the confrontation, five LTTE (Liberation Tigers of Tamil
Eelam) cadres who were inside the (temple) were killed," the
defence ministry said in a statement, adding the custodian of the
Amman temple "was also killed in the crossfire."


In a separate incident on Sunday, government troops killed six
Tiger rebels, three of them women, in the northeastern Weli Oya
region.


There was no immediate word from the LTTE about the incidents.


The clashes came after two Tamil Tiger light aircraft bombed fuel
depots around Sri Lanka's capital early Sunday, briefly plunging
Colombo into darkness and sending cricket fans watching the World
Cup final running for cover.


A fuel storage tank owned jointly by the government and the
Indian Oil Company was destroyed while two buildings of Shell Gas
Lanka, the local unit of the Anglo-Dutch giant, also suffered
fire damage, officials said.


Sri Lanka had deployed supersonic jets to hit back at the rebels,
air force spokesman Ajantha Silva said.


"We have identified the locations where those (Tiger) aircraft
landed and have bombed them successfully," Silva said.


The Tigers carried out their first ever air strike last month and
followed it with a second last week on the Palaly military
complex in the north of the country.


Police and security forces had Saturday sealed off Colombo,
searching every vehicle entering and leaving the city amid fears
of a rebel attack.


The Tigers are believed to be operating five Czech-built Zlin-143
aircraft smuggled onto the island in pieces and re-assembled.

