

Poland is seeking "specific provisions" from the United States in
return for allowing an American missile defence shield to be put
up on its territory, the country's foreign minister said in an
interview published Monday.


Speaking to the Financial Times, Anna Fotyga said that Poland
"have to know that the (missile defence) installation itself and
other criteria enhance security: Polish, US, global (and)
international security."


She said that she had sought "specific provisions" that would
strengthen Polish security in areas such as "clear assessment of
threats, the kind of installations (involved), the agreement over
bases and installations itself and other issues referring to
cooperation -- defence and military cooperation."


Poland is considering hosting interceptor missiles as part of
Washington's planned missile defence system based in Eastern
Europe -- The US has proposed siting 10 missiles in Poland and a
targeting radar in the Czech Republic by 2012. They would be
oriented toward ballistic missile threats from the south.


Russia has reacted angrily to such proposals, which it says pose
a threat to its interests.


The FT said, citing unnamed Polish sources familiar with the
situation, that Poland is carrying on with plans to request US
Patriot missiles to aid its defences. The business daily did not
name its sources.


Fotyga, asked by the FT about these plans, did not comment on
specific Polish requests for Patriot missiles.


"Poland believes there could be additional threats to Polish
security, so instead of jumping and talking about Patriots or
other advance systems, let's have a rational and serious
discussion about what those threats might be," said US Assistant
Secretary of State for Europe Dan Fried.


"You can't jump from, 'Gee, we think we have a problem,' to,
'Patriot missiles are the answer'," Fried was quoted by the paper
as saying.


"The Poles need to get their thinking together and then we will
deal with this a step at a time."

