

Leading Senate Democrats on Monday unveiled a bid to cut off most
funding for the Iraq war after March 31, 2008, hardening their
position in a bitter standoff with the White House.


New gambits from both sides in the bitter debate came days after
Congress added timelines for troop withdrawals from Iraq to
multi-million dollar war budget legislation, which President
George W. Bush has vowed to veto.


Stepping up their attack on the White House, Democrats unveiled
new legislation which they pledged to pursue if Bush follows
through on his threat.


The measure, co-sponsored by Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid
and Senator Russ Feingold would cut funding for most Iraq war
operations after March 31, 2008, the date already set as a goal
for withdrawal of most combat troops in the 122 billion war
budget bill passed by the Senate.


It would permit funding only for operations against Al-Qaeda,
training and equipping Iraqi troops and protecting US personnel
and installations.


"If the president vetoes the supplemental appropriations bill and
continues to resist changing course in Iraq, I will work to
ensure this legislation receives a vote in the Senate in the next
work period," Reid said.


Feingold said in an email message to supporters that the bill
would use "Congress's constitutional 'power of the purse'
authority to safely redeploy our troops from Iraq by March 31,
2008."


"Our bill funds the troops, it just de-funds the war," he said.


The legislation, to be officially unveiled on April 10 when the
Senate returns from its Easter break, would almost certainly face
a veto by Bush, as the president has vowed to block any
legislation that includes withdrawal timetables.

