

Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez proclaimed on Monday that the
Falkland Islands belong to Argentina on the 25th anniversary of
the Argentine invasion of the territory which sparked a war with
Britain.


"Enough already with colonialism," Chavez said on state
television voicing solidarity with his fellow South American
country which still lays claim to the British-run islands in the
south Atlantic.


"Venezuela is among the countries demanding dialogue with
Britain, which does not want to discuss it," he said.


"Today we pay tribute to those Argentine soldiers who gave their
lives attempting to recover what belonged to them," he said.


Chavez did not miss the opportunity to criticize the United
States, which he often refers to as "the empire," and which he
said "disgraced" itself by aiding Britain in the conflict.


He also criticized Latin American countries that stood by "with
their arms folded" during the 10-week conflict except for Cuba,
"the only government that offered to send troops to go fight."


Chavez also proposed setting up a South American military
organization for similar situations in the future.


Meanwhile, British Prime Minister Tony Blair and Margaret
Thatcher, prime minister during the 1982 Falklands War, paid
homage to British veterans on the 25th anniversary of the
conflict in low-key ceremonies in London.


More than 900 people died -- including 649 Argentine and 255
British troops and three islanders -- during air, land and sea
hostilities.


Thatcher, whose "Iron Lady" reputation was forged during the
crisis, sent in 110 ships and 28,000 military personnel to retake
the islands some 12,000 kilometers (8,000 miles) from London and
liberate about 1,800 residents.

