

Angola will mark the five year anniversary Wednesday of the end
of a 27-year civil war in which some 500,000 people were killed
and hundreds of thousands displaced.


The following is a chronology of significant dates since the
ceasefire in 2002:


- April 4, 2002:  A ceasefire agreement is signed between leaders
of the army and National Union for the Total Independence of
Angola (UNITA) rebel forces, bringing to an end 27 years of civil
war. President Jose Eduardo dos Santos meets with the new interim
leader of UNITA, Paulo Lukamba, known as "Gato". The ceasefire
was prompted by the death of historical UNITA leader Jonas
Savimbi on February 22, in a military ambush in Moxico province.


- August 2: The military wing of UNITA is officially dissolved
and former rebel forces declare they have permanently abandoned
arms.


- August 15: The United Nations establishes the United Nations
Mission to Angola (MINUA) to strengthen the peace process in the
country.


- December 5: Interior Minister Fernando da Piedade, known as
"Nando", is appointed to the vacant post of Prime Minister. A new
Government of National Unity and Reconstruction is formed.


- December 6: UNITA and the Popular Movement for the Liberation
of Angola (MPLA) agree on a new constitution.


- December 9: The UN lifts remaining sanctions against UNITA,
some of which dated back to 1993.


- December 25: The prime minister declares that Angola has put an
end to the presence of its foreign army. Angolan troops had on
several occasions intervened in the Democratic Republic of Congo
and in Congo-Brazzaville.


- June 27, 2003: Isaias Samakvu is elected as the head of UNITA.


- December 9: Dos Santos is re-elected as the president of the
MPLA.


- December 11: Washington lifts a ban preventing members of UNITA
from travelling to the United States. Economic sanctions against
the movement were lifted after the 2002 agreement.


- July 3 2004: An opposition member critical towards those in
power is murdered.


- August 3 2005: Parliament approves an electoral law for general
elections which allows the president to serve three mandates of
five years.


- September 1: UNITA denounces the slowness of the rehabilitation
of its war veterans.


- October 31: Meeting of a "conference on reconciliation and the
consolidation of peace."


- July 16 2006:  A peace agreement granting autonomous status to
the northern seperatist province of Cabinda is signed between
Luanda and Antonio Bento Bembe, a leader of the Front for the
Liberation of the Enclave of Cabinda (FLEC).


The agreement was denounced and described as "null and void" by
the Cabinda Forum of Dialogue (FCD), which brings together
members of civil society, the church and representatives of FLEC,
The northern province of Cabinda was home to guerrilla
seperatists since 1975.


- November 6: UNITA denounces "democracy under supervision".


- December 28: Dos Santos confirms that long-awaited legislative
elections would take place in 2008, while presidential elections
would take place in 2009.


- March 15 2007: Meeting of OPEC which counts Angola as a full
member for the first time.


- March 27: The end of one of the biggest ever repatriation
programmes which saw some 400,000 refugees who fled during the
civil war return to their homeland.

