

South African President Thabo Mbeki said in an interview
published Tuesday that he would soon revive talks between
Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe's ruling Zanu-PF party and
opposition movements to promote free and fair elections next
year.


Mbeki ruled out pushing for regime change, however, in the
interview with the Financial Times, amid mounting international
criticism of Mugabe's government.


Asked if he believed Mugabe, who has led Zimbabwe since it
attained independence in 1980, would ever peacefully give up
power, Mbeki told the business daily: "I think so. Yes."


"President Mugabe and the leadership of Zanu-PF believe they are
running a democratic country."


Mbeki acknowledged, however, that the elections Zimbabwe had held
in the past were not without their problems: "You might question
whether these elections are genuinely free and fair ... but we
have to get the Zimbabweans talking so we do have elections that
are free and fair."


The South African leader also ruled out regime change through
military intervention, or by cutting off electricity supplies to
Zimbabwe, telling the FT: "We don't have a big stick."


His comments came as Zimbabwe's opposition leader Morgan
Tsvangirai called on Mbeki to move quickly to defuse the crisis
in Zimbabwe, where a general strike is set to ratchet up tensions
another notch.


Tsvangirai's plea came while he was in Johannesburg for a medical
check after being recently assaulted as fellow opposition
activists, arrested and then beaten in custody last week, were to
appear in court in Harare.


The inflation rate in Zimbabwe now stands at a staggering 1,730
percent while around 80 percent of people are out of work.

