

US stocks closed with small gains Monday as enthusiasm over two
big takeover deals was partly offset by a weaker-than-expected
report on the US manufacturing sector.


At the closing bell, the Dow Jones Industrial Average was up
27.71 points (0.22 percent) to 12,382.06.


The Nasdaq composite eked out a gain of 0.62 points (0.03
percent) to 2,422.26 while the broad-market Standard and Poor's
500 index rose 3.61 points (0.25 percent) to a preliminary close
of 1,424.47.


Early sentiment was helped by two big private equity transactions
announced ahead of the market opening.


Private equity giant Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. agreed to
buy credit-card and payments processor First Data in a deal worth
29 billion dollars. Also, billionaire Sam Zell will buy media
giant Tribune Co. and take the company private in a 13-billion-
dollar deal.


Fred Dickson at DA Davidson said there was reason for cautious
optimism.


"We enter the second quarter with a continuing sense of
cautiousness toward the economy, the geopolitical situation in
the Middle East and slowing corporate profit growth," he said.


"The good news is that overall liquidity remains high and the
level of takeover activity remains strong, providing a halo
effect over the entire market."


But the early enthusiasm was tempered by a survey on the US
manufacturing sector by the Institute of Supply Management.


The ISM said its index of national industrial activity dipped to
50.9 percent from 52.3 percent in February, suggesting slower
growth in the sector. The price index surged meanwhile to 66.5
percent from 59 percent, suggesting increased price pressures for
some commodities.

