

Some 200 Ukrainian supporters of the pro-Western opposition
celebrated overnight after President Viktor Yushchenko announced
his decision late Monday to dissolve the parliament -- news
partisans of the pro-Russian parliamentary coalition greeted with
supreme calm.


Rallied at Kiev's downtown square, the Maidan -- once scene of
the Orange Revolution in late 2004 which swept Yushchenko to
power -- the pro-Western protesters joyfully hailed opposition
leader Yulia Timoshenko who came to thank the president for his
"courageous decision."


Demonstrators chanted her name while brandishing white flags
adorned with the red heart of the Timoshenko Bloc.


"This is a great holiday for us, because the parliament, corrupt
and anti- national, has been dissolved," one of the ralliers,
Natalya, 50, told AFP.


"I cannot support the authority that takes us further away from
Europe. We do not want tyranny and a government that threatens
freedom of speech," another protester, Oleg Tikhonov, explained.


The pro-Western groups tried to halt some 10 cars sporting the
white-blue banners of pro-Russian Prime Minister Viktor
Yanukovych's Region Party, klaxons blaring as they passed the
rally, but police intervened to block protesters away from the
road.


Meanwhile, the coalition's supporters, who set up a tent camp in
a park surrounding the parliament, greeted the news of
dissolution with calm.


No particular activity was seen in the camp made up of several
hundred tents, an AFP correspondent at the site reported.


Some 200 pro-Russian partisans calmly watched as the government's
urgent meeting was broadcast live on a huge screen set up near
the parliament, the Interfax news agency reported, adding that
the tent camp's spokesman said that thousands of pro-Russian
supporters were due in Kiev Tuesday.


The opposition also said that its supporters would rally in the
Ukrainian capital Tuesday.

