

Tennis fans at this week's 600,000 dollar WTA Amelia Island
tournament will have a hard time seeing the top players in
women's tennis.


The top six players in the rankings - a list that includes
Justine Henin, Maria Sharapova and Kim Clijsters - are not
entered in the tier two claycourt event, which began Monday.


The top seed is Nadia Petrova of Russia, who is ranked seventh in
the world.


She won in Paris earlier this year but was unable to get past the
quarter-finals last month at Indian Wells and Miami, a pair of
tier one events with much deeper fields.


The top eight seeds receive first-round byes. Petrova will face
Kaia Kanepi of Estonia, who rallied for a 1-6, 6-1, 6-1 victory
over Kateryna Bondarenko of Ukraine on Monday.


The tournament's first upset was engineered by Greece's Eleni
Daniilidou, who scored a 6-0, 6-4 victory over 10th seed Marion
Bartoli of France. Also, No. 14 Anabel Medina Garrigues of Spain
was taken out by Dominika Cibulkova of Slovakia, 7-6 (7/4), 6-2.


Petrova's half of the draw also includes third-seeded Daniela
Hantuchova of Slovakia, who won the Pacific Life Open at Indian
Wells; fifth-seeded Dina Safina of Russia; and seventh-seeded Li
Na of China, who is playing the best tennis of her career.


Li reached the semi-finals at Indian Wells and the quarter-finals
of the Sony Ericsson Open in Miami, registering victories over
Jelena Jankovic, Vera Zvonareva and Kim Clijsters along the way.


She will meet Karolina Sprem of Croatia, who handled American
Meghann Shaughnessy, 6-4, 7-6 (7/5).


Another big name not entered is Serena Williams. However, her
sister Venus is in the draw as an unseeded player.


Playing in just her third event of the year, Williams faces
Aravane Rezai of France on Tuesday.


On Williams' side of the draw are the second-seeded Serb Jankovic
and fourth- seeded Patty Schnyder of Switzerland.

