

US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice called her Saudi
counterpart to discuss remarks made by the king last month
describing the US presence in Iraq as "illegitimate," her
spokesman said Monday.


"Secretary Rice spoke with Foreign Minister Saud (al-Faisal) over
the weekend. They had a good conversation," State Department
spokesman Sean McCormack said.


"Our takeaway from it is that US-Saudi relations are on a good,
solid footing, as they have been before," he said.


"We have a common interest. We have a shared interest in seeing
an Iraq that is whole, that is an Iraq for all Iraqis -- Sunni,
Shia, Kurd, other ethnic and religious denominations -- and that
King Abdullah shares the vision of a more peaceful, secure and
prosperous region."


It was the second diplomatic phone call made by Rice to the
Saudis since Friday, when she telephoned Saudi ambassador Adel
al-Jubeir in Riyadh.


On Wednesday, Saudi King Abdullah criticized the occupation of
Iraq in what some observers viewed as an effort to distance
himself from the embattled US administration of President George
W. Bush.


"In beloved Iraq, blood is being shed among brothers in the
shadow of an illegitimate foreign occupation and ugly
sectarianism threatens civil war," Abdullah said.


The State Department's number three official, Under Secretary of
State Nicholas Burns, said Washington wanted "clarification" of
the king's statement and added: "We were a little surprised to
see those remarks."


The United States views Saudi Arabia, the Middle East's most
powerful Sunni regime, as a critical ally in trying to counter
the rising influence of Shiite Iran.

