

Taurean Green scored 11 of his 16 points in the first half as
Florida became just the third team in the last 34 years to repeat
as American college champs with an 84-75 win over Ohio State.


Lee Humphrey added 14 points and Corey Brewer scored 13 for the
Gators (35-5), who made 10-of-18 three-pointers in winning back-
to-back NCAA basketball titles for the first time since Duke in
1991 and 1992.


And those Blue Devils were the only back-to-back winners since
UCLA's unparalleled streak from 1967-73.


Although Monday's margin of victory was not as large as the 86-60
decision that Florida had over Ohio State (35-4) back on December
23, the Gators once again opened the contest up with a decisive
run.


In the previous meeting, the two teams were knotted up at 40-40
with 17:05 remaining before Green's seven points sparked a 20-5
run that led to the rout.


Even though there still was plenty of game remaining in this one,
the Gators took control after a three-pointer by Ivan Harris cut
the Buckeyes' deficit to 24-22 with 5:39 left to play in the
first half.


With the freshman Greg Oden not experiencing his recent early
struggles with fouls, Florida turned its attack outside, as Green
hit a pair of 3-pointers and Humphrey and Brewer both added one
during a 16-5 run that gave it a cushion of 40-27 with 1:07
before the half.


While the Gators proved deadly from the arc, the Buckeyes were
ice cold from deep, missing all four of their attempts during the
spurt and finished 4-of-23 for the game.


Although a thunderous dunk by Oden closed the scoring in the
first half, Florida led 40-29 at intermission and improved to
28-0 this season when leading at halftime.


Ohio State, which was in search of its first national title since
1960, did open the second with a 7-2 run to close within 42-36.
But it could not get closer as Florida made all the big shots.

