

The Iraqi kidnappers of a German woman and her son have extended
by 10 days their deadline for Berlin to withdraw its forces from
Afghanistan or see the hostages executed, a group monitoring
Islamist websites said Monday.


The deadline extension came in a video that also showed Hannelore
Krause, 61, with her 20-year-old son Sinan as she appealed to her
country and Austria to comply with the demands of her captors,
according to the SITE Institute.


A description of the video by SITE said the Iraqi group called
"Kataeb Siham al- Haq (Righteous Arrows Battalions)" had
threatened on March 10 to kill the Germans but ended up
"extending the ultimatum for this withdrawal (from Afghanistan)
by 10 days."


It was not clear when the new deadline was set for Krause, who is
married to an Iraqi doctor, and her son, who works at the Iraqi
foreign ministry. They were seized on February 6 in Baghdad where
they have lived for several years.


Germany has nearly 3,000 troops in Afghanistan with the NATO-led
force and Austria has a token contingent.


The video shows Krause warning their failure to pull out would
have consequences for her, her son and both countries.


The five-minute, 27-second video shows Krause, visibly shaken and
her voice becoming almost inaudible, saying: "Germany was safe
before it allied with America in this devilish alliance against
what is called terrorism.


"What terrorism is this? Did the Afghani people attack Berlin and
destroy it factories? Did any Muslim explode one bomb in
Germany?" she said.


A first deadline for the pair's execution came and went on March
20 with the German government unable to contact the kidnappers,
the German television station ZDF reported at the time.


Berlin has made several attempts to secure their release
including a message from the German president, contained in a
video distributed in Germany and the Arab world, urging the
kidnappers "to return the hostages to their family."

