

A Russian delegation will visit Tehran in the coming days to
resolve problems holding up the completion of Iran's first
nuclear power plant, a top Iranian atomic official said on
Tuesday.


The completion of the Bushehr nuclear power plant being built by
Russia and the delivery of nuclear fuel -- scheduled for this
year -- have been repeatedly delayed amid mutual accusations of
financial problems.


"In the next two or three days the Russians will come to Tehran
to sign an agreement to solve the financial problems of
Atomstroiexport," the Russian firm building the plant, said
Gholam Reza Aghazadeh.


"There is a possibility that they may delay it," added Aghazadeh,
the head of Iran's atomic energy organisation.


Under a deal reached between Tehran and Moscow last September,
Russia was to deliver nuclear fuel to Iran in March, the power
station would begin working in September and it would start
producing energy in November.


Aghazadeh, speaking to reporters on a government plane heading to
the southern city to inaugurate a new electricity installation at
the plant, repeated Tehran's accusations that the issue had been
politicised.


"There is no doubt that the matter of Bushehr has been
politicised but the talk of them not delivering is not true.


"The Russians have told us that since their company does not have
money 'you need to help us financially'. A framework has been
found to solve their financial problems," he said.


Russia has blamed non-existent Iranian payments for the lack of
progress although Iran has hinted that pressure on Moscow from
the United States is to blame.


Washington accuses Iran of seeking nuclear weapons but the
Islamic republic denies the charges, insisting its nuclear
programme is solely aimed at generating energy.

