

France's TGV will on Tuesday attempt to set a new world speed
record for a train on rails, with organisers aiming to hit at
least 560 kilometres (350 miles) per hour.


The record attempt will be tried on a 73 kilometer (45.3 mile)
stretch of track between Paris and the eastern city of
Strasbourg.


Weather permitting, the experimental Train a Grande Vitesse (TGV)
will aim to break a 17-year-old speed record for a traditional
rail-based train of 515.3 kilometres (320.2 miles) per hour. That
was set by an earlier version of the TGV.


In unofficial trials since January, the train has already reached
speeds of 559kph (347mph), according to the SNCF, the state rail
company. One source close to the project said the train had
touched 568kph (352.7 mph).


The TGV might also challenge the overall world train speed record
of 581kph (360.8 mph) reached in 2003 by a Japanese magnetic
levitation, or Maglev, train.


The record attempt is to take place between 1100-1130 GMT about
200 kilometres from Paris.


The project has cost an estimated 30 million euros (40 million
dollars). The record attempt will be made by a specially modified
experimental train called the V150, designed to travel at 150
metres (495 feet) per second.


"Beyond the technical exploit, this is part of an attempt to
record data on the behaviour of the infrastructure and of the
rolling stock in extreme conditions which are impossible to carry
out in the laboratory," said a statement by the SNCF, the rail
network operator RFF, and Alstom, makers of the train.


Another aim of Tuesday's record attempt is to show off French
engineering prowess and help boost Alstom's sales of TGVs abroad,
in a multi-billion-dollar market that increasingly competes with
regional air links.


Japan's Shinkansen "bullet train" and Germany's Siemens, makers
of the Inter- City Express (ICE), are the other major players in
the market.


The Shinkansen, made by Kawasaki, Hitachi and Nippon Sharyo, has
been operating in different forms since 1964. The Shinkansen and
the ICE currently average about 300kph (186 mph) but a new
version of the Japanese train, the Fastech 360Z, which started
tests one year ago, is expected to operate at 360kph (223.5 mph)
when it enters service.


Currently, average travelling speeds for the TGV are around
300kph (186 mph), but trains on the new Paris-Strasbourg line are
to run at 320kph (198.7mph). The SNCF says the new line is not
expected to be profitable enough at the start to warrant going at
full speed in the new trains.


"If we beat this record, that will put us in a good position with
respect to our competitors who do not have this technology," said
Philippe Mellier, the head of Alstom's train unit.


China, South Korea and Taiwan have been major customers for high-
speed trains, and Turkey, Brazil and Argentina are believed to be
considering fast trains.


Work began five years ago on the Paris-Strasbourg TGV line, which
will start commercial trips on June 10.


One of the biggest rail projects in Europe, it mobilised some
10,000 workers and required 78,000 tonnes of steel -- enough to
build eight Eiffel towers.

