

China National Petroleum Corp (CNPC), the nation's top oil
producer, will ramp up its exploration of offshore gas and oil
reserves this year, state media said Tuesday.


"The Bohai Bay area is our top priority," said Shi Lin, president
of CNPC subsidiary China National Petroleum Offshore Engineering
Co Ltd, according to the China Daily. Bohai Bay is located off
northeastern China.


"We plan to roll out an annual four to five million tonnes of oil
equivalent from Bohai offshore exploration and production in
three years," Shi added.


As part of the investment, Shi said CNPC will design and build a
multi-purpose ocean engineering vessel for its operation in Bohai
Bay this year.


Previous reports said PetroChina, CNPC's listed arm, had recently
discovered an oil field with reserves put at 2.2 billion barrels
(297.3 million tonnes) in the Nanpu area of the company's Jidong
Oilfield in Bohai Bay.


It is the biggest oil discovery in China in 10 years, with daily
output of the oil field expected to reach 200,800 barrels in
three years.


Shi said the total investment budget could be sizable but did not
elaborate.


The company is also preparing for deep-sea exploration of the
South China Sea and for acquiring offshore resources in Africa,
Shi said.


Amid declining reserves at home, energy-hungry China is turning
its attention to Middle East, Africa and other resource-rich
regions.


It imported a record 47 percent of its oil last year, an increase
of 4.1 percentage points from a year earlier, according to
government statistics.

