

A majority of Britons want to scale down their country's global
role, and believe it should not try and punch above its weight, a
poll published on Tuesday said.


The YouGov survey in The Daily Telegraph also showed that while a
majority of respondents wanted British troops brought home "soon"
from Afghanistan and Iraq, a majority were in favour of the
country committing its troops as part of peacekeeping operations.


Some 65 percent of those questioned said that Britain was
"already over- extended" militarily, and should "not seek to have
as much military influence in the world as we have now."


About 55 percent said that Britain should not try and have a
bigger role in the world than its military and economic strength
would indicate.


An overwhelming 84 percent said that Britain's armed forces were
"probably overstretched" -- the country has about 7,200 troops in
Iraq, but the govenrment has said it will withdraw about 1,600
this year, though it has pledged an extra 1,400 troops for
Afghanistan, taking the country's contingent in the NATO-led
International Security Assistance Force to 7,700.


The results of the poll will come as a blow to Prime Minister
Tony Blair, who has advocated a prominent British role in world
affairs.


A majority of respondents said that the country's soldiers in
Iraq (59 percent) and Afghanistan (53 percent) should be "brought
home soon," though 54 percent said they supported Britain
committing troops to peacekeeping operations.


Exactly half also said Britain should continue to possess an
independent nuclear deterrent -- parliament passed a bill last
month pledging to renew the country's ageing Trident system.


YouGov questioned 2,042 voters across Britain between March 26
and 28 for the survey.

