

North Korean diplomats and businessmen serving overseas are
refusing orders from Pyongyang to send home all but one of their
children, a news report said Tuesday.


South Korean reports last month said the hardline Communist
regime had ordered the repatriation of most children by mid-March
in an apparent attempt to prevent defections.


None of the North Koreans in China had sent sons or daughters
home by the deadline in a rare show of defiance of the regime,
Seoul's Yonhap news agency quoted sources as saying.


"Those in China have yet to send a single child back to North
Korea," the source told Yonhap, adding they cited the children's
education needs.


The agency last month reported that Pyongyang had revived a
decades-old regulation restricting the number of children its
diplomats can take abroad to one.


North Korea has extended the deadline for returns until April 30
and sent Kim Chang-Kyu, a vice foreign minister, to China to
listen to the views of its diplomats, the latest report said.


"The extension was to give them more time in a follow-up to
diplomats' complaints about insufficient time for bringing back
their kids," another source in the Chinese city of Shenyang was
quoted as saying.


"We are checking the intelligence. There's nothing concrete that
we can confirm," a spokesman for Seoul's National Intelligence
Service told AFP.


The reports last month said some 3,000 children living with their
parents in about 50 countries would be subject to repatriation.


Seoul's JoongAng Ilbo newspaper had said the ruling Workers Party
issued the order on February 14 to prevent defections.


North Korea in the early 1990s called home all its overseas
students, apparently for fear of defections at a time when the
Soviet Union and its satellite states in eastern Europe were
collapsing.

