

British Prime Minister Tony Blair and his heir apparent Gordon
Brown, the finance minister, hit the campaign trail in Scotland
on Tuesday ahead of elections there in a month.


The May 3 vote for the 129-seat Scottish Parliament will be
Blair's last as Britain's leader -- he has pledged to step down
later this year -- and comes as his governing Labour Party lag
behind the main opposition Scottish National Party in local
opinion polls.


Scotland is currently governed by a coalition between Labour and
the Liberal Democrats, but according to most polls, the two
parties won't be able to win the necessary 65 seats to govern the
region.


Faced with election defeat in Brown's native Scotland, Labour's
two heavyweights are trying to make up ground there, as the
election campaign begins Tuesday, after the Scottish parliament
was dissolved at midnight.


Labour is expected to make the economic case against independence
-- which the SNP argues in favour of -- when it begins the month-
long campaign.


Elections will also be held in early May for the Welsh assembly
and local councils across the country.


Under Blair, Scotland was in 1999 granted powers to re-establish
its own parliament and pass laws in health, education, housing
and the environment, but not in defence, foreign and economic
policy.


Scottish parliamentarians are elected in two ways -- 73 are
chosen in local constituency elections where the candidate with
the most votes wins, and the remaining 56 are chosen via a
proportional representation system on a wider regional basis,
meaning every Scottish voter casts two votes.

