

New flu strains show signs of resistance to pills doctors hope
can slow a virus epidemic, suggests a study published Tuesday.


Researchers in Japan studied the effectiveness of the drugs,
oseltamivir and zanamivir, during an influenza type B outbreak in
the winter of 2005-2005.


They published the results of their study on the medications
known by their trade names Tamiflu and Relenza in the US Journal
of the American Medical Association.


Influenza type B is "associated with annual outbreaks of illness
and increased death rates worldwide," and Tamiflu and Relenza are
used more extensively in Japan to treat those outbreaks than
anywhere else in the world, the study's authors said.


Researchers "identified a variant with reduced drug sensitivity
in one (1.4 percent) of the 74 children who had received
oseltamivir (Tamiflu)," the study said.


In 422 untreated patients, the influenza B virus was isolated and
"found to have reduced sensitivity to zanamivir (Relenza),
oseltamivir, or both" in seven, or 1.7 percent, of cases.


Tamiflu is produced by the Swiss lab Roche and Relenza by the
British pharmaceutical giant GlaxoSmithKline. Both are used for
flu prevention and treatment purposes.


Some cases of resistance to Tamiflu in influenza type A cases,
which typically strike at the beginning of the flu season, have
already been found but little information has surfaced about type
B influenza and its reactions.


"The emergence of drug-resistant influenza B should draw
attention to the importance of continual monitoring of strains
over time and to the need for frequent rethinking of policies for
use of antiviral drugs," an accompanying editorial said.


"Influenza viruses evolve rapidly and nimbly, which compels
ongoing investigation of antiviral therapies that use alternative
mechanisms of action and target different points in the viral
life cycle."

