

Washington on Monday hailed a call from Israeli Prime Minister
Ehud Olmert to hold talks with Arab leaders on a Saudi-drafted
plan for Middle East peace as a positive move.


"The idea that the Israelis and Arab states could get together in
some form, just to have initial discussions about where the
situation stood and the ideas and proposals for how to move a
process of reconciliation forward, is positive," State Department
spokesman Sean McCormack said.


Olmert on Sunday invited the heads of Arab states to hold talks
with Israel over the Saudi-drafted plan.


US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, who took a four-day trip
to see Israeli and Palestinian leaders last month, is planning to
return soon in her ongoing bid to relaunch the peace process,
McCormack said.


"I expect that she will be going back out to the region probably
some time in May. We don't have a date set yet," he said.


A ministerial meeting between the quartet of main Middle East
players -- the United States, European Union, Russia and the
United Nations -- could also take place in May, he said.


Arab leaders, at their summit in Riyadh last week, revived a
five-year-old plan that offers Israel normal relations if it
withdraws from all land seized in the 1967 Six Day War, and
allows for the creation of a Palestinian state and the return of
Palestinian refugees.


Israel rejected the plan when it was first adopted in 2002, but
has now said it could serve as a basis for talks provided there
were changes on the refugee issue, something the Arab heads of
state rejected in Riyadh.

