

A generous lawyer and two ex-judges who adjusted their court
rulings in exchange for cash were found guilty of conspiracy,
fraud and bribery Monday in the southern US state of Mississippi.


A federal jury convicted the trio on all 14 counts after hearing
how attorney Paul Minor, 61, bribed state court judges Walter
Teel, 56, and John Whitfield, 44, the US Department of Justice
said in a statement.


The judges each face up to 35 years in jail and 750,000 dollars
in fines, while the lawyer faces a maximum 55 years in prison and
a one-million-dollar fine. A sentencing hearing is scheduled for
June 14.


"The jury's conviction ... sends an important message," said a
statement by Assistant Attorney General Alice Fisher. "We will
not tolerate the bribery of judges to influence matters before
the court."


Minor guaranteed 25,000 dollars and 140,000 dollars in loans for
the each of the two elected state court judges, purportedly so
they could finance their election campaigns. Some local judges
are elected in certain states.


Then, in both cases, "in an effort to conceal the fact that he
was paying off the loans himself, (Minor) used cash and an
intermediary to disguise the true source of the payments," the
statement said.


In exchange, Teel "made favorable rulings" for a case involving a
local bank represented by Minor and Whitfield awarded 3.65
million dollars in damages to one of Minor's firm's clients, an
injured oil rig worker.

