

The dollar was steady against the yen and euro in Asian trade
Tuesday as the market waited for fresh US housing figures and the
pivotal US monthly employment report due Friday, dealers said.


The dollar was little changed at 117.80 yen in Tokyo morning
trade after 117.83 in New York late Monday.


The euro was steady at 1.3366 dollars from 1.3365 while slipping
to 157.41 yen from 157.50.


There was little market action due to a lack of new leads and
with dealers in Europe and the United States winding down ahead
of the Easter weekend, said Nobuo Kihara, forex marketer at BNP
Paribas.


The dollar managed to shrug off a weaker-than-expected reading of
an index of US industrial activity, which dipped to 50.9 percent
in March from 52.3 percent in February, according to the
Institute of Supply Management.


However, the prices element of the survey jumped to 65.5 from
59.0, reinforcing expectations that US interest rates will not be
cut any time soon.


On the data front, the main focus for the market this week will
be US pending home sales due out later Tuesday and the monthly US
labour market report on Friday, when many key markets will be
closed for Good Friday.


"Trading will be choppy because of these releases," said Kihara.


Australia meanwhile is bracing for a possible interest rate hike
by the central bank there on Wednesday, which has helped to lift
the Australian dollar up to a 10-year high against its US
counterpart, dealers said.


"Evidence that economic growth is continuing to accelerate has
boosted expectations for the degree of Reserve Bank of Australia
(RBA) action this year," wrote National Australia Bank senior
strategist John Kyriakopoulos.


Dealers read it as a 62 percent chance that that RBA will raise
rates by a quarter basis point to 6.50 percent this week, he
noted.


The Australian dollar was at 0.8164 US dollars, just off a decade
high of 0.8181, dealers said.

