

Daniel Craig, the latest actor to play James Bond in the super-
spy series of movies, was named the best-dressed man in Britain
by men's style magazine GQ on Monday.


In an article in GQ's May issue, due out on Thursday, the
magazine listed the 10 best-dressed and worst-dressed men in the
country.


Craig was followed in the best-dressed list by David Cameron, the
leader of the main opposition Conservative Party, who placed
second, and film star Clive Owen, who was third.


Gordon Brown -- the finance minister and likely future prime
minister -- conversely came second in the list for Britain's
worst-dressed men, beaten only by TV host and comedian Russell
Brand.


Craig's slick, suit-wearing character in "Casino Royale" -- the
latest iteration in the James Bond series -- was credited with
his topping the list.


"No Bond since Sean Connery has worn it better," GQ said.


"It works because the 007 uniform seems like an upgrade of what
Craig would naturally wear."


GQ said that Cameron, meanwhile, was "a politician who
understands the news agenda is set as much by appearance as it is
by words."


Acknowledging that some celebrities polarised the fashion world
with their dress sense, GQ placed some men on both lists.


Pete Doherty, the frontman for Babyshambles, perhaps best known
for his relationship with supermodel Kate Moss, placed seventh on
the best-dressed list, while also placing fifth in the worst-
dressed list.


Cameron also made it to sixth on the worst-dressed list, along
with his second- place finish in the best-dressed list.


Prince Harry also made it on the list -- the first royal to be
included in the poll -- placing 10th, with GQ describing him as
"the sartorial world's favourite Army recruit."

