

Phil Jackson, who won nine titles as coach of the Chicago Bulls
and Los Angeles Lakers, headlined the list of American
basketball's Hall of Fame inductees on Monday.


Jackson made it on his first year of consideration and his nine
National Basketball Association titles matches the late Boston
Celtics coach Red Auerbach's mark.


"It is a great honour," Jackson said. "The meaning is in the
teams I coached and the championships they won."


Joining Jackson in the class of 2007 to enter the Hall in
September are a handful of coaches, including Roy Williams of
North Carolina, former WNBA coach Van Chancellor and
internationals Pedro Ferrandiz and Mirko Novosel. The 1966 Texas
Western college team was also honoured.


Also named posthumously was former NBA referee Marvin "Mendy"
Rudolph. A referee for 22 seasons and the author of the league's
officials manual, Rudolph died in 1979 at 53.


The inductions were announced at a hotel here, not far from the
Georgia Dome, where the NCAA college basketball championship will
be played on Monday. Former Texas Western player Harry Flournoy
also was on hand but coach Don Haskins was not.


Jackson guided the Chicago Bulls to six championships in the
1990s and the Lakers to three straight titles from 2000-02.


"For a player it is a reflection on their careers but for a coach
it is a reflection on the team," Jackson said.


A disciple of Bill Fitch at North Dakota and Red Holzman during
his playing days with the New York Knicks, Jackson was the
fastest coach to 800 wins. He directed the 1995-96 Bulls to a
72-10 mark, the best in NBA history.


"It is a no brainer," said Lakers star Kobe Bryant. "Everything
he accomplished. It is pretty cool to play for a coach in the
hall of fame."


Induction of the class of 2007 will take place at the Naismith
Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame in Springfield, Massachusetts in
September.

