

Japanese share prices rose 0.79 percent in morning trade on
Tuesday, recouping some of Monday's losses after Wall Street
posted modest gains overnight, dealers said.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
gained 134.21 points to 17,162.62 by lunch, a day after sliding
1.50 percent.


The TOPIX index of all issues on the Tokyo Stock Exchange's first
section added 13.54 points or 0.80 percent to 1,696.03.


Gainers outpaced decliners 958 to 649, with 120 issues flat.


Volume rose to 1.1 billion shares from 991 million on Monday
morning.


"Today's gains were a technical rebound," said Hideo Mizutani,
chief strategist at Sieg Securities.


He said worries over the US economy still troubled investors and
noted that the market lacked strong enough leads to return to its
upward trend.


"The US employment report later this week might set the market's
tone but generally, investors will refrain from taking large
positions ahead of the earnings results season in Japan and in
the US starting mid to end-April," Mizutani said.


Until then, the Nikkei-225 is likely to trade between 17,000 and
17,500 points, he added.


Among auto shares, Isuzu Motors climbed 24 yen or 4.1 percent to
602, Yamaha Motor advanced 130 or 4.0 percent to 3,370, Honda
Motor was up 80 or 2.0 percent at 4,130 and Nissan Motor rose 13
or 1.0 percent to 1,272.


Among electronics issues, Advantest was up 150 yen or 2.9 percent
at 5,290, Rohm gained 220 or 2.1 percent to 10,790, Ricoh rose 65
or 2.4 percent to 2,745 and Nikon climbed 90 or 3.6 percent to
2,615.


Fujitsu was up 20 yen or 2.5 percent to 804 after the Nikkei
reported that the company intends to more than triple its Indian
workforce of software developers to 10,000 by 2010, in a bid to
boost its competitiveness.


Mitsui and Co Ltd gained 60 yen or 2.8 percent to 2,165, after
the Nikkei reported that a consortium led by the trading house
had won a major railway construction contract in Saudi Arabia.

