

China's rampant property speculation is spreading into the
afterlife, with per- square-metre grave prices averaging nearly
twice that of a house in some areas, state media reported on
Tuesday.


The central government will soon respond with new regulations to
end the bustling trade in funeral plots that is driving up
prices, the China Daily newspaper said.


"In recent years, the speculative trade of coffin pits has become
increasingly unrestrained, resulting in soaring prices and
seething public discontent," it said.


With a surging elderly population, China's funeral industry is
booming and grave speculators are taking advantage of the belief
that the dead can achieve everlasting peace only if their remains
are interred in a grave.


The price of a cemetery plot now averages 7,800 yuan (1,000
dollars) per square metre in Zhengzhou, the capital of central
China's Henan province, up from about 5,000 yuan two years ago,
the paper said.


By comparison, houses in the city average about 4,000 yuan per
square metre.


Surging demand for plots among increasingly affluent Chinese is
raising concern in a country where arable land shrank from 130
million hectares to 122 million hectares (320 million to 300
million acres) between 1996 and 2004.


This has threatened the nation's food security, the official
Xinhua news agency reported last month.


The draft regulations will levy fines up to 500,000 yuan for
anyone who sells grave plots to a buyer who does not produce a
valid death certificate or who sells plots that are too large.


The rules also will advocate sea and river burials, the paper
said.


In the coastal metropolis of Shanghai, city officials this year
have doubled a subsidy for sea burials to 400 yuan out of concern
over shrinking land supplies, it added.


With 100,000 deaths each year, Shanghai expects to run out of
cemetery land within 10 years, it said.


Currently, sea burials account for only 1.6 percent of burials in
the city, the paper said.

