

Two drunken South African fans hurled racist abuse at the
country's rugby Sevens coach after the team were eliminated from
the weekend's Hong Kong tournament, reports said Tuesday.


The men, who are thought to have travelled from South Africa for
the annual three-day 24-team event, also swore at and threatened
coach Paul Treu as he gave a pitch-side interview to South
African TV.


Using derogatory Afrikaans words for black people, they accused
Treu of not picking enough white players, the South China Morning
Post newspaper said. South Africa fielded one white player
through the tournament.


The two men then threatened violence against Treu and then spat
at him as he left the stadium. They also swore and spat at the TV
interviewer, veteran rugby commentator David van der Sandt.


"It was a despicable scene," Van der Sandt was quoted as telling
the Post. "Treu is a thoroughly decent guy and we didn't deserve
this abuse.


"It was one of the most nasty confrontations I have witnessed in
all my years of covering international rugby."


Treu played down the incident: "These things happen, it's the way
of the world unfortunately," he was quoted as saying.


"South African fans spend a lot of money travelling to these
events and get very passionate about their rugby."


Hong Kong's Rugby Union hit out at the pair's behaviour.


"We deplore any kind of racist abuse of this kind. It goes
against the whole spirit of the Sevens," a spokesman was quoted
as saying.


"We have no tolerance for that kind of behaviour and the pair
would have been ejected immediately if we had known about it."


Such incidents are rare at the Hong Kong Sevens, which prides
itself on its friendly if boisterous atmosphere. Police said this
year's event went smoothly, without a single arrest and few
complaints.

