

Myanmar has released a pro-democracy activist who was arrested at
Yangon airport last month as he was about to leave for the United
States, fellow activists said Tuesday.


Thwin Lin Aung, in his 30s, was arrested on March 5 as he
prepared to leave on an international visitor programme sponsored
by the US government. Activists said he was released by Myanmar's
junta on Monday afternoon.


"He was mainly questioned by the officials about the activities
of the American Centre," said Mya Aye, a prominent former student
leader who helped lead an uprising against the military in 1988.


The American Centre is a education centre and library run by the
US embassy here, which authorities treat with suspicion amid
strained relations between the two countries.


The United States has lobbied the United Nations to chastise
Myanmar over human rights abuses and slow democratic reform, and
has itself imposed a slew of economic sanctions against the
isolated regime.


Thwin Lin Aung was also a member of the student movement, and has
served six years in prison for his involvement in a small student
protest in 1996.


Mya Aye accused Myanmar's military government of trying to
intimidate activists, and pointed to the recent unexplained
closure of his family's transport businesses.


"Pro-democracy activists have been suffering the consequences of
our political movements, not only in education but also in our
business," he said.


The United Nations estimates there are about 1,100 political
prisoners in Myanmar, which has been ruled by the military since
1962 and was formerly known as Burma.


The most famous of them is Nobel peace laureate Aung San Suu Kyi,
who has spent more than a decade under house arrest. Her National
League for Democracy party won elections in 1990 but has never
been allowed to take office.

