

Oil prices eased in Asian trade Tuesday amid some profit-taking
as a British stand-off with Iran continued over 15 detained
military personnel, dealers said.


At 11:08 am (0308 GMT) New York's main oil futures contract,
light sweet crude for delivery in May, was 35 cents lower at
65.59 cents a barrel compared with 65.94 dollars in late US
trades.


The contract remains at levels last seen in September.


Brent North Sea crude for May delivery was 16 cents lower at
68.58 dollars.


"There is some profit-taking in the oil market, reflecting ...
thinking that there won't be any real disruption to crude oil
supply and that the (British detention) situation will be
resolved," said Victor Shum, senior principal at Purvin and
Gertz.


Some analysts believe there is a risk that Iran could reduce or
halt oil exports should the crisis with Britain escalate.


Iran, the world's fourth biggest crude producer, captured the 15
Royal Navy sailors and marines in the Gulf on March 23 but the
latest remarks from Iranian officials suggested the tone was
softening, offering a glimpse of a settlement.


Mike Fitzpatrick, of Fimat USA, said during US trading hours that
until there is a general acceptance that tensions have eased over
the Iran issue, "there will probably be a reluctance to press the
downside of the market with anything other than corrective bursts
of profit-taking."


The detention has further poisoned relations between Iran and the
West at time of mounting international impatience with the
Islamic republic over its refusal to rein in its contested
nuclear programme.


"Even if the Iran-British issue is resolved, there is the nuclear
issue. There is no lack of geopolitical risk to drive the
market," Shum said.


The market was also tracking events in Africa's biggest crude
producer, Nigeria, where gunmen in the southern Bayelsa State on
Monday kidnapped two Lebanese nationals, two days after a British
oil worker was seized from an offshore rig.

