

Japan will agree to help Iraq improve crude oil output and push
for reconciliation in the war-torn country when Prime Minister
Nuri al-Maliki comes here next week, officials said Tuesday.


Maliki will pay his maiden visit to the world's second-largest
economy from Sunday to Wednesday and meet with Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe and Emperor Akihito, Japan's foreign ministry said.


"Iraq boasts the world's third-largest crude oil reserves. It is
important for Japan to build a long-term strategic partnership
with Iraq," a ministry statement said.


A Japanese foreign ministry official said Abe would also
"encourage the Iraqi premier, who is a Shiite leader, to further
promote national reconciliation in Iraq," the official said.


The Iraqi premier is expected to sign a 700 million-dollar loan
agreement with Japan to help the war-torn country improve crude
oil output and power generation, an MP close to Maliki said
earlier in Baghdad.


The 40-year loan, part of financial assistance to Iraq announced
by Tokyo in 2003, will go to build pipelines in the southern city
of Basra and improve power transmission facilities across the
nation, lawmaker Sami al-Askari said.


Japanese officials had no immediate comment on the loan
agreement. Japan has offered six billion dollars in debt waivers
and 1.5 billion dollars in aid grants to Baghdad, but much of the
aid is on hold due to security concerns.


Japan last year withdrew its 600 ground troops from Iraq
following a reconstruction mission that marked the first time
since World War II that Tokyo sent troops to a country where
fighting was under way.


Despite their withdrawal, Japan has maintained an air force
mission, which includes some 210 personnel based in Kuwait in
support of US-led forces. It decided last week to extend the
mission by two years.

