

Malaysia's struggling national carmaker Proton has said it has
waived debts of up to 16.5 million pounds (32.64 million dollars)
racked up by its British-based sports car outfit Lotus Group.


The waiver was part of a recapitalisation exercise on March 30
for Lotus, its wholly-owned subsidiary, said Proton.


"The Lotus recapitalisation exercise is part of Proton's
continued commitment toward the Lotus Group and is one of the
elements of the Lotus Group's business turnaround plan," Proton
told Malaysia's bourse late Monday.


The debt-ridden Lotus Group and subsidiary carmaker Group Lotus
last year embarked on a five-year strategic plan which aims for
growth in the company's engineering business as its pursues
strategic pacts with other auto firms.


Loss-making Proton said the recapitalisation exercise would not
affect its own share capital or its net assets or earnings.


Under the exercise, Proton is "waiving certain amounts owing by
the Lotus Group of up to a maximum of 16.50 million pounds
arising from outstanding interest on advances and royalty
payments," it said.


Lotus is repaying an additional 45 million pounds in loans by
issuing new shares to Proton, it said.


The Malaysian carmaker also raised 105.99 million pounds by
enforcing a 90 percent reduction in the value of shares in Lotus
Group and its two subsidiaries, Group Lotus and Lotus Cars
Limited.


It said the money was used "to reduce the accumulated losses of
said companies."


Proton first acquired an 80 percent controlling stake in Lotus
Group in October 1996. The firm produces high-performance sports
cars as well as automotive engineering consultancy services.


In September last year, it ruled out selling Lotus Group, which
is experiencing falling sales in the United States.

