

Taurean Green scored 11 of his 16 points in the first half as
Florida became just the third team in the last 34 years to repeat
as American college champs with an 84-75 win over Ohio State.


"I will definitely enjoy this," said Florida coach Billy Donovan.
"This team is one of the best teams to ever play and they did it
back-to-back so they deserve a lot of credit."


Lee Humphrey added 14 points and Corey Brewer scored 13 for the
Gators (35-5), who made 10-of-18 three-pointers in winning back-
to-back NCAA basketball titles for the first time since Duke in
1991 and 1992.


And those Blue Devils were the only back-to-back winners since
UCLA's unparallelled streak from 1967-73.


Although Monday's margin of victory was not as large as the 86-60
decision that Florida had over Ohio State (35-4) back on December
23, the Gators once again opened the contest up with a decisive
run.


"It feels great. We won again. Yes, two years in a row," said
Brewer as the team celebrated on the floor before heading into
the locker room. "We set records and we make history."


In the previous meeting, the two teams were knotted up at 40-40
with 17:05 remaining before Green's seven points sparked a 20-5
run that led to the rout.


Even though there still was plenty of game remaining in this one,
the Gators took control after a three-pointer by Ivan Harris cut
the Buckeyes' deficit to 24-22 with 5:39 left to play in the
first half.


With the freshman Greg Oden not experiencing his recent early
struggles with fouls, Florida turned its attack outside, as Green
hit a pair of three-pointers and Humphrey and Brewer both added
one during a 16-5 run that gave it a cushion of 40-27 with 1:07
before the half.


While the Gators proved deadly from the arc, the Buckeyes were
ice cold from deep, missing all four of their attempts during the
spurt and finished four- of-23 for the game.


Although a thunderous dunk by Oden closed the scoring in the
first half, Florida led 40-29 at intermission and improved to
28-0 this season when leading at halftime.


Ohio State, which was in search of its first national title since
1960, did open the second with a 7-2 run to close within 42-36.
But it could not get closer as Florida made all the big shots.


"We are going to do it big all day and all night," said Joakim
Noah, the son of French tennis legend Yannick Noah. "The Gator
boys know what I am talking about."


After a three-point play by reserve forward-centre Chris Richard
put the Gators ahead, 61-47, with 8:59 left, the Buckeyes tried
to charge back, going on a 13-5 run behind a jumper and three
free throws by Oden.


Although the lead had been sliced to 66-60 with less than five
minutes remaining, Green answered with a three-pointer, igniting
a 9-2 run.


Oden collected 25 points, 12 rebounds and four blocks and fellow
classmate Mike Conley added 20 for the Buckeyes, who had their
22-game winning streak snapped.

