

The US National Football League has cancelled plans for a pre-
season game this year in Beijing in an apparent setback for its
strategy to seek a new fan base in the world's most populous
country.


A statement seen Tuesday on the American football body's website
said the league had decided to push back its China debut --
originally set for August 9 this year -- to August 2009.


The exhibition game this year would have featured the New England
Patriots against the Seattle Seahawks. The league said it wanted
to hone its overseas experience before staging the Beijing game.


"Chinese fans would be better served if our game in China is
played at a later date after we have launched our international
series of regular-season games," NFL official Mark Waller was
quoted as saying.


"As a new sport in China, it is critical that we create the best
platform for the introduction of the game. We are delighted
Beijing authorities have agreed with our assessment and have
invited us to play in Beijing in 2009."


The league is staging its first regular-season overseas game in
London on October 28 between the Miami Dolphins and New York
Giants.


US magazine Sports Illustrated first reported plans to postpone
the game over the weekend, saying the league decided to wait
until 2009, rather than next year, to avoid clashing with the
Beijing Olympics.


Hugely popular in the United States, the NFL has been less
successful than other American sports leagues such as the
National Basketball Association at developing an international
base.


But the NFL has plans to try to win over Chinese fans and is
establishing an office in Beijing, the statement said.

