

US President George W. Bush and Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-
Maliki agreed Monday on the need to carry out the US-led Baghdad
security plan to completion, the White House said.


"Both leaders agreed on the importance of the present security
plan for Baghdad and other areas of Iraq and agreed that these
plans must be carried out until lasting success can be achieved,"
said spokesman Gordon Johndroe.


The two leaders spoke by videoconference as Bush's Democratic
foes try to condition approval of new emergency funds for the
wars in Afghanistan and Iraq to setting a timetable for a US
troop withdrawal from Iraq.


Bush and Maliki discussed "joint efforts to improve the security
environment and advance the process of national reconciliation,"
said Johndroe, whose brief is national security and US foreign
policy.


The prime minister assured Bush that he would "press forward" on
key legislation aimed at promoting "a national vision for all
Iraqis," Johndroe said in a statement.


Bush assured Maliki of his support for Iraq's government and the
two leaders discussed international efforts to help the strife-
torn country, including an upcoming expanded regional ministerial
conference, said Johndroe.


The conference and a UN-guided international compact to help Iraq
"will provide important opportunities for Iraq's neighbors and
the international community to take concrete measures to assist
the Iraqi government in promoting economic development,
reconciliation, and an end to terrorism and violence in the
country," said the spokesman.

