

Japanese share prices fell 0.12 percent Tuesday morning on fresh
concern over the US housing sector after new home sales in the
world's largest economy dived to a near seven-year low, dealers
said.


Losses were contained, however, amid general caution ahead of a
slew of Japanese economic data out later this week, they said.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's benchmark Nikkei-225 index of leading
shares fell 21.59 points to 17,500.37 at the lunch break, barely
holding the 17,500-point level, after five days of gains.


The TOPIX index of all issues on the Tokyo Stock Exchange's first
section slipped 5.32 points or 0.31 percent to 1,736.05.


Declines led gainers 1,124 to 464, with 116 stocks flat.


Volume dropped to 862 million shares from 934 million shares
Monday morning.


Ryuta Otsuka, a strategist at Toyo Securities, said the early
losses had been due largely to concern about the US economy and
to selling by foreign investors.


"The market managed to narrow its losses as some investors bought
on dips," Otsuka said.


"But share prices were weighed upon around the 17,500-point level
as investors were sitting on the sidelines ahead of the economic
data," he added.


On Friday, Japan will announce its consumer price index,
unemployment data and industrial production figures for last
month. The Bank of Japan will release its closely watched Tankan
business sentiment survey on Monday.


Nippon Steel was up 14 yen or 1.62 percent at 877 after the
Nikkei reported that the company was negotiating with Tata Steel
of India about joint production there of steel sheet for use in
the automotive industry.


Oil stocks were higher after crude oil prices rose overnight
following the UN Security Council's vote for fresh sanctions on
Iran, dealers said.


Inpex Holdings was 27,000 yen or 2.8 percent higher at 974,000,
Showa Shell rose 13 yen or 0.9 percent to 1,410 and Cosmo Oil
gained 5 yen or 1 percent at 496.


Electronics stocks were mostly lower. Advantest fell 100 yen or
1.8 percent to 5,440, Elpida shed 70 yen or 1.4 percent at 4,790,
Rohm slid 130 yen or 1.2 percent to 10,880 and Canon was down 30
yen or 0.5 percent at 6,490.

