

The United States Monday voiced concern at Russian riot police's
suppression of an anti-Kremlin rally in the city of Nizhny
Novgorod, months ahead of key national elections.


"The reaction by local Russian authorities to the 'March of
Dissenters' rally in Nizhniy Novgorod on March 24 raises serious
concerns about Russians' ability to exercise their rights to
assembly, free speech, and peaceful protest," said Tom Casey, a
State Department spokesman.


"More than a hundred political opposition activists were detained
and a number reportedly beaten. Saturday's event is the third
example in four months, following similar events in St.
Petersburg and Moscow, of Russian government heavy-handedness and
overreaction to a peaceful gathering of Russian citizens," Casey
added.


"Our concerns are intensified by the difficulties that opposition
political parties face in trying to register to participate in
elections. We call upon all Russian authorities to respect fully
international standards involving freedom of press, speech, and
assembly," Casey said.


Hundreds of police bundled the marchers, who were defying a ban
on protests to demonstrate against the political stranglehold of
President Vladimir Putin, into prison vans that were driven away
from central Gorky Square.


As a helicopter buzzed overhead, riot police with batons, black
helmets and shields then forced the remaining dozens of
protestors, some of whom were chanting "Fascists!", to disperse.


Organisers said that dozens of activists had also been arrested
ahead of the demonstration in Nizhny Novgorod, a 1.3-million
strong regional centre some 380 kilometers (240 miles) east of
Moscow that is Russia's fourth biggest city.


The rally was organized by The Other Russia, a movement that
brings together a wide range of opposition groups and has held a
series of rallies against Putin's leadership in recent months.

