

The dollar traded mostly lower Monday as weaker-than-expected new
US home sales data prompted renewed questions about the outlook
for the world's biggest economy.


The euro climbed to 1.330 dollars at 2100 GMT from 1.3282 dollars
late in New York on Friday.


The dollar managed a modest rebound late in the day to 118.09 yen
from 118.05 yen late Friday.


Sales of new US homes fell by 3.9 percent in February to a
seasonally adjusted annual rate of 848,000 units, the lowest
level since June 2000, according to figures from the US Commerce
Department.


The department also said that new home sales had fallen by a
revised 15.8 percent to 882,000 units in January, the sharpest
one-month decline since January 1994, when sales plunged by 23.8
percent.


Economists had expected sales to rebound in February to about
995,000 units. The disappointment came after a better-than-
expected report Friday on existing home sales.


"What's happening now is the market is realizing the US housing
market isn't so rosy," said Steve Pearson, currency strategist at
HBOS.


The report "dismisses the notion of stability in the US housing
slowdown, while triggering the classic play of falling risk
appetite," said Ashraf Laidi at CMC Markets.


Laidi said markets will be watching Federal Reserve chairman
Bernanke in Congress later this week for a more detailed
assessment of the housing market, beyond the Fed statement a week
ago of a "continued adjustment."


"As Mr. Bernanke gives a more detailed view on the Fed's
downgrading of the housing sector, we expect the market to
continue dragging the dollar lower and trigger further yen
gains," the analyst added.


However, analysts pointed out that the fall in sales was likely
to have been partly affected by poor weather in February -- the
coldest February since 1994. Markets also kept a wary eye on
rising oil prices after the UN Security Council imposed
additional sanctions against Iran.


The world's fourth biggest oil producer said it would restrict
cooperation with the UN nuclear watchdog in retaliation against
fresh Security Council sanctions over its nuclear program.


The United Nations Security Council voted unanimously Saturday to
impose the new sanctions in a bid to pressure Iran into freezing
its uranium enrichment programme.


In late New York trade, the dollar stood at 1.2154 Swiss francs
after 1.2200 late Friday.


The pound was being traded at 1.9691 dollars from 1.9618.

