

Marshall Faulk, a versatile threat as a rusher and pass catcher
who helped the St. Louis Rams win the 2000 Super Bowl, announced
his retirement from American football here Monday at age 34.


Faulk missed all of last season following reconstructive knee
surgery and spent 2006 as an analyst for the National Football
League's cable television network.


The Rams obtained Faulk from the Indianapolis Colts in 1999 for
two draft picks and the running back claimed NFL Most Valuable
Player honors in 2000, the same year the Rams beat Tennessee
23-16.


Faulk helped the Rams to the 2002 Super Bowl as well, where the
New England Patriots edged them 20-17 to begin their dynasty run.


"Coming to St. Louis was great for my career," Faulk said. "I
will always treasure my years with the Rams."


Faulk ranks ninth on the NFL's all-time rushing list with 12,279
yards and is sixth in all-purpose yards with 19,190. He made 767
catches for 6,875 yards, among the greatest reception efforts for
any rusher in NFL history.


Faulk, who ranks fourth in NFL history with 136 touchdowns, is
the only NFL player with more than 2,000 yards of total offense
in four consecutive seasons, achieving the mark from 1998 through
2001.


"In the last decade, Marshall has established himself as one of
the great players of all time," Rams president John Shaw said.
"He created a standard achieved by no one as a combination
running back and pass receiver.


"Marshall was one of the key ingredients that elevated the Rams
from a team that won four games in 1998 to a world champion in
1999. We'll always remember his fiery competitiveness and will to
win."


Faulk carried only 65 times for 292 yards in 2005 and served in
mainly a backup role for his final two seasons, last cracking
1,000 yards in a season the the 2001 run-up to St. Louis' second
Super Bowl trip.

