

Washington on Monday urged Tokyo to take responsibility for its
role in sex slavery during World War II, after Japan's premier
apologized again for prior comments about the so-called "comfort
women."


"We appreciate that the apology was made. It is a step forward,"
said Tom Casey, deputy State Department spokesman.


"But I think this is a very difficult issue and we certainly
would want to see the Japanese continue to address this and to
deal with it in a forthright and responsible manner that
acknowledges the gravity of the crimes that were committed," he
said.


Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who has repeatedly said he
stands by Japan's landmark 1993 apology to the thousands of
former sex slaves but that he felt no need to make a fresh
statement, on Monday changed that stance.


Questioned in parliament by a leftist lawmaker on whether he was
apologizing himself, Abe said he was.


"I am apologizing now as the prime minister," Abe said, his
spokesman Hiroshi Suzuki told AFP.


"This has been stated in the Kono statement," Abe said.


In 1993, a statement by then chief government spokesman Yohei
Kono apologised to former comfort women and acknowledged that
Japan was involved directly or indirectly in causing their
suffering.


Historians say up to 200,000 young women, mostly from Korea but
also from China, Indonesia, the Philippines and Taiwan, were
forced to serve as sex slaves in Japanese army brothels.


Abe earlier this month triggered an uproar when he said there was
no evidence Japan directly coerced comfort women. He later
elaborated by saying he was talking of coercion in the "strict"
sense, such as kidnapping women.

