

Australia's multiple world and Olympic champion admitted Tuesday
he is not in peak form and played down any chance he might have
of breaking world records in Melbourne.


Hackett, 26, lost his 400m world title to South Korea's Park Tae-
hwan on Sunday and looked sluggish again in qualifying fifth
fastest on Tuesday for the 800m final, another event he is
defending.


Despite his failure to fire, he said he was starting to feel more
like his old self after shoulder surgery early last year kept him
out of the Melbourne Commonwealth Games.


"That felt a little better than the 400 (metres). It's nice to
hit out strong and have something left," he said after posting a
time of 7:51.86, over 13 seconds outside the world record in
Montreal two years ago.


"It's not as tough as the 400m heat. I was being conservative and
sitting comfortably.


"It doesn't always come easy. Sometimes you've just got to fight
for it."


The 800m final is on Wednesday and he believes he can win, but he
said world records may be left for another day.


"I would like to think I can (defend the title). I'm not getting
up on the block to lose. I'll give it 100 percent and see what
the others can throw back at me.


"It's very competitive. I'm not in my peak form, I've got to push
everything out of myself and keep looking forward. It's going to
be a good race."


Hackett has had his worst preparation for a major championships,
switching coaches, recovering from surgery and moving to
Melbourne to be near his girlfriend, and he admits it has hurt
his chances.


"I've had a chicken preparation. I've said that from the start,"
he said.


"But that 400 was the fastest since my shoulder surgery.


"This world championships is all part of the journey towards the
(Beijing) Olympics. I can't just step in where I left off. I have
to be realistic about that.


"I can't be heartbroken about it. You have dips in your career
when it spans such a long period of time. I understand that
although I am not satisfied with it, you can't just sit with your
head in your hands.


"I can afford to have one meet where I don't break records. There
are not too many people who can come back to this level after
shoulder surgery. You just have to keep looking forward."


Hackett also swims in the 1500m, an event in which he is unbeaten
for more than a decade.

