

West Ham centre-back Anton Ferdinand insists that he wants to put
his recent troubles behind him and follow his older brother Rio's
career path into the England team.


The England Under-21s player was disciplined earlier in the month
for breaking club rules and travelling to the USA to celebrate
his 22nd birthday.


His brother Rio had a reputation for poor discipline early in his
career before becoming the cornerstone of the England senior
team.


"It would definitely be nice to play alongside Rio, that would be
one for the family, me and Rio to look back at," he said.


"It's down to me because Rio's there already. He's made mistakes
and he's one of the best defenders in the world, if not the best.


"If the world's best can make mistakes then so can the youngsters
coming up. You don't learn unless you do make those mistakes."


Rio was 23 when he impressed at the 2002 World Cup, just before
joining Manchester United from Leeds. He was also taken to the
1998 tournament but was not used.


However, the younger of the two brothers has a relegation battle
to deal with first with West Ham effectively nine points from
safety.


"You could say it's been my worst time in football but if you
don't make mistakes then you don't learn," he said.


"It's been hard but I want to show people that I've got broad
shoulders and can deal with the pressure. The only way I can do
that is by performing and keeping West Ham United in the
Premiership.


"We're starting to show the fight that we should have been doing
at the start of the season, but we're showing that now and we've
still got a good chance of staying up.


"We can definitely do it. 'It isn't over until the fat lady
sings' is the saying and she isn't singing yet so we've got to
stay positive, which we are doing."

