

European shares lost ground on Monday, with major markets hit by
poor US housing data and some high-profile merger and acquisition
developments, traders said.


London's FTSE 100 index of leading shares fell by 0.75 percent to
6,291.90.


In Paris, the CAC 40 shed 1.04 percent to 5,576.30 points and in
Frankfurt the DAX 30 was down 1.02 percent at 6,828.82.


The DJ Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone blue chip shares gave up
1.18 percent to 4,142.11 points.


In late trades, Europe's single currency stood at 1.3332 dollars.


As European markets closed, the Dow Jones Industrial Average had
lost 0.62 percent to 12,404.02 points, while the tech-heavy
Nasdaq Composite was off by 0.44 percent at 2,438.04.


The broad Standard and Poor's 500 index showed a loss of 0.51
percent to 1,428.74 points.


In Asia, Tokyo's benchmark Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
closed up 0.24 percent at 17,521.96 points. Hong Kong's key Hang
Seng Index finished 0.37 percent higher at 19,765.85.


Trading in Europe and the United States slumped after a US
government report revealed an unexpected dive in new home sales
to their lowest level in almost seven years.


Analysts had expected the Commerce Department report to reveal a
increase in new home sales in February, but sales fell by 3.9
percent, hitting the lowest level since June 2000.


In London, investors also digested news of two takeovers.


Anglo-Swiss mining company Xstrata announced it had made a
friendly cash bid worth 4.6 billion Canadian dollars (3.0 billion
euros, 4.0 US dollars) for nickel producer LionOre Mining
International.


Meanwhile, Taylor Woodrow and George Wimpey said they would merge
to create the biggest British housebuilding group worth about 5.0
billion pounds (7.4 billion euros, 9.8 billion dollars).


On London's second tier FTSE 250 index, Taylor Woodrow shares
rocketed 12.96 percent to close at 475.00 pence and George Wimpey
gained 2.83 percent to end at 653 pence.


Persimmmon, currently Britain's biggest house builder with a
capitalisation of about 4.3 billion pounds, saw its shares climb
by 2.64 percent to 1,437 pence.


Taylor Wimpey -- the name of the new group -- would likely join
Persimmon in the FTSE-100 share index once the merger is
complete.


Within the mining sector however, Xstrata slipped by 0.19 percent
to 2,573 pence on the FTSE 100.


Among its rivals, BHP Billiton was off by 0.89 percent at 1,109
pence and Rio Tinto shed 1.22 percent to 2,845 pence amid fears
that the US housing data was more evidence of a broader economic
downturn.


In Madrid, the announcement of a counter bid for the electricity
group Endesa by the Spanish company Acciona and Italian Enel
pushed up Endesa shares by 3.65 percent to 40.06 euros.


Acciona finished the day essentially unchanged at 162.10 euros,
while Enel was also basically flat at 7.89 euros in Milan.


Shares in the German energy giant E.ON, which is also pursuing
Endesa, lost 0.42 percent to 100.27 euros in Frankfurt.


In Amsterdam, the AEX index was off by 0.98 percent at 508.80,
the Swiss SMI dropped 0.92 percent to 9006,03, in Milan the
SP/Mib lost 1.13 percent to 41,343, in Madrid the Ibex-35 was
down 0.52 percent at 14,469.6 and in Brussels the Bel-20 closed
1.24 percent lower at 4.444.98.

