

Sudanese President Omar al-Beshir was set to meet UN chief Ban
Ki-moon in Riyadh on Tuesday to discuss the Darfur conflict as
Khartoum continues to defy demands to allow UN peacekeepers into
the war-torn region.


Beshir has consistently rejected UN plans to deploy a
peacekeeping force in Darfur and refused to turn over war crimes
suspects to the International Criminal Court.


An Arab League official said on Monday the Riyadh talks would
also be attended by Saudi Arabia's King Abdullah, Arab League
chief Amr Mussa and the head of the African Union's executive
arm, Alpha Oumar Konare.


According to the United Nations, at least 200,00O people have
died and more than two million been displaced since the conflict
between rebels and government forces erupted in Darfur in
February 2003. Some sources say the death toll is much higher.


Tuesday's talks come on the eve of the annual Arab summit in the
Saudi capital which Ban is also due to attend.


On Monday Beshir again refused to have Ahmed Haroun, the current
secretary of state for humanitarian affairs who is suspected by
the International Criminal Court (ICC) of Darfur war crimes,
questioned or sacked.


Haroun "will not resign or be fired and will not be
interrogated," Beshir told the independent daily Al-Sudani in a
new tirade against the tribunal.


Sudanese Foreign Minister Lam Akol echoed Beshir's comments in
Riyadh on Monday, saying the ICC had "no right to put any
Sudanese citizen on trial."


Beshir's remarks came after last week's announcement by Sudan's
general prosecutor that Haroun would be questioned over crimes in
the troubled western Sudanese region, despite having been earlier
cleared of any wrongdoing by the country's judiciary.


In February, ICC prosecutor Luis-Moreno Ocampo accused Haroun and
a local militia leader of 51 crimes against humanity and war
crimes -- including murder, torture and mass rape.

