

Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki and President Jalal Talabani
on Monday sent to the cabinet a new de-Baathification law aimed
at promoting national reconciliation, the premier's office said.


Maliki and Talabani forwarded the new draft law titled
"Questioning and Justice" with a view to "rewriting the de-
Baathfication law," said a statement.


"The aim is to ensure the application of justice and equality,
and the preservation of rights in the context of national
reconciliation," it added.


Under a controversial de-Baathification law, tens of thousands of
members of Iraq's former ruling Baath party were stripped of
their positions in government, universities and companies after
the 2003 US-led invasion toppled Saddam Hussein.


The law has been a major source of grievance for the minority
Sunnis, who have waged a deadly insurgency against US troops and
the Shiite-led, American-backed government in Baghdad.


If the reformed bill is passed, a number of political and
parliamentary committees would be set up to oversee and implement
the law "for the sake of a democratic and open Iraq divorced from
sectarianism, racism, marginalisation, oppression and tyranny,"
Maliki's office said.


"This law will be a pillar in building national reconciliation
and in starting the process of healing and rehabilitation," it
added.


Outgoing US ambassador to Iraq, Zalmay Khalilzad told reporters
in a farewell media conference earlier Monday that Iraqi leaders
were close to agreeing a new de-Baathification law aimed at
promoting reconciliation.


At a summit in Riyadh, Arab foreign ministers also agreed to call
for "reviewing the de-Baathification law in order to enhance the
national reconciliation process in Iraq," according to one
minister present.

