

Canada's first trial for crimes against humanity opened Monday,
with a Rwandan in the dock accused of taking part in his
country's 1994 genocide of ethnic Tutsis.


Desire Munyaneza, 40, is accused of involvement in the rape and
killing of civilians in Butare, southern Rwanda, from April to
July, 1994.


"Either he participated in, helped or encouraged murders, sexual
violence and pillaging with the intention and presence of mind to
destroy the Tutsi population in an armed conflict," prosecutor
Pascale Ledoux said.


Munyaneza pleaded not guilty to the crimes. The trial is due to
last three months.


About 800,000 people, most of them Tutsis, were killed within six
weeks in Rwanda by members of the Hutu ethnic group.


The genocide followed years of tension between the two groups and
was sparked by the death of president Juvenal Habyarimana, a
Hutu, in a plane crash.


Rwandan witnesses are to testify at Munyaneza's trial in the
Quebec high court.


Also due to testify is Romeo Dallaire, the retired Canadian
general who at the time headed a United Nations peacekeeping
force in Rwanda, as well as Canadian police experts who have
investigated the case.


The court was cleared after opening statements to allow an
unidentified witness to enter unrecognized to give anonymous
testimony.


Speaking behind tinted glass, the woman, only 17 during the
genocide, said she witnessed the brutalizing and killing of
Tutsis who sought refuge at a school.


She claimed she was herself bashed in the forehead with a
machete, but clung to life.


Munyaneza and other Hutu militants later pulled several young
Tutsis from a crowd that had sought refuge in Butare, and killed
them, she testified.


The Hutu militants came and went three times per day, she said,
and each time more Tutsis died.


"He was moving around with a club, taking young people, beating
them because they were the ones they wanted to kill first," she
said.


Munyaneza fled to Cameroon after the genocide, then moved to
Canada in 1997 to seek asylum. Authorities turned down the
request because of his suspected role in the atrocities.


Munyaneza was "seen at the wheel of stolen cars ... taking away
Tutsis who were never seen again and were exterminated,"
according to an earlier ruling by Canadian immigration
authorities, quoted in the newspaper La Presse.


The suspect lived with his wife and two children in Toronto while
Canadian authorities carried out an investigation which led to
his arrest and detention in 2005.


Munyaneza is the first person to stand trial in Canada under a
law passed in 2000 for crimes against humanity. In the 1990s
suspected former Nazis were tried under separate war crimes laws,
but not convicted.


Another Rwandan suspected of crimes against humanity, Leon
Mugesera, asked to be tried in Canada instead of being extradited
back to his country, after the extradition move was approved by
Canada's Supreme Court.


The International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda was formed in late
1994 in Tanzania. It has so far convicted 27 suspects in the
massacres and acquitted five.


Another Rwandan asylum seeker wanted on genocide charges could be
tried in New Zealand if his home country does not seek
extradition, according to a newspaper report in Wellington on
March 11.

