

Australian David Hicks pleaded guilty to a charge of supporting
terrorism on Monday before a US military tribunal.


Looking somber with his hands clasped in front of him, Hicks, 31,
stood beside his military lawyer who told the judge his client
would not contest the charge of providing "material support for
terrorism.


The plea came at a hastily arranged hearing a day after defense
lawyers said Hicks was weighing a possible plea deal that could
get him out of Guantanamo Bay, where he has spent more than five
years at a US-run prison for "war on terror" detainees.


The chief prosecutor for the tribunals had said previously that a
20-year sentence would be a "reasonable" benchmark for Hicks. It
was not clear if the military authorities would take into account
his time served at the Guantanamo prison.


Hicks was captured in 2001 by the US-backed Northern Alliance in
Afghanistan, and handed over to the United States, which
eventually transferred him to the Guantanamo camp.


The plea followed a three hour hearing which was supposed to
clear the way for a trial against Hicks before a special US
military tribunal.


Hicks was accused of undergoing training at an Al-Qaeda camp in
Kandahar, southern Afghanistan and volunteered to fight alongside
Taliban forces during the US-led invasion.


The charge sheet does not allege Hicks attacked a US target, but
says he conducted surveillance on the abandoned US embassy in
Kabul and met Osama bin Laden as well as accused "shoe bomber"
Richard Reid.


The Hicks case has became a major political issue in Australia,
with the conservative government lobbying Washington to expedite
the case.

