

US authorities charged David Stockman, a former budget director
to US president Ronald Reagan, with alleged criminal securities
fraud Monday related to a Michigan-based auto parts firm.


New York prosecutors claimed Stockman, who is also a former
Republican congressman, masterminded a complex accounting scam to
manipulate Collins & Aikman, Inc.'s earnings.


Prosecutors said they were seeking hundreds of millions of
dollars in forfeiture from the former top White House official.


"Stockman orchestrated a scheme ... to defraud C&A's
investors, banks, and creditors by manipulating C&A's
reported revenues and earnings," according to charging documents
released by US Attorney Michael Garcia.


Stockman was also charged with obstructing investigators as they
sought to unravel the auto firm's finances.


The former director of the Reagan era Office of Management and
Budget became Collins & Aikman's chairman and chief executive
after forming a private investment fund in 1999 which took over
the auto parts group.


Prosecutors claim Stockman then oversaw the manipulation of the
firm's accounting procedures in a bid to falsely color its
earnings reports to Wall Street and federal regulators.


Stockman was also charged separately by the Securities and
Exchange Commission, America's top market watchdog, with civil
charges.


"The conduct we allege here is especially egregious because
Stockman and the other defendants not only repeatedly engaged in
fraud, but went to great efforts to cover-up their misconduct,
and the company's financial difficulties, from investors,
analysts and others," said SEC enforcement chief Linda Thomsen.


Several other individuals were also charged by investigators for
supporting the scheme.

