

China's Li Na stunned Belgian fourth seed Kim Clijsters here
Monday to reach the quarter-finals of the WTA and ATP Masters
Series hardcourt tournament while world number one Justine Henin
also advanced.


Li, ranked 17th, rallied to oust the 2005 Miami champion and book
a date in the final eight against Russia's Anna Chakvetadze, who
defeated Italy's Maria Santangelo 6-1, 7-5.


Belgium's Henin, the second seed behind Russian Maria Sharapova,
defeated Russia's Vera Zvonareva 6-3, 6-2 to set a quarter-final
date with Russian sixth seed Nadia Petrova, who rallied to beat
compatriot Dinara Safina 3-6, 6-2, 6-4.


"I had an opportunity to raise my level and that's what I did,"
Henin said. "The way the match happened, I'm very happy to win in
two sets like that."


On the men's side of the 6.9 million-dollar tournament, Russian
fourth seed Nikolay Davydenko was eliminated by American Amer
Delic.


The US qualifier dumped Davydenko 7-6 (7/5), 6-3 to book a date
in the round of 16 against Argentina's Juan Ignacio Chela, who
bounced Czech Tomas Berdych 6-4, 7-6 (8/6).


Also advancing in an early third-round match was Spanish sixth
seed Tommy Robredo, who ousted Germany's Florian Meyer 6-4, 6-4.


Robredo's fourth-round match will be against Czech Radek
Stepanek, who eliminated Colombian lucky loser Alejandro Falla
6-3, 6-2.


Women were scheduled to conclude their third round later Monday
when Australian Open champion Serena Williams will play Czech
Lucie Safarova in a match postponed from Sunday by rain.


A victory would send the US star against Sharapova in a rematch
of their January championship final Grand Slam showdown from
Melbourne.

