

Indian growth should slow to 8.0 percent this year before picking
up to 8.3 percent in 2008 despite higher inflation and a weaker
agricultural sector, the Asian Development Bank said Tuesday.


While India's growth momentum was robust in 2006, it also led to
"high capital inflows and currency appreciation pressures," the
ADB said in its annual Outlook report.


"Manufacturing and construction growth have stimulated a
voracious appetite for credit, which in turn complicates attempts
to control money supply," it said.


It said "agricultural stagnation" was also a key structural
challenge as rising food prices contribute largely to inflation.
Stagnation in turn raises pressure to transfer land out of
agriculture for industrial use, causing worker displacement and
serious social unrest.


The construction sector, which plays a major role in the Indian
economy, has been through a boom which drove gross domestic
investment to 33.8 percent of gross domestic product (GDP) in
2005, an upward trend that seems to be continuing.


This investment binge has been met by growth in bank lending,
which now is causing problems in reining in money supply, the ADB
said.


While the federal government has tried to combat inflation with a
raft of measures including a cut in tariffs on imported goods,
including food, the results have been limited.


"Faced with demand-led inflation, the Reserve Bank of India needs
to dampen expenditure," ADB said.


"However, in doing so, it will be important not to reduce the
credit available for expanding manufacturing capacity more than
is necessary to contain inflation ... These capacity expansions
are vital for enhancing growth potential in the medium- to long-
term."

