

Saudi Foreign Minister Prince Saud al-Faisal said on Monday there
was still a chance of ending the political crisis in Lebanon,
although it was to be represented by two delegations at the Arab
summit.


"We see a chance that the Lebanese parties will put their
country's interest above all else," Prince Saud told Arab League
counterparts meeting in Riyadh ahead of an Arab summit opening in
the Saudi capital on Wednesday.


"We urge (the Lebanese) to sit down for a dialogue," he said.


Saudi Arabia has been trying to resolve a months-long political
crisis in Lebanon between the anti-Syrian parliamentary majority
and the opposition led by the Shiite movement Hezbollah, which is
backed by both Syria and Iran.


Leaders of the parliamentary majority, who are close to Saudi
Arabia, and the opposition recently held a series of meetings to
end the standoff which began when six pro-Syrian ministers walked
out of the Western-backed government of Prime Minister Fuad
Siniora in November.


Efforts to end the stalemate were stepped up after Iranian
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad discussed the crisis with King
Abdullah during a landmark visit to Saudi Arabia on March 3.


But the meetings in Beirut failed to yield a breakthrough and
Lebanon is to be represented by two separate delegations at the
summit.


Lebanon's pro-Syrian President Emile Lahoud announced late Monday
that he would lead a team including Fawzi Salukh and Yacub
Sarraf, two of the ministers who stepped down from the
government.


Siniora, who along with the president also received an official
invitation to the summit, is to head the other delegation.


Lahoud had said on Friday he would not form Lebanon's delegation
until the last minute in the hope that agreement could be reached
on the formation of a unity government.

