

Some 1,000 Buddhists rallied in Thailand's Muslim-majority south
Monday, urging the government to do more to halt what they fear
could become a sectarian conflict.


The rally took place outside city hall in the town of Saba Yoi in
Songkhla province, where three students were killed on March 17
in a shooting attack on an Islamic school.


Some Muslim residents of the district have blamed the attack on
security forces -- the school is located near an army ranger base
-- and have called on the government to withdraw the rangers from
the district.


The district chief, Treecha Damkeungkiert, said the Buddhists
rallied to urge the government not to withdraw their forces for
fear of creating a security vacuum in the area.


"About 1,000 Buddhists attended the rally at the Saba Yoi city
hall. It lasted about three hours, and they submitted a letter
demanding that the rangers stay in the district," Treecha said.


"The Buddhists are worried that if the rangers move out, they
would not be safe," he added.


The letter said that if possible, the government should deploy
more forces to the area to help keep the peace, according to
Treecha.


It also said civilians should be allowed to carry arms for self-
defence, and urged the government to provide more weapons for the
district's volunteer defence militia.


The shooting at the Islamic school worsened the already steep
tensions in the region following a series of grisly attacks this
month, including a massacre of nine Buddhists and a bomb attack
on a mosque.


More than 2,000 people have been killed since separatist violence
erupted three years ago in Thailand's Muslim-majority provinces
along the southern border with Malaysia.


Army officials and analysts have warned that the insurgency shows
the increasing influence of Islamic extremism, amid growing fears
among Buddhists that they are being singled out for attack.

