

A new deal between the New Orleans Saints and state officials
will keep the National Football League team here through 2010,
the team announced Monday.


The Saints reached a deal to remain in the Louisiana Superdome
for the next four seasons, eliminating contract escape clauses
that could have let the club relocate in the next year with a vow
to negotiate on a longer-term deal.


"For the foreseeable future, Louisiana's team will keep marching
to victory right here," Louisiana governor Kathleen Blanco said.


Damage caused by Hurricane Katrina forced the Saints to shift
training and home games to San Antonio, Texas, and nearby Baton
Rouge in 2005.


There was speculation Saints owner Tom Benson would try to make
the move to San Antonio permanent but NFL officials insisted the
team play a role in the recovery of the southern US city from the
devastating storm.


The Saints recovered from a woeful 2005 season by reaching the
playoffs in 2006, finishing one victory shy of a trip to their
first Super Bowl and sparking civic pride for a city still
struggling to shake off Katrina's damage.


"Our commitment to New Orleans has been unwavering," said Benson.
"I didn't want there to be any misunderstanding about the club
honoring the contract.


"I anticipate both parties exploring all options available to
retain this very important relationship beyond 2010."


The state of Louisiana eliminated its 2008 contract termination
clause in the lease with the Saints and promised further
enhancements of the Superdome, damaged in the horrific storm.


In exchange, the Saints dropped their termination clause that
could have allowed them out of their commitment this spring.


"We've been steadfast in our belief in Louisiana and have put all
of our resources into being part of the rebuilding," Benson said.


"There are still a lot of challenges ahead, but by focusing on
the future, we can move forward instead of looking back."

