

World record holder Michael Phelps and French star Laure Manaudou
look set for more gold at the world swimming championships but
Australia's Grant Hackett continued to struggle Tuesday.


Phelps looked in ominous form as he registered the fastest time
in the 200-metres butterfly heats and Manaudou powered to a
French record in the 200m freestyle heats.


The American two-time world titleholder eased past Japan's
Ryuichi Shibata to win his heat in one minute 55.78 seconds and
cruise into Tuesday's semi-finals.


Phelps, who has already banked one of a scheduled eight gold
medals at the Melbourne event, holds the world record at 1:53.80
set last August.


"I felt good. The only thing big was in the last 50 metres, I
tried to turn it on," Phelps said.


"There was a guy (Shibata) next to me, and I tried to get my hand
on the wall first."


His semi-final will come after he takes on Dutchman Pieter van
den Hoogenband and rising South Korean star Park Tae-hwan in the
200m freestyle final Tuesday evening.


American teammate Davis Tarwater was the second fastest, winning
his heat in 1:56.63 ahead of Shibata's 1:56.81. Defending
champion Pawel Korzeniowski of Poland was sixth in 1:57.11.


Manaudou swam a French record of 1:57.66 to lead the qualifiers
into the semi- finals of the women's 200m freestyle.


Manaudou, who smashed two championship records on the way to
capturing the world 400m freestyle title on Sunday's opening
night, is now within sight of German Franziska van Almsick's
world record of 1:56.64, set in 2002.


She has a packed schedule later Tuesday, swimming in the finals
of the 100m backstroke and 1500m freestyle, as well as the 200m
freestyle semi-finals.


"I have improved the French record by 0.2 of a second. I didn't
feel any pressure, I was looking to swim a good race and I did a
good last lap," Manaudou said.


American Katie Hoff, who won the world 200 medley crown on
Monday, was second quickest with 1:58.17 in front of Sweden's
Josefin Lillhage 1:58.24.


But Hackett, who won the 400-800-1500m titles at the 2005
Montreal world championships, again looked sluggish, this time in
the 800m freestyle following his bronze medal behind Park in the
400m.


Hackett was fifth fastest into the final behind teammate Craig
Stevens (7:50.72) with his time of 7:51.86 over 13 seconds
outside the world record he set in Montreal.


"That felt a little better than the 400 (metres). It's nice to
hit out strong and have something left," said Hackett, adding
that he believed he could defend his title.


"I would like to think I can. I'm not getting up on the block to
lose."


South African Cameron van der Burgh swam close to the
championship record to post the top qualifying time for the heats
of the men's 50m breaststroke.


Van der Burgh's 27.49secs was just three-hundredths of a second
outside Britain's James Gibson's record in winning the event at
the 2003 Barcelona world championships.


"I dropped my personal best by a second. My coach and I have been
doing a lot of gym work and explosive work and it all just fell
into place," van der Burgh said.


He goes into the semi-finals later Tuesday fastest ahead of
Italian Alessandro Terrin (27.53) and American Brendan Hansen
(27.64).


German defending champion Mark Warnecke failed to qualify for the
semis.

