

As the US Senate Monday launched a fresh assault on President
George W. Bush over Iraq, a new poll found six in ten Americans
want their congressional representative to vote to bring troops
home by August 2008.


Only 36 percent of those polled thought Bush's plan to surge more
troops into the conflict would work, and the poll showed public
opinion on the war as it grinds into a fifth year largely breaks
down on partisan lines.


The survey by The Pew Research Center for the People and the
Press was released as the US Senate opened debate on a Democratic
bid to get US troops out of Iraq within a year, despite Bush's
vow to veto any such timetable.


Fifty-nine percent of respondents to the Pew poll said they
wanted their congressional representative to vote for legislation
requiring withdrawal of US forces from Iraq by August 2008.


Only 33 percent wanted their congressional representative to
oppose such a measure.


The House of Representatives last week backed binding legislation
that would call for the withdrawal of US combat troops from Iraq
by August 31, 2008 at the latest, linking the move to approval of
a 124 billion dollar war budget.


The Senate opened debate on the war budget for Iraq and
Afghanistan on Monday. Its version of the budget included a
Democratic attempt to demand the withdrawal of US troops by the
end of March 2008.


Despite public discontent over the war, the poll did find a
slight increase in optimism over the situation in Iraq, with 40
percent of those polled saying in March that things were going
well in Iraq, up from 30 percent in February.


But that increase could be largely attributed to rising
confidence among Republicans in the Bush war policy.


In total only 36 percent of those polled think the surge policy
will make things better in Iraq.


The nationwide survey was carried out between March 21 and 25
among 1,503 people.

