

China's economic growth will ease only slightly this year and
next despite slowing exports and a crackdown on wasteful
investment, the Asian Development Bank said in a report released
here Tuesday.


Despite the central government's efforts to moderate growth, the
economy is still forecast to expand 10 percent this year and 9.8
percent in 2008 compared to 10.7 percent last year, the Asian
Development Outlook report said.


This will still be "far from the indicative programme target" of
average annual growth of 7.5 percent over the five years to 2010,
it added.


It said the main domestic risk is posed by local governments if
they "do not respond to the central government's restrictive
measures -- and they have not done in the past several years.


"Should investment continue to run at more than 20 percent a
year, what has been a source of growth for many years could turn
out to be a curse, if it leads to a further buildup in excess
capacity and deflation (that could) erode profitability," it
added.


Beijing has been reining in investment to address significant
oversupply in some sectors, while "softer external markets" and
reduced tax rebates should ease export growth.


The ADB estimates that "if all the measures to rein in growth are
successfully implemented, growth in 2007-2008 could slow more
sharply, to about 9.0 percent."


The report said China's economy should grow an average of about
9.0 percent every year in the five years to 2011, when inflation
would also be higher than current figures but "probably less than
3.0 percent on average."


The bank urged Beijing to "create the legal and regulatory
structure that underpins development of a market-based economy."

