

The BBC on Monday defended a decision to record an upcoming
Easter religious show last November, saying it saved money by
recording the programme at the same time as a Christmas cathedral
broadcast.


The two episodes of the weekly Sunday religious show "Songs of
Praise" were recorded one after the other four months ago at
Lichfield Cathedral, the broadcaster confirmed, saying it was
"unlikely" viewers would notice.


"There was no deception on the part of the BBC because we made it
perfectly clear to the cathedral authorities and congregation,"
said a BBC spokesman.


"Particularly somewhere like Lichfield Cathedral, we go there and
record two programmes in one place because it's a better use of
resources and time for taking the cathedral out of use.


The double recording was inadvertently revealed by the bishop of
Lichfield, the Right Reverend Jonathan Gledhill, who mentioned
the incident in a recent speech on the media.


Specifically he recalled the programme makers' decision to "just
change the flowers and get bright lights outside to mimic lighter
spring evenings" than those available naturally in autumn.


"It wasn't a deliberate deceit, but it will give an air of
unreality to the Easter programme," he was reported as saying.


The publicly-financed broadcaster insisted it was only thinking
of the taxpayers' money.


"There's absolutely no intention to deceive whatsoever.
Cathedrals are expensive places. They spend a lot of time rigging
up and getting them ready, therefore it makes sense," said the
spokesman.


Gavin Drake, director of communications for the diocese of
Lichfield, central England, declined to say whether the bishop
would have preferred the programme to have been made at Easter.


"I can't answer that. Our position is that we are privileged that
the BBC chose to come to Lichfield for Christmas and Easter."

