

The US Senate on Monday opened debate on legislation which sets a
goal of pulling combat troops out of Iraq by March 31, 2008,
launching a new showdown with President George W. Bush.


The debate came after the House of Representatives last week
passed its own version of the spending bill for the wars in Iraq
and Afghanistan, including a firm deadline for getting US troops
out of Iraq by August 31, 2008.


Bush has vowed to veto any legislation that calls for a timetable
for withdrawal, and accused Democratic leaders of micromanaging
military strategy best left to generals.


"We are now in the fifth year of the war, a terrible war," said
Democratic Senator Robert Byrd as he opened the debate.


"Our job in the Senate is not to look backwards, but to look
forwards, the constitution clearly gives the Congress the power
... to decide when this nation should go to war ... and the power
of the purse."


But Republican Senator Thad Cochran said the Senate would be
better served by giving Bush's new strategy to surge more than
21,500 troops into Iraq time to work.


"The Senate should provide the resources necessary to accomplish
this mission. Congress should not be tying the hands of our
commanders.


No votes were expected on the 121.6 billion dollar budget on
Monday. Bush's Republican allies have signaled they will try to
block the timeline for withdrawal.


On March 15, the Senate voted against a previous Democratic
resolution intended to establish a timetable for withdrawing
troops from Iraq, casting doubt on the capacity of Senate
Democrats to include a withdrawal timetable in the war budget.


Once a budget is passed, the Senate bill must be reconciled with
the 124 billion dollar version passed by the House, before it is
sent for Bush's signature.

