

A crew of computer-animated ninja turtles slashed and kicked
their way back from 1980s stardom, taking the top seat at the
North American box-office, final industry figures showed Monday.


"TMNT," the action saga of the teenage mutant ninja turtles,
grabbed 24.3 million dollars and ousted the Greco-Persian war
epic "300" from its two-week reign over North American theatres,
according to figures from box-office tracker Exhibitor Relations.


Movie-goer parents who were fans in the 1980s and 1990s brought
their young ones in droves to see the martial-arts turtles battle
back from dysfunction and lethargy to fight crime once again.


In second place was the controversial "300," which covers the 480
BC Battle of Thermopylae between a massive invading Persian force
and outnumbered Greek soldiers, with 19.9 million dollars.


Though the film has angered Iranian authorities who complain it
portrays their ancient ancestors as savages, it has made a
surprise splash at North American theatres, raking in 161.7
million dollars in its first three weeks.


Debuting in third place with 14.5 million was "Shooter," starring
Mark Wahlberg, just nominated for best supporting actor in Martin
Scorsese's winner "The Departed," as a sniper framed for
assassination.


The comedy "Wild Hogs," which portrays the bumbling motorcycle
road trip of a handful of middle-age suburbanites, took fourth
place with 13.9 million,


The futuristic save-the-planet feature "The Last Mimzy" opened at
fifth with 9.5 million, while debuting at sixth was "The Hills
Have Eyes 2," the horror sequel to last year's remake of the Wes
Craven original, which snatched 9.7 million.


The Sandra Bullock thriller "Premonition" fell to seventh with
9.6 million.


"Reign Over Me," a September 11 recovery story starring Adam
Sandler took in 7.5 million and "Pride," about the challenges
faced by a 1970s African American swim team, earned 3.5 million.


In 10th place, the mad ventriloquist horror pic "Dead Silence,"
earned 3.4 million, and comedian Chris Rock's "I Think I Love My
Wife" 2.8 million.


Rounding out the top 12 films of the weekend was family adventure
story "Bridge to Terabithia," based on the award-winning novel by
Katherine Paterson, took 2.3 million dollars.


The top 12 films pulled in 121.3 million dollars for the Friday
to Sunday period, an increase of 24 percent from a year earlier.

