

The detective leading the investigation into the murder of
Pakistan cricket coach Bob Woolmer on Monday played down British
reports identifying three fans wanted in connection with the
killing.


Jamaican police deputy commissioner Mark Shields said
investigators were "nowhere near" being able to pinpoint
potential suspects or name names, describing the reports as
"unhelpful".


The British press "are totally wrong with all due respect on this
occasion," Shields told a news conference.


"The reality as I've said before is that there are many potential
suspects in this investigation and even more potential witnesses,
and we are nowhere the stage of being able to start naming names
in terms of suspects."


Shields also appealed for restraint from international media who
have descended on Kingston since Woolmer's death was declared
murder, describing speculation as "very upsetting" for the slain
cricket coach's family.


Shields was earlier quoted as saying by The Times that detectives
were trying to trace three Pakistani fans who socialized with
players at Kingston's Pegasus Hotel where Woolmer was strangled.


The report said the three were believed to have left Jamaica
shortly after 58 -year-old Woolmer was found dead on March 18.


His death came just one day after a stunning defeat to debutantes
Ireland, which knocked Pakistan out of the World Cup, stirring
speculation match-fixing gangs may have been involved in the
murder.


According to The Times, Jamaican police are anxious to speak to
the three because of the ready access they had to the team before
Woolmer's death, and were not singling them out for special
attention.


The three are all Pakistanis and were identified by The Times as
Hamid Malik, Jundie Khan and Efran Chaudhray.

