

The dollar fell to its lowest level against the euro in two years
Monday following the release of weaker-than-expected new US homes
data.


The euro rose to 1.3332 dollars in late European trading, from
1.3282 dollars late in New York on Friday.


The dollar fell to 117.84 yen from 118.05 yen late Friday.


Sales of new US homes fell by 3.9 percent in February to a
seasonally adjusted annual rate of 848,000 units, the lowest
level since June 2000, according to figures from the US Commerce
Department.


The department also said that new home sales had fallen by a
revised 15.8 percent to 882,000 units in January, the sharpest
one-month decline since January 1994, when sales plunged by 23.8
percent.


Economists had expected sales to rebound in February to about
995,000 units. "What's happening now is the market is realising
the US housing market isn't so rosy," said Steve Pearson,
currency strategist at HBOS.


However, analysts pointed out that the fall in sales was likely
to have been partly affected by poor weather in February -- the
coldest February since 1994. The northeastern United States,
which had particularly harsh weather, recorded a 26.8 percent
fall in new homes sales, while in the west there was a 24.6
percent rise.


"With the deepest declines in February recorded in the northeast
and midwest it is possible that poor weather impacted sales in
the month. Nonetheless this is a weak report on housing
activity," said John Ryding, US economist at Bear Stearns.


Markets also kept a wary eye on rising oil prices after the UN
Security Council imposed additional sanctions against Iran.


The world's fourth biggest oil producer said it would restrict
cooperation with the UN nuclear watchdog in retaliation against
fresh Security Council sanctions over its nuclear programme.


The United Nations Security Council voted unanimously Saturday to
impose the new sanctions in a bid to pressure Iran into freezing
its uranium enrichment programme.


But Europe's single curreny was largely unaffected by early signs
that German inflation figures might be slightly higher than
expected on a month-on-month basis.


Consumer prices in the state of North Rhine-Westphalia rose by
0.5 percent in March from February, while the market consensus
was for a 0.3 percent rise across the board.


On a 12-month basis the state posted a 2.0 percent rise, in line
with expectations.


German inflation figures due on Friday are part of a raft of
eurozone data expected this week, with key figures on eurozone
money supply out Wednesday and the German Ifo business confidence
survey on Tuesday.


The euro was changing hands at 1.3332 dollars, against 1.3282
dollars on Friday, 157.12 yen (156.89), 0.6771 pounds (0.6775)
and 1.6192 Swiss francs (1.6192).


The dollar stood at 117.82 yen (118.05) and 1.2147 Swiss francs
(1.2200).


The pound was being traded at 1.9691 dollars (1.9618).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold rose to 663
dollars per ounce, from 656.20 dollars late on Friday.

