

The Rome diocese was set Tuesday to announce the completion of
the first stage of the fast-track process to beatify pope John
Paul II, placing the late pontiff further down the road to
sainthood.


The end of the review of John Paul II's "life, virtues, writings
and reputation for holiness" will be marked with a ceremony on
April 2, the second anniversary of the death of the popular
Polish pope.


The landmark will be celebrated at the Basilica di San Giovanni
in Laterano, the seat of the vicar of Rome -- a position held ex
officio by the head of the Roman Catholic Church.


The diocese will formally hand over the dossier for John Paul
II's beatification to the Vatican's Congregation for the Causes
of the Saints, which is likely eventually to propose that Pope
Benedict XVI recognise his predecessor's "heroic virtues" and
proclaim him "blessed."


Benedict launched John Paul II's beatification process in May
2005, waiving the customary five-year period after the death of a
candidate.


The late pontiff himself waived the requirement -- intended to
prevent sentiments from clouding judgement soon after the death
of a beloved candidate -- for Mother Teresa of Calcutta, whom he
beatified in 2003.


Mourners at John Paul II's funeral in April 2005 called for him
to be made a saint immediately, chanting "Santo Subito!"


The process leading to sainthood usually takes decades if not
centuries.


Convincing evidence of a miracle -- usually a medical cure with
no scientific explanation -- is a key part of the beatification
process. A second miracle attributed to the candidate's
intercession with God is necessary for full sainthood.


The Rome diocese's website carries dozens of testimonials from
individuals describing possible miracles at the hands of the
pope.


Investigators have focussed on a French nun reportedly cured of
Parkinson's disease in October 2005 after prayers to John Paul
II.


The late pope's beatification process has not all been plain
sailing. In December 2005, 11 dissident Catholic theologians
insisted in a letter to the Vatican that the "negative" effects
of his 27-year pontificate be investigated.


In particular they cited his rigidly conservative stand on issues
such as contraception, the role of women and sexual abuse
scandals within the Church.


And the head of the Congregation for the Causes of the Saints
said last April that there would be no rush to beatify John Paul
II.


"The sainthood of a pope needs much more certainty and depth than
that of a simple man of faith or a martyr," Cardinal Jose Maria
Saraiva Martins told the Portuguese daily newspaper Diario de
Noticias.


A miracle "has to be a cure proven by doctors that has no
scientific explanation, a phenomenon that is not natural. It has
to be proven that the cure would have been impossible through
human means," the Portuguese cardinal said.


John Paul II is himself known as the greatest "saint maker" in
the history of the Catholic Church. He created more saints -- 482
-- than all the other popes put together.

