

There is still time to resolve the stand-off between Iran and the
international community over its nuclear enrichment programme via
diplomacy, US Undersecretary of State Nicholas Burns said in an
interview published Tuesday.


Speaking to the Financial Times from Brussels, Burns said that
the United States had "patiently helped to construct this big
international coalition," referring to a unanimous UN Security
Council vote on Saturday to widen sanctions on Iran over its
atomic ambitions.


"I think we have time in which to work," he told the business
daily.


"Diplomacy, if it is to be successful, will require patience and
persistence and some time if it is to play itself out."


According to Burns, Iran is "clearly in a disadvantageous
position internationally -- much more so than where they were six
months or 12 months ago."


The council's five permanent members -- Britain, China, France,
Russia, and the United States -- plus Germany have been pressing
Iran to return to talks aimed at allaying fears it seeks to
develop atomic weapons.


Burns noted that the Iranian leadership was "not a monolithic
regime; it's a cacophonous government that is fighting, we think,
within itself."


"We do know that there are people there who want to negotiate and
we hope that they will be able to engineer a decision to do just
that."


He also dismissed Iranian claims that it will install 3,000
centrifuges with which it can enrich uranium by May.


"I think the Iranians have had a considerable degree of
difficulty in proceeding with their enrichment experimentation,"
Burns was quoted as saying by the FT.


"They have made these fantastic claims ... and yet according to
the International Atomic Energy Agency, they have not been able
to manage quite as well as they thought they would."

