

The trial resumed Monday of a British aristocrat charged with
murder in the shooting of a trespasser on his ancestral ranch,
after a month-long break in the Kenyan capital.


Thomas Cholmondeley, son of the fifth Baron Delamere and great-
grandson of Kenya's most prominent early settler, is charged with
killing poacher Robert Njoya.


So far, the prosecution has called for 27 witnesses in the trial,
in which Cholmondeley faces a death sentence if convicted, but
Kenya has not carried out a death sentence since 1987.


Cholmondeley, who in 2005 escaped murder charges over the killing
of another Kenyan on his property, about 90 kilometres (55 miles)
northwest of Nairobi, has pleaded not guilty in a case that has
torn open old colonial-era wounds.


He says he accidentally shot Njoya after being threatened by men
on the Delameres' Soysambu ranch in the Rift Valley, where crime
against Europeans has been on the rise.


But prosecutors say Cholmondeley intentionally shot Njoya while
he was running away and then tried to cover up the crime by
tampering with evidence at the scene.


Cholmondeley's cases have received particular attention because
of his family history.


His great-grandfather, the third Baron Delamere, was a key player
in Britain's colonisation of Kenya, overseeing the settlement of
the so-called "white highlands".


His grandfather achieved notoriety in 1955 when he married Diana
Broughton, a central figure in the murder of her lover Josslyn
Hay, the 22nd Earl of Errol.


Diana's first husband, Jock Broughton, was tried for the murder,
which took place on the outskirts of Nairobi in 1941, but was
acquitted in a sensational trial that rocked what was then
British East Africa.


The saga was recounted by James Fox in his book "White Mischief",
which was later made into a film.

