

Jordan's King Abdullah II called on Israel on Monday to accept an
Arab peace plan, and said this week's Arab summit in Riyadh must
send a "clear message" of peace to the world.


"Israel is required to accept the Arab initiative and end the
occupation" of Arab lands seized in 1967, he told Saudi-owned,
Dubai-based Al-Arabiya satellite news channel, according to a
transcript of his remarks provided to AFP.


Arab foreign ministers who met in the Saudi capital on Monday to
prepare for the annual summit of heads of state agreed to revive
the five-year-old plan and called for working teams to be set up
to contact all players in the Middle East peace process,
including Israel.


Israel must "espouse the principle of a two-state solution and
apply this principle on the ground on the basis of the
resolutions of international legitimacy and agreements signed
with the Palestinians in the past," the king said.


The Saudi-inspired Arab plan proposes full normalisation of
relations with Israel if it fully withdraws from all land it
occupied in 1967, permits the creation of an independent
Palestinian state and allows the return of Palestinian refugees.


Israel rejected the initiative when it was first adopted by an
Arab summit in Beirut in 2002, but Israeli leaders have recently
spoken more positively of the plan as a starting point for talks.


Jordan's monarch said the Arab summit, opening on Wednesday, must
"address a clear message to the world expressing the Arabs' good
intentions and their quest for peace and stability in this
region."


The Palestinians in turn must unite around a position based on
commitment to past agreements with Israel, he added.

