

England seamer Sajid Mahmood believes Kevin Pietersen's elevation
to the position of best batsman in the world could spark a
serious World Cup challenge.


Pietersen became only the third English player to reach the top
of the rankings when he deposed Australia's Michael Hussey on
Monday.


The batsman hit 56 not out in the win over Kenya on Saturday to
ensure England reached the second round Super Eights as Group C
runners-up behind New Zealand.


"It's a big lift knowing we have the number one batsman in the
world in our side, and hopefully the other guys can feed off
that," said Mahmood.


"He's a fantastic player and I think he deserves to be in the top
spot. The way he's performed has been brilliant and his average
speaks for itself.


"It's difficult bowling at him in the nets because he has these
really strange shots which he pulls out of nowhere, and you think
to yourself 'how has he hit that, I've never been hit like that
before.'


"But I'm fortunate I don't play against him in a match situation
- he's a lot more relaxed in the nets than he is during a game so
I'm happy to bowl at him then, rather than in the middle."


As far as his own form is concerned, Mahmood, who took a wicket
in the win over Kenya, insists he has a bigger role to play in
the remainder of the tournament.


"I would have liked to get a couple more wickets, but I haven't
really played for a month or so now, so to get into a rhythm and
bowl a few overs and feel the atmosphere is a good thing," he
said.


"I've been working really hard in the nets, so pretty much
everything was there already, the only thing that wasn't was the
match pressure I had to face.


"It was good to get out there before the Super Eights to get used
to the conditions though, and hopefully I can get a few more
games in that part of the competition and do well."


England face Ireland in their Super Eights opener in Guyana on
Thursday.

