

A movie biopic based on the rise and fall of Argentine football
legend Diego Maradona is set to be released in cinemas throughout
Italy on Friday.


Directed by Marco Risi, Maradona La Mano di Dio, or The Hand of
God, the phrase the Argentine used to explain how he scored a
controversial goal against England with his hand in the 1986
World Cup quarter-finals, takes in different phases of the
player's life including his drug problems.


Risi said that he wanted to show the humanity of a player
regarded as one of the all-time greats, but who has battled drugs
and ill health.


"Of course he took cocaine but he wasn't a member of government,"
said Risi. "Maradona was a genius who basically thoughout his
life only harmed himself," added Risi, who discribed the goal
scored against England as "an artistic gesture".


Regarded as one of the world's greatest-ever footballers,
Maradona shares FIFA's title of the 20th century's best player
with Brazil's Pele after a sparkling career with Boca Juniors,
Barcelona and Napoli.


He amassed a fortune during his years in football but his life
off the pitch has been checkered by embarrassing episodes since
his retirement at 37, with scandals covering the gamut of marital
infidelity, cocaine use and tax evasion.


Maradona, 46, helped Argentina win the 1986 World Cup and led
Italian side Napoli to their only two league titles in 1987 and
1990.


Set to be released in more than a hundred cinemas throughout
Italy, the film will also be shown at the Cannes Film Festival in
May.

