

The UN Human Rights Council decided on Monday to drop its
examination of violations in Iran and Uzbekistan, the body's
president said here.


The move followed a recommendation by most of the five states
overseeing the special procedure against Iran and Uzbekistan,
which allowed the two countries to be examined confidentially
behind closed doors, diplomats said.


Council president Luis Alfonso de Alba said the 47-member Council
had decided "not to continue the examination of the situation" in
the two countries. He gave no further details.


Diplomats said the recommendation to drop the probe was headed by
Azerbaijan, Bangladesh and Zimbabwe, while Argentina and France
wanted to pursue it.


The campaign group Human Rights Watch last week urged the UN's
top rights assembly to continue the probes in public,
particularly on Uzbekistan.


"Some at the Human Rights Council assert that the situation in
Uzbekistan is improving.  The facts paint a much different
picture than that found in travel books," HRW said in an open
letter.


HRW accused the Uzbek government of continuing an "unprecedented"
crackdown against political opponents. It warned that no one had
been held accountable for the killing of protestors in the city
of Andijan in May 2005.


"Discontinuing consideration would reward the Uzbek government
for its non- cooperation and the worsening human rights
situation, and would encourage further abuses," the US-based
group warned.

