

Japan's leading steelmaker Nippon Steel is planning to enter the
booming Indian market through a tie-up with the country's major
conglomerate Tata, a newspaper said Tuesday.


Nippon Steel, the world's second largest steelmaker after the new
Arcelor-Mittal behemoth, would be the first Japanese steelmaker
to produce steel in India.


The Japanese company is in talks with Tata Steel to produce steel
sheet for Japanese automakers operating in India as early as
2010, the Nikkei business daily said, quoting company officials.


"We are considering a wide range of joint operations with Tata
Steel in India, with co-production of steel sheet for cars
looking promising," Nippon Steel president Akio Mimura was quoted
as saying.


Tata Steel Managing Director B. Muthuraman told the Nikkei that
he was "optimistic" about the talks' progress.


The two firms are expected to invest about 50 billion yen (430
million dollars) in a plant for thin sheet for car bodies, with
annual output capacity of one million tons, it said, adding that
the location was not yet decided.


Japanese automakers have been stepping up their presence in
India, which is posting rapid macroeconomic growth. Suzuki Motor
Corp holds a majority stake in Maruti Udyog, India's largest
carmaker.


But Japanese automakers in India are still largely dependent on
imported high- end steel, particularly from Japan and South
Korea.


A Nippon Steel spokesman declined to comment on the report.


The Japanese firm has been looking to extend alliances since
Mittal Steel, a Dutch-based company founded by Indian-born mogul
Lakshmi Mittal, completed its massive and controversial takeover
of rival Arcelor.


Nippon Steel shares rose on the report.


The company's shares on the Tokyo Stock Exchange were up 14 yen
or 1.62 percent at 877 yen at the lunch break while the benchmark
Nikkei-225 index was down 0.12 percent.

