

The United States on Monday applauded a deal struck overnight
that will allow Northern Ireland to restore self-rule after
landmark talks between longtime rival Catholic and Protestant
leaders.


"The United States welcomes the historic agreement between Ian
Paisley and Gerry Adams," US special envoy on Northern Ireland
Paula Dobriansky said of the unprecedented face-to-face talks
between the firebrand leader of the Protestant Democratic
Unionist Party and the head of mainly Catholic Sinn Fein.


"We congratulate the people of Northern Ireland," Dobriansky
said.


"Today's agreement demonstrates a new era in Northern Ireland and
augers well for the successful establishment of a fully
functioning Northern Ireland Assembly."


She also congratulated British Prime Minister Tony Blair and his
Irish counterpart Bertie Ahern "whose leadership throughout the
process was critical to bringing a successful conclusion."


State Department spokesman Tom Casey also described it as "an
historic meeting . . . that will allow for the government to
stand up and not require a return for direct rule from Britain."


It marked a "very positive step and one that moves the process
forward. We welcome it and certainly hope to see that agreement
now implemented."


Paisley and Adams met hours before a midnight (2300 GMT) deadline
set by the Irish and British governments for a deal to share
power and restore self-rule in Northern Ireland following a five-
year suspension.


The two leaders agreed in principle for the deal to take effect
on May 8.

