

US shares closed mixed Monday after a government report showed
new home sales dived to a near seven-year low last month spelling
further bad news for the troubled housing sector.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average finished down 11.94 points (0.10
percent) at 12,469.07. The Dow, however, had managed to recover
somewhat from earlier lows.


The Nasdaq composite added 6.70 points (0.27 percent) to 2,455.63
while the broad-market Standard and Poor's 500 rose 1.39 points
(0.10 percent) to 1,437.50.


Most economists had been expecting the housing report to reveal
an increase in new home sales last month, but the Commerce
Department said that sales fell 3.9 percent in February, hitting
the lowest level since June 2000.


Stocks fell sharply in the wake of the report's release, but
showed signs of recovery in afternoon trading.


The report showed an annualized rate of 848,000 new properties
were sold last month, well below the average Wall Street estimate
of 995,000 properties.


"New home sales were much lower than expected," said Peter
Cardillo, an analyst at Avalon Partners.


"It's weighting on the market because there are fears that the
economy is slowing too much and that it could be negative for
corporate earnings," Cardillo said.


If the pace of sales stays at levels seen in February, the supply
of new homes on the US market would take 8.1 months to sell, up
sharply from January's clip of 7.3 months and the highest monthly
supply in 16 years.


The housing market fell into a slump last year following several
years of breakneck growth which triggered a speculative frenzy in
some markets such as Florida and Nevada.


Home builder stocks lost ground in the wake of the report. KB
Home closed down 87 cents at 45.99 dollars while Pulte Homes was
31 cents lower at 27.25 dollars and Beazer Homes finished down 84
cents at 32.32 dollars.


On the banking front, Citigroup was in focus after the Wall
Street Journal reported the global banking giant was close to
announcing 15,000 job cuts and a charge against earnings of over
one billion dollars as part of a restructuring shake up.


Shares in Citigroup, which has overhauled up its top management
ranks in recent months, ended down 18 cents at 51.54 dollars.


Separately, chip leader Intel announced plans to build a 2.5
-billion-dollar plant in fast-growing China.


The plant, to be situated in northeast China's Dalian city, will
initially produce less advanced chipsets for computers although
Intel has not ruled out incorporating more advanced technology
into its future plans for the plant.


The integrated wafer plant, called Fab 68, will be the first of
its kind for Intel in Asia.


Intel's shares closed up two cents at 19.29 dollars.


General Electric's shares meanwhile were 18 cents higher at 36.00
dollars after the Financial Times reported that state-controlled
Saudi Basic Industries Corporation was putting together a bid for
GE's plastics division that could be priced at up to 12 billion
dollars.


Oil prices surged higher, further suppressing stocks, amid Iran-
related geopolitical jitters.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, gained 63 cents to close at 62.91 dollars after
earlier striking 63.30 dollars -- last seen on December 21.


Bond prices swung higher as the yield on the 10-year US Treasury
bond dropped to 4.587 percent from 4.613 percent Monday and that
on the 30-year bond fell to 4.783 percent from 4.799 percent.
Bond yields and prices move in opposite directions.

