

Bangladesh real estate companies said Saturday they face
financial ruin following a government corruption crackdown on new
apartment owners.


Authorities started to tackle widespread graft in late January
after a military- backed government came to power with a pledge
to wage an all-out fight against graft.


"Security forces came to our offices and building sites. They
demanded names of owners of all the flats we sold in the last
five years," said Abdul Awal, president of Real Estate and
Housing Association of Bangladesh (REHAB).


"It has created panic among clients. No client wants to buy flats
for fear of being asked about the source of his money. It's a
disaster for us," he said.


Dwellings are traditionally partly paid for in Bangladesh with
"black" undeclared money which means the registered prices of the
properties are lower than the actual market value.


Sometimes the black component of a transaction can go up to 90
percent.


The association said initially the crackdown had hit luxury flat
sales because the country's rich people were afraid to make any
financial deals.


But now even ordinary buyers are panicking because they think
buying a flat will land them in trouble, said Toufiq M. Seraj,
chief executive officer of country's leading real estate company
Sheltech.


As a result, REHAB said the country's whole construction sector
is facing a sharp slowdown, affecting allied industries such as
cement, rod, ceramic and construction materials.


The housing association said it had been asked to submit tax
numbers of clients and prices for which properties were sold.


"It's OK if they want information on a particular client. But
when they began to inquire about everything, it obviously creates
panic. And people react swiftly to any panic," Sheltech's Seraj
added.

