

A US Treasury delegation will discuss with Macau authorities
Saturday what steps can be taken for restrictions on a local bank
linked to North Korea to be lifted, a spokesman said.


Deputy Assistant Secretary Daniel Glaser is leading the
delegation to Macau to continue discussions on Macau-based bank
Banco Delta Asia (BDA), at the centre of US financial sanctions
against North Korea.


"Discussions will focus on implementation of the final rule and
steps the Macanese and BDA can take for the Treasury to consider
lifting the rule," Treasury spokeswoman Molly Millerwise told
AFP.


The delegation could head to Beijing after the talks, although
that has not been decided, she said.


Hong Kong's US consulate said Glaser would brief the press in
Hong Kong about the discussions at 6.15 pm (1015 GMT) Saturday.
No more details about the trip were disclosed.


The visit comes after the Treasury barred US banks from any
dealings with BDA, a move that effectively cut off the family-
owned bank from the global financial system.


But it cleared the way to unfreeze North Korean funds in the bank
as part of an international deal to end Pyongyang's nuclear
programmes.


On Friday, BDA chairman Stanley Au denied knowing that customers
were engaged in money laundering and vowed to appeal the
decision.


Macau's Monetary Authority took control of BDA in late 2005,
after the United States declared it a "primary money laundering
concern," and froze about 25 million dollars in assets belonging
to North Korea.

