

The former head of Denmark's public radio and television
broadcaster says in a new book that the government pressured the
company over its critical coverage of the Iraq war.


Danish government officials threatened to privatise the Danmarks
Radio (DR) corporation and demanded more favorable coverage of
the war, Christian Nissen says in the book.


Denmark had been a loyal U.S. ally in Iraq. It announced last
month, however, that it would withdraw its 430 ground troops
stationed in Basra in August.


Extracts of the book were published in the Danish weekly
Weekendavisen on Friday.


Nissen says Culture Minister Brian Mikkelsen sent an email to
DR's chairman in 2003, after the start of the war, expressing the
"great dissatisfaction" of several ministers over what they saw
as overly critical coverage of the war.


"We reached the point where the minister of foreign affairs
thought we should privatise DR instead of TV2, which was fair in
its coverage," the minister wrote in an email. TV2 is a competing
channel.


Mikkelsen said Friday in an interview with TV2 that he "was only
referring to what he and other ministers thought" in the email.
He said they had a "natural right to free expression."


Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen said Friday that "the
government has not had, at any time, the intention to excercise
pressure or to threaten the free and indepedent media."


The centrist and left-wing opposition accused the government of
abusing its power. Socialist party head Villy Soevndal called it
a "double standard" and said the culture minister should resign.


"It is a scandal when a government, in a democratic state,
threatens the free press," he said.


In 2005, when violence and widespread protests erupted following
the publication of political cartoons featuring the prophet
Mohammed in a Danish newspaper, ambassadors from Muslim countries
asked Rasmussen to intervene.


At the time, he said he could not interfere in the workings of
the free press.

