

Military-run Myanmar has signed a contract with Russian and
Singaporean firms to jointly explore for inland oil and gas,
state media said Saturday.


Myanmar Oil and Gas Enterprise will join hands with Silver Wave
Sputnik Petroleum Pte Ltd. of Russia and Silver Wave Energy Pte
Ltd. of Singapore for the project in Ziphyutaung-Nandaw region in
the northwest of the country, said the New Light of Myanmar
newspaper.


It gave no further details including the value of the contract,
which followed another gas deal earlier in the month with
Rimbunan Petrogas, a firm registered in the British Virgin
Islands, and Singapore's UNOG.


Myanmar, one of the world's poorest nations, is under a series of
US and European economic sanctions imposed over the junta's human
rights abuses and the house arrest of 61-year-old democracy icon
Aung San Suu Kyi.


But the impact of the sanctions has been weakened as energy-
hungry neighbours such as China, India and Thailand are spending
billions of dollars for a share of Myanmar's vast energy
resources to solve their power problems.


Myanmar's military rulers have awarded a raft of contracts in the
last two months to explore for natural gas off its coast,
following major discoveries by South Korea's Daewoo of reserves
of up to 10 trillion cubic feet in the Gulf of Bengal.


According to 2006 official figures, 13 foreign oil companies are
working on 33 projects in Myanmar, which has been under military
rule since 1962.

