

Pakistan has suspended 14 police for ransacking a private
television station office during opposition protests over the
sacking of the country's top judge, officials said Saturday.


"The government has suspended 14 police officers for the incident
at the Geo office and has also ordered a judicial inquiry into
the incident," Islamabad police chief Iftikhar Ahmed Chaudhry
told AFP.


The action came after President Pervez Musharraf publicly
apologised for the raid on the Geo Television office in Islamabad
Friday by police.


The government also ordered a judicial inquiry into the assault
widely condemned at home and abroad.


Clashes between police and protestors erupted Friday as chief
justice Iftikhar Mohammad Chaudhry appeared before a judicial
inquiry into charges of misconduct brought against him by the
military ruler.


In Islamabad, police fought off demonstrators with rubber
bullets, teargas and batons while opposition leaders and lawyers
rallied outside the Supreme Court building raising anti-Musharraf
slogans.


According to police around 200 politicians, lawyers and activists
were detained mostly in the eastern city of Lahore and Islamabad
before and during protests but the leaders and lawyers among them
were released.


Among those released were the leader of Pakistan's main alliance
of Islamic parties, Qazi Hussain Ahmed, who was detained in
Islamabad and several members of the parliament, police said.


The lawyers have been holding daily demonstrations since
Musharraf suspended Chaudhry last week and sent a case against
him to the Supreme Judicial Council headed by Justice Javed Iqbal
whom he appointed as acting chief judge.

