

The French Holocaust survivor and former minister Simone Veil has
disowned a call by right-wing presidential frontrunner Nicolas
Sarkozy to create a ministry for immigration and national
identity.


"I didn't like the ambiguity of the formula at all. I would have
preferred to speak of a ministry for immigration and
integration," the 79-year-old, who rallied Sarkozy's campaign
last week, said in an interview to appear in the Marianne weekly.


The interior minister has faced a barrage of protest over the
comments, criticised as a ploy to appeal to the far-right.


Sarkozy's ruling Union for a Popular Movement (UMP) made much of
the announcement last week that Veil, a highly-respected former
centrist minister and European parliament president, had chosen
to back the right-winger rather than his centrist rival Francois
Bayrou in the presidential race.


In the interview Veil said she continued to support him: "Nicolas
Sarkozy, for me, is still best qualified to become president of
the republic, even if I don't always agree with some of his ideas
or attitudes."


Asked to comment on Veil's remarks, Sarkozy said that "everyone
has the right to their own opinion", pointing to a poll that said
two-thirds of the public approved of his comments on national
identity.


Immigration has become a sensitive issue in the campaign for the
election following rioting in 2005 in predominantly immigrant
suburbs across the country that highlighted France's strained
integration policies.


Sarkozy is credited with 29 percent in the first round vote on
April 22, ahead of the Socialist Segolene Royal with 23 percent
and Bayrou with 21 percent, according to a BVA poll released on
Friday.


The decisive second round between the two leading contenders is
on May 6.

