

The widow of murdered US journalist Daniel Pearl refused Friday
to be baited into loathing and fear by alleged terrorism
mastermind Khalid Sheikh, who claimed responsibility for her
husband's beheading.


"The only way to fight terrorism is to exercise self-control over
the natural feelings of disgust and horror that his declarations
provoke," Mariane Pearl said in a statement.


"I clearly see Khalid Sheikh Mohammed's motives when he proudly
volunteers a graphic description of the murder of my husband
Daniel Pearl," she said. "Because I understand his intentions I
can also deny their effect on me."


Mohammed, the self-confessed chief planner of the September 11
attacks, claimed to have been responsible for decapitating Pearl
following the Wall Street Journal reporter's kidnapping in
Pakistan in 2002.


The alleged Al-Qaeda kingpin made the claim during a closed
hearing at a military base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, the Pentagon
said Thursday.


"The more people like Khalid Sheikh Mohammed spread fear, the
more determined I am to resist by celebrating values of humanism
and dignity," Marianne Pearl said, adding it was unclear if he
was actually behind the killing.


"Khalid Sheikh Mohammed will not change my heart and he won't
change what Danny did or left behind, which is a beautiful and
inspiring example of what it means to be a man."


Pearl, 38, was the South Asia bureau chief for The Wall Street
Journal when he was abducted in Karachi on January 23, 2002 while
researching a story about Islamic militants.


His kidnapping triggered a massive manhunt across Pakistan, as
his French wife, Mariane, who was heavily pregnant with the
couple's first child, maintained an anxious vigil.

