

Criminal charges were filed against a collector who stole 165
Civil War documents from the National Archives and sold them on
eBay, US prosecutors said Friday.


Denning McTague was working as an unpaid intern in Philadelphia
when he purloined historic paperwork that included a War
Department letter informing troops of the assassination of
President Abraham Lincoln, according to US Attorney's Office
spokesman Richard Manieri.


"Evidently he put documents in a backpack and walked out,"
Manieri told AFP. The bulk of the stolen letters concerned
munitions and supplies, but one was written by Confederate
general James (Jeb) Stuart, Manieri said.


McTague operated a company that advertised itself as a "Purveyor
of: Rare and Unusual Books, Maps, Manuscripts, Interesting Paper
and Americana" and sold the documents on Internet auction website
eBay, according to prosecutors.


"These are pieces of American history to be preserved, not sold
to the highest bidder," said Eastern Pennsylvania District US
Attorney Pat Meehan.


As an Archives intern, McTague was entrusted to organizing
documents in preparation for a pending anniversary tribute to the
American Civil War, which ended in 1865.


"Any time someone violates the public trust, it is devastating to
the archives and the public," said Archives spokeswoman Susan
Cooper. "It's terribly disappointing."


Investigators recovered 161 of the stolen documents as of Friday
and had yet to determine how much money McTague got for his loot.


McTague, 40, remains free pending trial and could be sentenced to
as long as 18 months in prison if convicted as charged, according
to Manieri.

