

Portugal's Renova, one of Europe's biggest producers of household
paper products, has put a diamond-encrusted toilet paper holder
on sale for 100,000 euros (132,000 US dollars), the company said
Friday.


The one-of-a-kind gold-plated box was made entirely by hand by
traditional jewellers in Lisbon who encrusted its logo plate with
148 diamonds to mark the worldwide sale of one million rolls of
the firm's novelty black toilet paper.


The box weighs almost one kilogram (4.4 pounds) and it "gives
toilet paper a lofty status it never enjoyed before," the company
said in a statement.


Whoever buys the luxury toilet paper holder will receive one roll
of Renova's black toilet paper per day for their rest of their
lives.


"This is a commemorative item to mark a unique product," the
company's international brand manager, Jose Manuel Pinheiro, told
AFP on Friday.


The box went on display to the public under the watchful gaze of
a bodyguard last week during Lisbon Fashion Week when Portugal's
top designers showcase their latest collections.


Renova introduced its line of black toilet paper in upscale
stores across Europe in 2005 in what it said was a world first.
Demand far exceeded expectations, prompting the firm to launch
red toilet paper line a year later.


The company, based in Torres Novas located some 120 kilometres
(75 miles) northeast of Lisbon, has a history of introducing
novelty household products. Among the items it has made in the
past is toilet paper with moisturising lotion and multi-coloured
paper towels.


Renova posted sales of roughly 120 million euros in 2005, the
last year for which figures are available, roughly half of it
outside of Portugal.

