

Elderly Latvians who fought in a Waffen SS unit in World War II
were able Friday, for the first time in years, to remember fallen
comrades without fighting running battles with anti-fascist
protesters.


"A human fence of policemen was more effective in maintaining
order than the metal barricades we used last year," interior
ministry official Krists Leiskalns told AFP.


Around 200 people, including former soldiers from the
controversial World War II unit, marched to the towering Freedom
Monument in the centre of Riga to pay tribute to Latvia's
Legionnaires.


Although they were insulted by members of an anti-fascist group,
there were no running battles or mass arrests as in the past two
years.


Police did make two arrests, however: one for being drunk and
disorderly and the other for being just disorderly.


Last year, around 60 people were arrested for trying to stage
marches, which had been banned. In 2005, 35 people were detained
after skirmishes broke out between radical left- and right-wing
groups.


This year, several groups, most of them with no connection to the
Latvian Legion, staged marches and pickets in Riga under strict
police surveillance.


Legionnaires' Day arouses passions and anger in Latvia, which was
occupied by the Soviet Union at the end of World War II after the
Red Army had driven out the Nazis.


Moscow says the day of tribute is a glorification of fascism,
while war veterans insist they were not fighting in a Waffen SS
unit, but simply for the freedom of Latvia.


The Latvian parliament declared March 16 declared Legionnaires'
Day in 1998, to mark the day in 1944 when Legionnaires routed the
Soviet Red Army at the Velikaya River.


Two years later, parliament admitted it had made a mistake in
commemorating the defeat of the Russians and struck Legionnaires'
Day off the calendar, but scores of people still mark the day as
an unofficial holiday.

