

Togo requested financial assistance on Friday to help the country
organise legislative elections that are scheduled to be held
later this year.


Several Togo ministers met with diplomats from other countries to
discuss assistance for the upcoming elections.


"We truly need your help so that (the electoral commission) has
the means to operate and the security operation does not repeat
the past," Minister of Cooperation Gilbert Bawara told the
diplomats.


Togo has been marked in recent years by a series of violent
elections, including the 2005 vote for president following the
death of Gnassingbe Eyadema, who had held power for 38 years.


The army has often been accused of violent acts at election time.


No date has yet been announced for the legislative poll, but the
Independent National Electoral Commission operating under an
accord reached among political parties in August last year has
recommended June 24.


Legislative elections in 2002 were boycotted by most of the
opposition on the grounds they would be rigged, but all parties
are now actively preparing to contest the 81 seats that will be
up for grabs.


About 6,000 police will be deployed throughout the country during
the election, Bawara said. Election ID cards with digital photos
will also be used.


The European Union stopped all but minimum assistance to Togo in
1993 because of a drawn-out political crisis pitting Eyadema
against his foes and in a bid to pressure him into democracy.


The EU has demanded free and fair elections as a prerequisite to
normalising relations with Togo.


An EU exploratory mission to observe the election has been in
Lome for several days, a European Commission official said.

