

Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. plans to finance a Bulgarian
wind farm by using the resulting greenhouse gas emission rights
as collateral, the first such financing plan in the world, a
report said Saturday.


The Japan Bank for International Cooperation and Mizuho Corporate
Bank will extend a syndicated loan of 38 million euro (50 million
dollars), the Japanese business daily Nikkei reported, without
clarifying sources.


In the contract slated to be sealed Monday, future power sales
generated by the project will also be used as collateral, it
said.


The Kyoto Protocol, the first-ever international law on global
warming, requires industrialised nations to slash emissions of
greenhouse gas.


But nations can sell their excess credits to another country,
such as by setting up environmentally friendly technology.
Companies also can buy and sell emission credits.


A joint venture between Mitsubishi Heavy and a local construction
company will build an offshore wind farm in the Black Sea, using
35 of the Japanese firm's 1,000 kilowatt turbines, the report
said.


The project will reduce CO2 emissions by about 80,000 tons a year
as a result of the switch from existing conventional thermal
power plants to the new wind farm, earning emission credits, it
said.


The emission credits will be sold to the operator of the Japan
GHG Reduction Fund, a consortium of 33 Japanese firms that
includes trading giant Mitsubishi Corp..


The plant, slated to start operation next year, will sell
electricity to Bulgaria's state-owned power utility, it said.


Officials of Mitsubishi Heavy was not immediately reached for a
comment.

