

A leading Australian coach said he suspects China is secretly
grooming a group of swimmers that it will unleash at the Beijing
Olympics to devastating effect.


Ken Wood predicted China would not show its hand at the World
Swimming Championships this month and instead would wait until
the Olympics on home soil next year.


He stopped short of suggesting the Chinese were evading drug
testers but told the Melbourne Age newspaper that he was
convinced some of the communist country's top swimmers were being
kept under wraps.


"When they identified those 100 swimmers 18 months ago, 50 of
them have disappeared, you don't know what they are going to do,"
Wood, coach of 100m butterfly world champion Jessicah Schipper,
was quoted as saying Saturday.


"I don't think they really want their really top swimmers to rank
up in the top 50. They probably are already but no one knows.


"That's my opinion, I don't want to get into too much of a
controversy about the Chinese but I wouldn't think they would
show their full hand down here.


"I think Beijing's going to be the one and I just think they're
keeping them away and training them in the different area and
competing among themselves, for whatever reason.


"But I think you know Beijing is an exercise to show the rest of
the world they can do it better than we (Sydney) did in 2000 and
better than anyone else has done it in the past.


"They want to put a good show on and for their athletes across
the board that will be the peak one for them."


China was tainted by doping scandals in the 1990s and since then
has repeatedly failed to present its strongest teams at world
meetings outside of the Olympics.


It has sent 45 swimmers to these world titles, including female
breaststroker Qi Hui, ranked two in the world, and male
butterflier Wu Peng, also ranked two.

