

Rookie driver Lewis Hamilton boosted McLaren's hopes of trumping
title rivals Ferrari in Sunday's Australian Grand Prix with a
rousing fourth-best time in qualifying here Saturday.


The 22-year-old Briton came in behind Ferrari's Kimi Raikkonen,
McLaren teammate Fernando Alonso and Sauber's Nick Heidfeld, but
significantly he gives his team a two-prong challenge in the
season-opening race.


The gloss was slightly taken off Raikkonen's pole-winning drive
when Ferrari teammate Felipe Massa encountered gearbox problems
in qualifying and will be forced to start from well back in the
field on the eighth row.


Although Raikkonen has the superior early-season edge in speed,
McLaren can come away with more points from the Australian race
with Alonso and Hamilton challenging for the podium.


"I'm overwhelmed to be on the second row for my first Grand
Prix," Hamilton said.


"This weekend is what I have been preparing myself for during the
past 13 years and I'm enjoying every moment.


"I think we are in with a good chance in the race. Basically, I
want to get a good start and then work hard to score as many
points for the team and myself."


Alonso, who quit world champion team Renault to join McLaren this
season, acknowledges Ferrari have an advantage, but he is
confident of doing well in the 58-lap street race.


"There is still a slight gap to Ferrari but the improvements that
have been made since the last Bahrain test are fantastic," Alonso
said.


"The car feels good and I'm also pleased that Lewis is right up
there with me which puts us both in the best position to score
points for ourselves and the team."


McLaren team boss Ron Dennis, looking for his team's first
constructors' title since 1998, said Alonso "clearly is an
invaluable asset to the team" and there was only praise for
Hamilton's efforts so far in his first Grand Prix weekend.

