

Wikipedia called actor-comedian Sinbad on Friday to apologize
after a prankster declared the performer dead in the communally
crafted online encyclopedia.


Sinbad, whose birth name is David Adkins, received a flood of
concerned messages from friends and family members after someone
edited Wikipedia information about him to falsely read that he
had died of a heart attack.


"The only thing I can assume is that it was a prank," Wikipedia
spokeswoman Sandra Ordonez told AFP. "Why they targeted Sinbad, I
couldn't begin to guess."


Los Angeles-based stand-up comedian turned actor Sinbad has
appeared in television shows and his film credits include co-
starring with Arnold Schwarzenegger in "Jingle All the Way"
released in 1996.


A notice on Sinbad's Wikipedia page on Friday indicated it was
temporarily blocked from editing "to deal with vandalism."


Wikipedia was built to allow entries to be modified by any
members of the Internet community. However, Florida-based
Wikipedia blocks edits to vandalism- prone entries such as that
of Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates.


Histories of Wikipedia edits are maintained openly on the pages
and those that make changes are tracked by computer IP addresses
or user names.


The person that tampered with Sinbad's page was identified by
computer IP address and banned from further Wikipedia edits,
Ordonez said.


The erroneous edit made Wednesday was quickly corrected and the
history page later deleted because the prankster was evidently
emailing people links to it, according to Ordonez.


Wikipedia is built on the premise that mistaken or malicious
edits on pages will be swiftly corrected by those that are better
informed and intentioned.


The online compendium of knowledge has been criticized for not
having qualified researchers or experts check entries.

