

US President George W. Bush on Saturday threatened to veto
emergency money for Iraq and Afghanistan if it includes measures
aimed at forcing a US withdrawal or unrelated domestic spending.


"Congress needs to approve emergency funding for our troops,
without strings and without delay. If they send me a bill that
does otherwise, I will veto it," Bush said in his weekly radio
address.


At issue is next week's debate in the House of Representatives
over a 124 -billion-dollar spending measure that includes a
Democratic measure aimed at forcing a US withdrawal from Iraq by
September 2008.


The US president warned that such an outcome would be
"disastrous" and "a nightmare for our country" and said it "would
undermine" the ongoing effort to quell sectarian violence in
Baghdad.


Bush said the hotly contested bill would give lawmakers who say
they support US troops in Iraq "a chance to show that support in
deed, as well as in word" as he railed against domestic spending
provisions tacked on to the war funding.


"For example, the House bill would provide 74 million dollars for
peanut storage, 48 million dollars for the Farm Service Agency,
and 35 million dollars for NASA. These programs do not belong in
an emergency war spending bill," he said.


"Congress must not allow debate on domestic spending to delay
funds for our troops on the front lines. And members should not
use funding our troops as leverage to pass special interest
spending for their districts," warned Bush.

