

Malaysia's budget carrier AirAsia has signed a 10 million ringgit
(2.8 million dollar) sponsorship deal with Toyota for the 2007
Formula One season, a report said Saturday.


The New Straits Times newspaper said that the Southeast Asia's
pioneering low- cost carrier completed the deal with the giant
Japanese constructor in Britain just before Sunday's season-
opening Australian Grand Prix.


AirAsia officials could not be reached for comment.


The AirAsia's Formula One partnership comes after the carrier
entered into a sponsorship deal with Manchester United in 2005 to
attract global business.


Citing an industry source, the newspaper said the Formula One
partnership would cost about 10 million ringgit a year and was
for at least three years.


"Taking a cue from their English Premier League tie-up, this
AirAsia partnership with Toyota will once again earn them a
global visibility," it said.


The bright red AirAsia logo was fixed on the nose of Toyota's two
race cars and just above the drivers helmet visor during the
practice session at Melbourne's Albert Park, the newspaper said.


In January Toyota unveiled the car they believe can finally bring
them a coveted first grand prix win after five barren years in
Formula One.


Toyota are pinning their faith on the all new TF107 and their
team of drivers Jarno Trulli and Ralf Schumacher and new test
driver Franck Montagny.


AirAsia recently said its net profit for the six months to
December soared to 227 million ringgit (64.7 million dollars)
from 59.9 million ringgit.


AirAsia was launched as a budget carrier in 2001 with just two
aircraft. It now offers more than 100 domestic and international
flights to Cambodia, China, Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines,
Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam.

