

Thailand is considering widening a curfew in the country's
restive Muslim- majority south in the wake of the massacre of
nine Buddhists by suspected Islamic rebels, an army spokesman
said Saturday.


The military has imposed a curfew in the districts of Yaha and
Banang Sata in Yala province, which has suffered the brunt of
recent attacks, including the grisly daylight killings of the
Buddhists and bombings on Wednesday.


Army spokesman Colonel Acar Tiproch said the military was ready
to expand the curfew in the southern region rocked by the three-
year separatist insurgency, which has killed some 2,000 people.


"As of now, the army has imposed a curfew in only two districts
of Yaha and Bannang Sata, but if the unrest intensifies, we may
impose more curfews," Acar told AFP.


Thai authorities have arrested six Muslim suspects in connection
with the Buddhist massacre, which shocked the nation and
highlighted the escalating violence in the restive region
bordering Malaysia.


The nine Buddhists, including two teenage girls, were shot in the
head at point- blank range after Islamic separatists forced their
minibus off the road on Wednesday.


To increase security, the military would deploy some 1,600 army
rangers to the south of the country by the end of March,
Thailand's army-installed Prime Minister Surayud Chulanont, a
former general, said this week.


Despite Surayud's peace-building measures, violence has escalated
in recent months with militants beheading some of their victims.


Southern Thailand was an autonomous Malay sultanate until it was
annexed by mainly Buddhist Thailand a century ago, promoting
decades of separatist unrest.

