

Child trafficking between Niger and neighboring Libya appears to
have increased in recent years, with a growing number of networks
dismantled in 2006, according to non-government agencies.


Police intercepted about 50 children at the Libyan border between
June and December of last year, said Moutari Maman of the group
Action in Favor of the Elimination of Child Labor in Niger
(AFETEN).


The children are usually between 12 and 15 years old, and are
often orphans or from poor families, according to Niger's
ministry for child protection. They are often employed in Libya
as domestic servants.


Timidria, a local NGO, says a trafficker was arrested at the end
of last year in Dirkou in the north of Niger as he prepared to
send 24 girls into Libya in small groups.


"Before, we would let pass any minor accompanied by an adult,"
said police officer Hamidou Maidagi. "But now, we are vigilant."


Because of increased border patrols, traffickers are opting for
desert routes, and police have few means of tracking them,
Maidagi said.


A special team of 300 police officers has been formed, as well as
a collection of about 20 volunteers, to keep watch over bus
stations and other areas.


AFETEN has also created a center where children intercepted by
police can be taken.


Niger is one of the world's poorest nations, and was hit hard by
famine in 2005.


"Since the 2005 drought decimated herds, some parents have
thought it's a good idea to hand over their children to
'friends,' who are in reality only child traffickers," said
Maidagi.


Adding to the problem, Niger human rights organizations say there
is no law in place to adequately punish traffickers.


"Without a specific law, all traffickers arrested in 2006 have
been released after a few weeks in prison," said Maman.

