

British No 1 Andy Murray defeated Germany's Tommy Haas 3-6, 6-3,
7-6 (10/8) in the quarter-finals of the ATP/WTA Pacific Life Open
on Friday.


The 19-year-old Murray moves to the semi-finals of the 5.3
million dollar hardcourt tournament in the California desert
where he will play Serbia's Novak Djokovic, who beat David Ferrer
of Spain 6-3, 6-4.


It was a gritty performance by Murray, who had to overcome a
first set loss then a nasty fall early in the second set which
resulted in one of two visits by the trainer for treatment.


Murray also fought off two match points in the tie break then
clinched the match on his second match point when Haas pushed a
backhand long.


The match was played in front of an announced crowd of 15,418 at
the main Indian Wells Tennis Garden stadium.


Murray had seven aces, 26 winners and 37 unforced errors to Haas'
seven aces, 36 winners and 58 unforced errors.


Murray started slow in dropping the first set then found his
serve in the second and forced Haas into making mistakes on his
groundstroke in the third.


There was a strange twist early in the second which resulted in a
nine-minute delay after Murray tumbled hard on to the court.


Murray was running for a forehand shot when he stepped awkwardly,
flew through the air before landing on left side. He immediately
grabbed his left foot.


He lay face down on the ground in pain until Haas reached him.
Haas helped him sit up before the medical trainer arrived. The
trainer then treated Murray for a twisted ankle and a bloody
knee.


Murray also received treatment for blisters at the end of the
first set.


But rather than fade, Murray stepped up his game after the
injury.


Murray won first career title in San Jose last year and then
defended it earlier this year.

