

Ronald Murray scored 25 points and Rasheed Wallace added 20 on
Friday as Detroit routed the surging Phoenix Suns 105-83 to
stretch their National Basketball Association winning streak to
five games.


Chris Webber had 17 points and nine rebounds for the Pistons, who
improved to 42-22 and are now 2 1/2 games ahead of Cleveland for
first place in the Central Division and the top spot in the
Eastern Conference.


Playing in one of the weakest conferences of all-time, the
Eastern squads have struggled to stay above .500 this season,
while their Western counterparts continue to thrive.


But the Pistons have proved that the NBA Finals are not a
foregone


conclusion.


Detroit is the only team in the Eastern Conference with a winning
road record at 23-10 and the Pistons continued their stellar play
away from home by sweeping all five games on a tough Western road
trip.


Murray, a reserve guard, shot 12-of-16 from the field, including
1-of-3 on 3-pointers. Wallace was 8-of-17 and 4-of-6 and drew his
17th technical foul of the season in the fourth quarter after
nailing his final shot from 3-point range.


Already over the league's technical foul limit, the star forward
will receive his second one-game suspension of the campaign.


Detroit controlled the pace for most of the game and led, 75-64,
after three quarters. The Pistons then put the game away in the
final period, outscoring the Suns 30-19 over the final 12 minutes
to secure the victory.


Amare Stoudemire continued his strong play, collecting 24 points
and 15 rebounds for the Suns, who are now 3 1/2 games behind
Dallas for first place in the Western Conference and the NBA's
best record.


The Mavericks defeated lowly Boston 106-101 on Friday.

