

Former Bangladesh premier Khaleda Zia faced increasing isolation
Saturday as she prepared for exile amid a battle to succeed her
as head of the Bangladesh Nationalist Party, a report said.


Party sources told the leading independent Daily Star newspaper
several senior BNP members were planning to make a grab for the
leadership if Zia was forced into exile.


At least three groups of BNP leaders had held secret meetings to
review the crisis, the paper added.


Zia was said to be angry at the apparent disloyalty of some
senior BNP figures.


"The party chief (Zia) is highly annoyed with the senior leaders
for not taking any move at the time of her distress, particularly
when the authorities are forcing her to go into exile," the
report added, quoting an unnamed top-ranking BNP leader as
saying.


Zia, whose five-year term as prime minister ended last October,
is being pushed into exile in Saudi Arabia by the emergency-ruled
country's new government.


The government has also barred Sheikh Hasina Wajed, leader of the
other main political party, the Awami League, from returning to
the country as part of its campaign to clean up Bangladesh
politics before holding rescheduled elections by the end of 2008.


Both leaders stand accused of misrule that led to a political
crisis earlier this year.


The crisis followed a political impasse reached in January, amid
spiralling violence, in which the Awami League accused the BNP of
seeking to rig elections planned for later that month.


President Iajuddin Ahmed, head of an interim government tasked
with holding fair elections, resigned on January 11, imposed
emergency rule, and cancelled the polls.


A new military-backed interim government was installed the
following day and has won popular support for its anti-graft
drive and efforts to exile the two party leaders.

