

Ricky Ponting has warned South Africa that they are facing
mission impossible if they think they can beat his Australian
world champions in the World Cup semi- finals.


Australia, going for a third successive World Cup title, looked
in ominous form when they demolished New Zealand by 215 runs in
their last Super Eights game here on Friday after bowling the
Black Caps out for 133.


Australia will face Graeme Smith's Proteas in the second semi-
final in St Lucia on Wednesday buoyed by clinching their ninth
win in nine matches in the Caribbean as well as having defeated
South Africa by 83 runs in the first round.


"We are very confident and we will take a lot of beating in that
semi-final," said Australia skipper Ponting whose team piled up
348-6 from their 50 overs.


"We are demonstrating that we are very dominant. We are batting
well with some great partnerships and are right on track at the
moment. We're going great."


Ponting reserved special praise for Matthew Hayden, who hit his
third century of the tournament, and all-rounder Shane Watson who
returned from a three-match absence with an unbeaten 65 as well
as a wicket.


"Shane was tremendous and looked good and Matty is in the form of
his one-day career. It's great to have him back in the side, he's
dragging a few of us along with him and he's churning out the
runs. I hope he can keep it going."


Hayden now has 580 runs in the tournament at an average of 82.85.


However, Hayden, who was out of the team last year before
fighting his way back into contention, refused to get carried
away by his success despite becoming only the third man to make
three centuries at a World Cup.


"We have two more matches to go and it all will mean zero if we
don't go all the way," said the left-hander.


"I have put in a lot of work to get back in the side. You need a
lot of dedication to be part of this team. I'm very proud of what
I've achieved."

