

South and North Korea were Saturday still haggling over food aid
and nuclear disarmament as they entered the last day of talks on
economic cooperation, according to pool media reports.


The two sides were originally scheduled to wrap up the four days
of talks in Pyongyang with a joint statement at 2:00 pm (0500
GMT) but they have not yet reached an agreement.


The impoverished North requested the South to send 400,000 tonnes
of rice, saying political issues should not be raised at the
economic talks.


But Seoul apparently linked the food aid to progress on
denuclearisation, urging the North to start moves toward
dismantling its nuclear weapons programmes.


"The North delivered a draft agreement on the rice loan to us. It
was different from the original one, so we are still discussing
it," a South Koraen official was quoted as saying.


Seoul suspended its massive shipment of rice after the North's
missile tests last July. Ties soured further after Pyongyang's
October nuclear test but improved when the North returned to six-
nation nuclear disarmament talks.


The North missed a April 14 deadline under a February six-nation
nuclear disarmament deal to shut down and seal its Yongbyon
reactor, which produces the raw material for plutonium to make
bombs.


North Korea said Friday it was still working to solve a banking
dispute which is blocking progress on its nuclear disarmament.


Analysts said the delay indicated the complexity of the dispute
over the 25 million dollars in Banco Delta Asia (BDA) even after
the North's accounts in the Macau bank were officially unfrozen.


The US Treasury blacklisted BDA in September 2005, alleging that
some of the North Korean accounts there contained the proceeds of
money laundering and counterfeiting.


In an effort to make progress on the nuclear issue, Washington
announced last week the money was available for collection or
transfer. But foreign banks are reluctant to accept the
transferred cash for fear of being tainted by suspect money.

