

Italian Prime Minister Romano Prodi wants a regional peace
conference on Afghanistan to be held before the end of the year,
the London-based Asharq Alawsat reported Saturday.


"The Taliban have gone on the offensive again but this should not
make us drop our efforts," Prodi told the Arabic-language
newspaper, saying he hoped a regional conference "to relaunch
stabilisation efforts" could be held in the second half of 2007.


Prodi was to leave later Saturday for a two-day visit to Saudi
Arabia.


Asked how long Italy's peacekeeping troops would stay on in
Afghanistan, the prime minister said it would "depend on the
political and security situation."


The 2,000-strong contingent in the NATO-led International
Security Assistance Force (ISAF) is fiercely opposed by Prodi's
far-left allies.


A conference on the rule of law in Afghanistan, to be held in
Rome on July 3-4, will place "the necessary accent on civilian
aspects (of the conflict), on the justice system and the fight
against drug trafficking to create better chances of success for
pacification efforts," Prodi said.


In the interview, the Italian leader again rejected criticism
over the handling of last month's hostage crisis in Afghanistan,
when Italian journalist Daniele Mastrogiacomo was freed after two
weeks in captivity in exchange for the release of five Taliban
militants.


"No one can make me regret having saved the life of Daniele
Mastrogiacomo, and unfortunately also, no one can console me over
having failed to save the lives of his driver and interpreter,"
he said.

