

EU Commission head Jose Manuel Barroso spoke by telephone to
Romania's feuding president and prime minister on Friday, urging
a democratic and constitutional solution to the country's
political crisis.


President Traian Basescu said in Bucharest earlier in the day
that he would not resign from office following a vote in
parliament to suspend him.


Barroso received calls from "the suspended president" and his
arch-rival Prime Minister Tariceanu, both of whom wanted to
inform him of the current situation, the Commission said in a
statement.


"President Barroso thanked them both for making contact and
expressed his wish that the crisis be solved by the Romanian
institutions in full respect of the democratic and constitutional
principles as soon as possible," according to the statement.


"Romania knows that it must go on with the reforms needed, namely
the judicial reform and fight against corruption that were a
commitment of Romania when it joined the European Union," said
Barroso.


The former Soviet bloc state's political crisis comes just four
months after it joined the European club.


EU Justice Commissioner Franco Frattini earlier reminded
Bucharest that in June the European Commission will report on
Romania's progress since joining the bloc on January 1.


Basescu, 55, was accused in the impeachment notice of 19
constitutional violations, including "controlling through those
close to him all state institutions, of interfering in the law
and protecting the interests of the mafia in the Romanian
economy."


A national referendum on the impeachment verdict is expected to
occur in mid- May.

