

A US Congress leader called Friday for the resignation of
embattled Attorney General Alberto Gonzales, questioning his
candor over the controversial dismissal of eight top prosecutors.


House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi urged Gonzales to
step down one day after President George W. Bush's longtime aide
was grilled by a key Senate panel over his role in the firing of
the US attorneys.


"By his actions and with his testimony yesterday, Attorney
General Alberto Gonzales has lost the trust of the American
people," Pelosi said.


"The nation cannot have a chief law enforcement officer whose
candor and judgment are in serious question," the Democratic
leader said in a statement.


"The president should restore credibility to the office of the
attorney general. Alberto Gonzales must resign," the California
lawmaker said.


Pelosi had called for his resignation in March, when documents
and witnesses emerged that indicated that the firings of eight
federal prosecutors last year had been politically motivated.


But her latest demand followed a day after Gonzales testified in
a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing to defend his actions as the
country's top law enforcement official and fend off calls for his
resignation.


In his highly anticipated testimony Thursday, Gonzales tried to
explain that the decision to fire the prosecutors had not been
tainted by an abuse of power, and that he had been scarcely
involved in the process.


Senator Tom Coburn, an influential Republican, joined calls for
Gonzales to step down, telling the attorney general at the
hearing that "the best way to put this behind us is your
resignation."


The White House, however, issued a statement after the hearing
saying that Bush was "pleased" with his longtime aide's
performance before the committee.


Bush has "full confidence" in Gonzales, who "again showed that
nothing improper occurred," Bush spokeswoman Dana Perino said.

