

The UN Security Council is likely to endorse next week a call for
direct talks between Morocco and the separatist Polisario Front
on their rival plans for the disputed Western Sahara, diplomats
said Friday.


In a report released this week, United Nations chief Ban Ki-moon
said the 15-member Council should call on the parties to
negotiate without preconditions "with a view to achieving a just,
lasting and mutually acceptable political solution that will
provide for the self-determination of the people of Western
Sahara."


After council consultations on the issue Friday, South Africa's
UN Ambassador Dumisani Kumalo told reporters that the call for
unconditional talks between the parties "was supported
overwhelmingly."


His British colleague Emyr Jones Parry, who chairs the Council
this month, said the 15-member body would also endorse Ban's call
for a six-month extension of the mandate of the UN Mission for
the Referendum in Western Sahara (MINURSO), which expires April
30.


"I would expect a vote (on a US draft on the issue) within the
next seven, eight days," Jones Parry said.


He expressed the hope that the renewal of MINURSO would "help a
process of negotiations between the parties directly so that
would lead to a process of self-determination."


Last week, Morocco proposed an autonomy referendum in Western
Sahara that envisages giving Sahrawis "control over their affairs
through legislative, executive and judicial institutions" under
Moroccan sovereignty and calls for "negotiations for a political
solution acceptable to all parties."


But the Algerian-backed Polisario Front fighting Rabat's rule in
the territory submitted a rival plan that rejected the Moroccan
proposal and upheld "the right of the (local) people for self-
determination."


Stressing that the autonomy proposed by Rabat "is not self-
determination," Kumalo ruled out a solution imposed by the
Council.


And he made clear that Pretoria would oppose any attempt by some
Council members to give precedence to the Moroccan proposal.


"Both plans should be treated equally and used by the parties to
find a way out of this," he noted. "The solution lies with both
of parties."

