

Rogue Mohawks parked an old school bus on railway tracks in
eastern Canada Friday blocking passenger and cargo traffic along
a main rail corridor to protest a lack of progress on their land
claims.


The protest, not sanctioned by the Mohawk council, has so far
prevented 25 freight trains and 22 passenger trains from reaching
Montreal, Toronto and Ottawa, Canadian National Railway spokesman
Mark Hallman told AFP.


About 102 million Canadian dollars (91 million US) worth of
commodities are shipped along the track on a daily basis, but
Hallman would not say how much the blockade has cost CN.


"The company has obtained an injunction to dismantle the
protest," he said. But the indigenous people have ignored it and
refused to leave for the next 48 hours to make a point.


The group is protesting a developer's plan to build condominiums
using material from a quarry on land they claim is theirs near
Deseronto, on the shores of Lake Ontario, 200 kilometers (125
miles) east of Toronto.


They had set up barricades at the quarry a month ago, but moved
overnight to the tracks near Kingston, Ontario, lamenting the
slow pace of negotiations between Mohawk leaders and the federal
government, started in November.


"It's very difficult to carry out meaningful negotiations at the
table while they're taking out 10,000 truckloads a year of our
land," protest leader Shawn Brant told public broadcaster CBC.


"We shut (the rail lines) down as part of the ongoing rotational
economic disruption campaign we promised," he said.


Ontario Provincial Police Constable Jackie Perry told CBC: "We
are in discussions right now (with CN police) trying to determine
the most peaceful resolution."


"We don't want to see anyone hurt," she said.

