

Japanese human rights activists on Saturday urged Tokyo to freeze
development aid to the Philippines over a continuing spate of
unsolved political killings.


Human Rights Now (HRN) investigated some 15 killings and
interviewed five torture victims from April 14 to 21 and
concluded that Filipino security forces were involved in most of
them.


"In certain cases we have investigated, we are convinced that the
military is involved," it said.


HRN called on Tokyo, the Philippines' top aid donor, to suspend a
major loan package to the Philippines announced by Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe during a visit to Manila in December.


No amount was announced, but officials had said it would involve
funds for energy cooperation as well as development aid to
Mindanao, the country's main southern island, which is plagued by
insurgency.


Japan contributed 9.4 billion dollars over the past 23 years, or
51 percent of all foreign loans and grants to Manila in the
period, officials said.


Last year, it sent a representative to join a peace mission
monitoring a ceasefire pact between the government and Muslim
separatist rebels.


The HRN said it was gravely concerned that no military or police
official implicated in the killings had been prosecuted.


"We emphasize the gravity of this human rights violation. In the
cases we investigated, the victims included highly respected
lawyers, human rights activists, union leaders, church workers,
village captains and leftist activists," it said, adding that the
murders had had a "chilling effect" on society.


The Japanese team's report came two months after a UN special
rapporteur also blamed the military for the killings, and said
they remained in "almost total denial."


Local rights groups say over 800 people have been murdered for
political reasons since President Gloria Arroyo took office in
2001. They say the killings were state sanctioned to quash
popular dissent, a claim that has been officially denied.

