

Police investigating the disappearance of three sailors from a
yacht found drifting off the Australian coast with engines
running and a table laid for a meal ruled out foul play Saturday.


Police admitted they were still baffled about the fate of the
crew of the 12-metre (40-foot) catamaran "KAZ II", which was
spotted Thursday adrift 80 nautical miles off Townsville, on
Australia's northeast coast.


Rescue crews who initially reached the vessel said it had engines
running, computers switched on and food and utensils out ready
for a meal but there was no sign of the sailors, a 56-year-old
man and two brothers aged 63 and 69.


Police towed "Kaz II" to Townsville Saturday, where forensic
experts combed it for clues and examined information from its
global positioning system (GPS) navigational instruments.


Police chief superintendent Roy Wall said initial examination of
the GPS data indicated the boat remained on course until last
Sunday, when it headed into an area where there were rough seas
and squalls.


"Following this the vessel seems to have travelled a course in
accordance with tidal and wind influences," he told reporters.


"This indicates to us that the men may have been missing from the
boat sometime Sunday."


Wall said it did not appear the catamaran had been equipped with
a life raft and its dinghy remained attached.


He said rescuers had narrowed their search area to the waters
where the boat was sailing last Sunday.


Wall said circumstances surrounding the sailors' disappearance
was still being investigated with "a number of possible theories"
under examination.


"However the early indications are that their disappearance does
not appear to be suspicious," he said.


Media in Australia have likened the puzzling case to the "Mary
Celeste," the ghost ship found drifting in the Atlantic in 1872
with no sign of the 10 passengers and crew in one of maritime
history's most enduring mysteries.

