

Police evacuated and surrounded a building at NASA's Johnson
Space Center Friday where a gunman was reportedly barricaded on
the second floor.


A Houston police spokesman reached by AFP said they had not
received any reports of injuries but could not confirm if there
were any injured people or hostages still inside the building.


"The only thing we've been told is there's an individual inside
the building armed with a weapon," said John Cannon.


A SWAT team is currently surrounding the building but there was
no indication as to when they, or a negotiator, would enter the
building.


"There are a number of tactics they are using. It's not like
they're going to be in a rush to go in."


CNN reported that a gun-wielding NASA contractor walked into a
conference room in the communications and engineering building
and told everyone to leave at around 1:40 p.m. (18:40 GMT).


He was described as a blond man in his 50s and was said to have
fired at least two shots before the building was evacuated.


Two employees were unaccounted for a couple hours after the
incident but there was no indication as to whether they were
still inside, the network reported.


NASA officials could offer few details, but said the situation
was contained to the single building on the sprawling campus.
Johnson Space Center is home to the mission control center for
space shuttle missions.


"We did send out a notice to all employeeps a short time ago that
they are certainly free to leave, it's near the end of the work
day here," NASA spokesman James Hartsfield told CNN.


"They can leave as they would normally as their work wraps up,
and we just sent advisories to them on what gates they might want
to leave, so they can avoid areas that are blocked off by police
at present

