

New Zealand lock Chris Jack, 28, has signed to play for English
club side Saracens, joining an exodus of All Blacks following
this year's rugby World Cup.


The 2.02-metre, 115-kilogram Jack told a media conference it had
been a difficult decision to quit New Zealand rugby but he had
decided to put his wife and family first.


Jack has been with top Super 14 side Canterbury Crusaders since
1999, playing 87 matches for the defending champions.


Crusaders' coach Robbie Deans said Jack's departure would be a
huge loss for the Crusaders and New Zealand rugby, but no-one
would begrudge him and wife Kym an opportunity to see the world.


During his time with the Crusaders Jack shared in five Super
rugby titles and two other finals.


He also won the national domestic championship with Canterbury in
2001 and 2004.


He made the All Blacks in 2001, was player of the year in 2002
and is the fourth most-capped lock forward in All Black history,
with 57 caps.


Jack damaged a hamstring last month playing against the NSW
Waratahs but is expected to return to the Crusaders lineup before
the end of the Super 14 season.


His departure adds to a growing list of All Blacks heading
overseas following the World Cup.


Prop Carl Hayman has announced he will play for English club
Newcastle, halfback Byron Kelleher is heading to French side
Agen, while Aaron Mauger, Luke McAlister, Anton Oliver and Rico
Gear have also been linked with northern hemisphere clubs.


The New Zealand Rugby Union (NZRU) admitted earlier this week
that it was getting tougher to hold off European raids on its All
Blacks roster.


"The incredible amounts of money on offer in the UK and France
are making it increasingly difficult for the NZRU to compete on
straight dollar terms, despite tremendous commercial support from
our partners," deputy chief executive Steve Tew said in a
statement.

