

An Indian teacher has sprinkled cow urine on a school and its
pupils in an effort to "purify" his workplace after taking over
from a lower-caste principal, reports said Saturday.


Millions of people in India are discriminated against on the
basis of their caste, and the reports added that local police
have registered against the high- caste head teacher.


Sharad Kaithade took over the village school in the western state
of Maharashtra earlier this month, and asked an fellow upper-
caste colleague to spray cow urine on school children as they
were taking exams, wetting their faces and their answer sheets,
the Times of India said.


The female colleague also ordered some lower-caste students in
one of the classes to get some urine and sprinkle it on
themselves.


The cow is held sacred by India's Hindu majority population and
its urine is considered to have purifying powers.


The teacher said the sprinkling "was for our well-being," Sonali
Meshram, a student, also told the CNN-IBN news channel.


Another lower-caste student Rajat Washnik said the woman teacher
said they would "study well after getting purified."


People viewed as being lower caste make up around two-thirds of
India's one- billion-plus population.


Prime Minister Manmohan Singh noted last year that social
discrimination was rampant in India even decades after
independence from British rule in 1947.


Last year, India set aside 22.5 percent of university and medical
college seats for the lower castes in addition to the existing 27
percent, a move that riled many upper-caste students leading to
weeks of protests across the country.


Last month however India's Supreme Court ordered a stay on the
government's affirmative action plan.

