

The family of the US campus shooter said Friday they were "deeply
sorry" for the massacre and that they never could have imagined
that the South Korean student "was capable of so much violence."


In a statement, Cho Seung-Hui's sister, Cho Sun-Kyung, said the
family felt "hopeless, helpless and lost," in their first comment
since her 23-year-old brother killed 32 people and himself at
Virginia Tech University Monday.


"On behalf of our family, we are so deeply sorry for the
devastation my brother has caused," said Cho Sun-Kyung, who works
as a contractor at the US State Department.


Listing the names of those killed, she said, "we pray for their
families and loved ones who are experiencing so much excruciating
grief."


"And we pray for those who were injured and for those whose lives
are changed forever because of what they witnessed and
experienced," she said.


"Each of these people had so much love, talent and gifts to
offer, and their lives were cut short by a horrible and senseless
act."


The statement was released by a lawyer representing the family,
which US media has reported is under police protection.


"We have always been a close, peaceful and loving family. My
brother was quiet and reserved, yet struggled to fit in. We never
could have envisioned that he was capable of so much violence,"
she said.


On Monday, Cho Seung-Hui killed two people in a dormitory and,
more than two hours later, stormed another buildling and shot
into classrooms before turning his gun on himself, leaving 33
dead.


Cho Sun-Kyung said her family would cooperate with law
enforcement, "to help authorities understand why these senseless
acts happened. We have many unanswered questions as well."

