

Police laid siege to a communications building at NASA's Johnson
Space Center in Texas Friday after a gunman fired two shots and
barricade himself inside a room, officials said.


There was no word on whether anyone had been shot or if the man
had taken any hostages. NASA officials were unable to confirm
whether all of their employees had made it out of the Houston
building safely.


"We do not know if there is another person inside with this
suspect," Houston police captain Dwayne Ready said at a press
conference.


"We have not established communication. And if he's alive or
dead, I simply don't know."


A NASA employee told police he heard two shots fired and saw a
man wielding a handgun in building 44 at around 1:40 p.m. (18:40
GMT), Ready said.


Police do not know whether anyone was hit by the gunfire or if it
was merely directed at the floor or ceiling.


Nobody has reported seeing any victims inside the building and
paramedics have not treated anyone who fled the building after
the shooting began.


Ready was unable to confirm reports that the gunman was a NASA
contractor who walked into a conference room and told everyone to
leave.


NASA officials said mission operations were not interrupted by
the incident. An e-mail was immediately sent out to all employees
telling them to shelter in place.


Once officials realized the situation had been contained to the
one building, a second e-mail was sent out telling employees they
could go home whenever they wished.


"We have a standard set of security rules that do include random
vehicle searches," NASA spokeswoman Eileen Hawley said at the
press conference.


"Certainly, I would believe that our security and our senior
leadership is going to take a very close look at this incident,
and see if there was anything that we should have done or could
have done differently."


The sprawling Johnson Space Center campus is home to the mission
control center for space shuttle missions.

