

Heavily-armed troops fanned out on Saturday morning across the
streets of Yenagoa, capital of the oil-rich southern Nigeria
state of Bayelsa, following shootings and bombings the previous
night, the eve of the country's landmark elections.


"The soldiers have taken over the streets, they are heavily armed
and they are checking every vehicle. They ask people to raise
their hands and conduct body checks. They said they are looking
for militants", a witness said.


Gunfire broke out Friday evening at Creek Hotel, close to
Government house, when soldiers clashed with unknown assailants
attempting to enter the town where the ruling party's vice
presidential candidate, Goodluck Jonathan, was staying.


It was unclear whether Jonathan, who is also governor of Bayelsa
state, was targeted by the gunfire. A high-ranking state
government official in Yenagoa, speaking on anonymity, said
Jonathan had been taken to a safe location.


Jonathan is a member of Nigeria's ruling party PDP.


According to an AFP reporter, the scene of the trouble was
littered with empty shells Saturday morning and the area cordoned
off.


"We have repelled them but we are cordoning off the place to make
sure that the militants don't launch another attack", a military
official told AFP on condition of anonymity.


Presidential elections due to see the first civilian-to-civilian
transfer of power in the country's post-colonial history are
scheduled to begin at 0900 GMT Saturday, a week after violence
marred governorship and state assembly elections, killing 21
people.

