

The leading Dow Jones Industrial Average share index struck a
record finish for a third straight day in row Friday, surging 1.2
percent to an all-time closing high of 12,961.98.


The Dow flirted close to the key level of 13,000 points as
investors cheered a flurry of upbeat profit reports from
corporate America.


The blue-chip index closed up a notable 153.35 points after
hitting a record closing high of 12,808.63 points on Thursday.


The tech-rich Nasdaq composite meanwhile rocketed 21.04 points
(0.84 percent) to close at 2,526.39 while the broad-market
Standard and Poor's soared 13.62 points (0.93) percent higher to
close at 1,484.35.


A strong profit report from Internet search giant Google late
Thursday and solid earnings performances from pharmaceutical
heavyweight Pfizer and fast-food behemoth McDonald's on Friday
helped boost investor optimism.


"The market has been going up on the back of surprisingly
stronger earnings than people had been expecting," said Owen
Fitzpatrick, a market analyst at Deutsche Bank.


"I think it will be more of a challenge going forward once we
finish a good part of earnings, post next week," Fitzpatrick
said.


Analysts said investors are likely to then revert to focusing on
economic headlines where the picture has not been so upbeat.
Economic activity in the world's biggest economy has slowed in
recent months, partly amid concerns about a housing market
downturn.


Investors appeared happy to focus on earnings Friday, however.


Google said, after the market close Thursday, that its profits
surged 69 percent to one billion dollars in the first three
months of the year while Pfizer booked first quarter profits
totaling 3.99 billion dollars.


The world's biggest fast food chain, McDonald's, meanwhile said
its latest earnings swelled almost 22 percent from a year ago to
762.4 million dollars.


"Pfizer beat expectations. Honeywell also beat estimates and
raised guidance for the full year. McDonald's reported in line
with expectations," observed Dick Green, a president at
Briefing.com.


THe Internet search behemoth Google's shares spiked 10.83
dollars, or over two percent, to 482.48 dollars while McDonald's
shares closed down 42 cents at 48.36 dollars.


The weak US dollar, which has slumped heavily in value on foreign
exchange markets, helped McDonald's book better global revenues
as overseas customers paid for their meals with higher-value
currencies.


Investors also welcomed Pfizer's latest results, despite its
earnings slowing over 17 percent from a year ago after the drug
maker booked a one-time tax gain in 2006.


Pfizer's shares ended down 10 cents at 26.97 dollars.


Meanwhile, Dow Chemical and Libya's National Oil Corporation have
agreed a joint venture to operate and expand the Ras Lanuf
petrochemical complex in Libya, NOC said.


It said Dow Chemical was the first major international firm to
participate in such economic development of Libya's petrochemical
industry. Dow's shares closed up 25 cents at 45.21 dollars.


Bond prices weakened as investors shifted into stocks.


The yield on the 10-year US Treasury bond rose a few notches to
4.672 percent from 4.670 percent late Thursday while that on the
30-year bond climbed to 4.845 percent against 4.836 percent. Bond
yields and prices move in opposite directions.

