

Kyrgyz opposition leader Felix Kulov was questioned by state
security officials here Saturday amid a crackdown on the
opposition in this Central Asian country.


The authorities have targeted the opposition in recent days by
questioning their leaders, searching offices and confiscating
newspapers after anti-government demonstrations descended into
violence on Thursday.


Around 100 demonstrators were arrested when thousands threw rocks
and bottles at the presidential palace and police responded with
tear gas and flares.


Prime Minister Almaz Atambayev has blamed former prime minister
Kulov's "radical statements" for the violence, which effectively
ended 10 days of anti-government protests.


After almost four hours of questioning at the headquarters of the
GKNB internal security agency, Kulov emerged Saturday to deny
that demonstrations he helped organize were connected with the
violence.


"This is an unsubstantiated claim. I blame the authorities for
organizing the disturbances because they understood that we were
on our way to victory," he told waiting journalists.


Kulov helped organize a series of demonstrations that began on
April 11 in an effort to secure the resignation of President
Kurmanbek Bakiyev.


The opposition accuses Bakiyev of running a corrupt
administration and failing to live up to his pledges.


On Friday all copies of several opposition newspapers were seized
from a media centre run by US non-governmental organization
Freedom House in a move condemned Saturday by the US State
Department.


The offices of two opposition parties were also searched, while
several of Kulov's colleagues have been questioned.


Strategically located on China's western edge and host to US and
Russian airbases, Kyrgyzstan has experienced regular
demonstrations and unrest since the 2005 ouster of president
Askar Akayev in an uprising.

