

Thousands of demonstrators surrounded Ukraine's constitutional
court on Saturday as a parliamentary deputy told judges why a
presidential decree to dissolve parliament should be declared
invalid.


The court heard arguments on the legality of President Viktor
Yushchenko's decree to dissolve the legislature for a fifth day
running. The April 2 move plunged this ex-Soviet country into a
constitutional crisis.


Deputy Yaroslav Mendus told the judges that Yushchenko had
exceeded his authority by claiming the constitution allowed him
to dissolve parliament.


"Only the constitutional court is allowed to interpret the basic
law. If the president gets involved in this, it means we have
serious problems," Mendus told the judges.


The president has justified his attempt to dissolve parliament by
saying that the parliamentary majority of Prime Minister Viktor
Yanukovych violated the constitution by luring pro-Yushchenko
deputies into switching sides.


Yanukovych has opposed the dissolution and members of his
parliamentary majority asked the court to rule the decree
illegal.


It is not clear when the court will make a decision.


On the streets outside, thousands demonstrated both for and
against the dissolution amid a police presence that has grown
significantly since a demonstration delayed the hearing for an
hour on Wednesday.


Both sides' supporters have held protests in the capital nearly
every day since the president issued his controversial decree.


The latest round of talks between the prime minister and
president on Friday failed to break the deadlock.


The stand-off is being closely watched by outside powers anxious
about the political course of this country of 47 million people,
located between the European Union and NATO to the west and
Russia to the east.

