

A lawyer for five Bulgarian nurses on death row in Libya slammed
as a "farce" on Saturday their trial for slander after it emerged
that a third policeman had joined the list of plaintiffs.


The five nurses and a Palestinian doctor, who have been sentenced
to death for injecting more than 400 Libyan children with HIV-
tainted blood, stand accused of slandering the police by accusing
them of extracting confessions under torture.


The trial resumes on Sunday after a two-week adjournment at the
request of the defence team to allow a Bulgarian lawyer who has
just joined them to study the files.


"If a new policeman pops up at every hearing, the trial is going
to last a long time," complained lawyer Othman al-Bizanti.


"It's draining for us and draining for justice," he told AFP,
describing the whole process as a "farce."


The six medics have been in prison for eight years and were
condemned to death in 2004.


The accused said their "confessions" in the HIV trial were forced
from them under torture, including beatings, electric shocks and
being threatened with dogs.


The slander charge carries a maximum penalty of three years in
prison. The nurses are Kristiana Valcheva, Nassia Nenova, Valia
Cherveniachka, Valentina Siropoulo and Snejana Dimitrova, and the
doctor is Ashraf Ahmad Juma.


The medics, largely viewed as scapegoats by the international
community, maintain their innocence based on testimony by foreign
health experts who said the AIDS epidemic in Libya's second city
of Benghazi was sparked by poor hygiene.


The six launched a last appeal against their death sentences on
February 17.


EU parliament president Hans-Gert Poettering called on the Libyan
authorities on Friday to free the medics.

