

The Dutch ministry of health will allow a Dutch so-called
abortion ship to operate in international waters, overturning a
2004 ban, spokeswoman Lilian Jansen said Saturday.


The ship, run by pro-choice organisation Women on Waves, aims to
provide abortion services to women in countries where the
practice is banned.


Women on Waves is not allowed to carry out surgical abortions but
can give abortion pills to women who are up to seven weeks
pregnant.


The ship can only distribute the abortion pills in international
waters as Dutch law applies to the vessel. When it is in
territorial waters of a targeted country local laws apply.


During controversial visits to Ireland in 2001, Poland in 2003
and Portugal in 2004 Women on Waves tried to dock in a local
harbour but met fierce protests from pro-life campaigners.


Their intention to pick up women and take them out into
international waters to provide their services was thwarted
chiefly as very few women dared to board the boat amid the
protests.


The Dutch government's decision overturns an earlier ban on the
ship's operations. In 2004 the ministry of health ruled the
abortion ship could only operate within a 25-kilometer (15-mile)
radius of an Amsterdam hospital with which it had a partnership,
effectively banning the ship from operating outside of the
Netherlands.


That decision was overturned by the Dutch Council of State last
year and the government has now decided to reinstate the ship's
right to operate abroad in international waters.


Abortion pills are different from so-called morning after pills
or emergency contraceptives which prevent pregnancies.

