

The heated debate over increasing the size of the UN Security
Council restarted Friday with the release of a report noting the
lack of consensus on how to proceed in a key part of UN reform.


The report, the result of three months of consultations with the
192 member states, was sent to membership and will be discussed
in the General Assembly May 3, assembly president Haya Rashed al-
Khalifa of Bahrain.


The report by five "facilitators" indicates that most members
support expansion but cannot agree how it should look. The
authors gave no suggestion for a final solution, but noted that
many members seem willing to look for compromise.


"A significant number of member states tend to agree that their
ideal solution may not be possible at this stage, and believe
that it may be more reasonable to consider the best possible
substantial solution for now," they wrote.


The report suggests moving forward in steps, with an
"intermediary arrangement" that includes a "mandatory review to
take place at a predetermined date."


During the transitional period a number of configurations,
including a repartitioning of seats on a regional basis and the
most delicate, the veto- wielding power of the five permanent
members, could be considered.


The Security Council currently has 15 members, 10 rotating and
five permanent (China, United States, France, Britain and Russia)
which can veto any measure. The council's makeup has remained
largely unchanged since the establishment of the United Nations
in 1945.


Most members agree that the council, the power-wielding part of
the world body, should be enlarged to reflect modern global
realities and increase representation for the developing world.
However, the council is at a stalemate on how to make that
happen.

