

Iran has yet to decide whether to attend a conference next month
on Iraq, the Iranian foreign minister said, complaining the
gathering risks "weakening" the positions of the country's
neighbours.


Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki told the Kayhan daily in an
interview published Saturday that Iran would only make clear its
position on the conference after talks with his Iraqi counterpart
in Tehran next week.


The conference, scheduled for May 3-4 in the Egyptian Red Sea
resort of Sharm el-Sheikh, is set to bring together foreign
ministers of Iraq's neighbours and major world powers in a bid to
stem the daily bloodshed in the country.


"The definition of the Sharm el-Sheikh meeting weakens Iraq's
neighbours," Mottaki said.


"Some decisions have been made over which no consultations have
been carried out first," he fumed.


Mottaki said Iran objected to a conference including the top
diplomats from UN Security Council permanent members and G8
nations, including its arch foe the United States, being held
instead of a gathering of just Iraq's neighbours.


"It is preferable that a meeting of the neighbours take place in
Cairo instead of the joint conference," he said.


Mottaki also said that Iraqi Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari is
expected to hold talks in Tehran in the coming week before Iran
announces its position.


"In the past days, we have had some talks with the neighbouring
states and Mr Zebari is supposed to come to Iran next week for
talks in this regard and then we will announce our views."


US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice has said she will attend
the conference and has not ruled out holding talks with Mottaki.


However relations between the two foes have been further strained
by the continued detention by the US of five Iranians accused of
seeking to stir trouble in Iraq. Tehran insists the men are
diplomats working for a consulate.

