

German Nobel prize-winning author Gunter Grass on Saturday
condemned Poland's ultra-conservative government as a
"misfortune", saying it threatened to isolate the country within
Europe.


In an interview with the left-leaning German daily Frankfurter
Rundschau, the novelist, who was born in the Polish city of
Gdansk, then Danzig, said of Prime Minister Jaroslaw Kaczynski's
government: "It's a misfortune.


"He is isolating Poland, including from the heart of the European
Union. I hope he will not be re-elected in two years" in the next
general election. The Polish government is made up of ultra-
nationalists and populists, but Grass said the country must get
over its role as a victim.


"Although I understand the Polish people's fear towards their two
biggest neighbours, Germany and Russia, it is wrong to adopt such
an attitude," he said.


Grass continued: "With the fall of the Soviet Union, Poland is
today in the process of becoming a state enrolled in the present.
Poland is experiencing for the first time this freedom, and
within the context of a European alliance."


But, he told the newspaper, "if we set out to open up and use the
wounds of the past in this way, like the (Polish) government is
doing, that risks isolating Poland in the long-term".


Grass, who will soon turn 80, made headlines last year when he
admitted he served in the notorious Nazi elite force, the Waffen
SS, during World War II.


Relations between Berlin and Warsaw have been tense ever since
the Kaczynski twins came to power, Jaroslaw as prime minister and
Lech as president.


They accuse Berlin of doing nothing to stop its citizens expelled
from former German territories annexed by Poland in 1945 from
pursuing their land claims before the European courts.

