

A dissident member of Turkey's ruling party came forward Saturday
as the first candidate in next month's presidential election in
what he acknowledged was a protest gesture.


Ersonmez Yarbay, 54, is unlikely to get support from the Justice
and Development Party (AKP). The member of parliament slammed a
decision by the AKP executive board to give authority to Prime
Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan to determine the party's candidate.


Erdogan has refused to reveal its candidate until just before the
deadline at midnight on Wednesday, keeping the public on
tenterhooks amid widespread protests over his purported intention
to run.


"This creates the impression that Turkey is governed by a single
person... and this is not right," Yarbay told Anatolia news
agency after sumbitting his application. "I put forward my
candidacy to show that parliament members have their own will."


The AKP candidate is virtually certain to be elected thanks to a
two-third majority it holds in parliament, which will elect the
president.


Its majority has also discouraged opposition parties from
nominating candidates to succeed President Ahmet Necdet Sezer,
whose seven-year term ends on May 16.


Yarbay called on opposition parties to nominate candidates.


"Elections with a single candidate are held in countries like
Egypt and Syria. Turkey does not deserve it," he said.


Yarbay has often accused the AKP of not being democratic.


Erdogan's reported intention to stand for president has been
harshly criticised by secularists who argue that the prime
minister, a former Islamist who now describes himself as a
conservative democrat, is a divisive figure with no true
commitment to Turkey's secular system.

