

A coalition of Sunni insurgent groups led by Al-Qaeda's Iraq
branch claimed responsibility on Saturday for an attack on the
son of prominent Iraqi Shiite leader Abdel Aziz al-Hakim.


"The attack, carried out with ... rocket-propelled grenades,
against the vicious Safavid apostate Ammar al-Hakim ... resulted
in the death of a prominent commander of the Badr Brigade," said
the self-styled Islamic State of Iraq in an Internet statement.


The Badr Brigade is the military arm of the Supreme Council of
the Islamic Revolution in Iraq (SCIRI), a former Shiite rebel
group headed by Abdel Aziz al- Hakim that is one of the leading
factions in Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki's governing coalition.


Officials said on Friday that Ammar al-Hakim, himself a well-
known cleric and politician, was attacked in a town south of
Baghdad. He escaped unhurt but six of his security personnel were
wounded.


Hakim was on his way to Baghdad from the Shiite holy city of
Najaf when gunmen fired on his convoy as it passed the town of
Latifiyah, Najaf provincial spokesman Ahmed Duaibl said.


Saturday's statement by the Islamic State of Iraq, whose
authenticity could not be confirmed, said Hakim narrowly escaped
death and vowed that he would be targeted again.


It claimed that seven more people in his motorcade, including
four soldiers, were killed.


SCIRI was founded in exile in Iran and retains links to the
Tehran government.


In February, US troops detained Ammar al-Hakim for several hours
after his convoy crossed back into Iraq from Iran, accusing him
and his guards of behaving suspiciously during a search of their
vehicles.


The arrest triggered SCIRI-sponsored street protests and he was
released.

