

US jazz pianist Andrew Hill, who played with some of the greatest
jazz legends in his youth but only recently found commercial
success, has died at the age of 75, his record label said
Saturday.


The pianist and composer died on Friday after battling lung
cancer for several years, Blue Note Records said in a statement.


Hill, who was once described as "the next Thelonious Monk" and
"my last great protege" by Blue Note founder Alfred Lion, worked
with the leading label for over 44 years.


Born in Chicago in 1931, he started learning music at the age of
seven, first on the accordion and later the piano, playing with
musicians in Chicago before moving to New York in the 1960s.


In his early years he played with legends such as Charlie Parker
and Miles Davis and went on to record groundbreaking albums such
as "Point of Departure," "Black Fire," "Judgment!" and "Passing
Ships."


In the 1960s and 1970s he played with stalwarts such as Hank
Mobley, Lee Morgan, Philly Joe Jones, Freddie Hubbard and Woody
Shaw, but it was later in his career that he found a wider
audience.


He was diagnosed with cancer in 2004, and described the
experience as "the end of my world as I knew it." But he
continued to work.


"Even though I am living with a terminal illness I am able to
look forward to my work and the future with enthusiasm," he said
at the time.


Only last year he returned to Blue Note with the album "Time
Lines." The New York Times described it as "a master's record,
quiet, daring and magnificent" and named it number one album of
the year.


"If musicians are just trying to be different, but don't have a
synergy with the audience, they have nothing," Hill once said.


Blue Note played tribute to a "great pianist and composer."


"Our hearts go out to his wife Joanne, and the countless
musicians, friends and fans that his music and spirit touched
over the course of his remarkable life," the label said.

