

Nigeria, where voters went to the polls Saturday to choose a new
president, is currently led by Olusegun Obasanjo, the country's
first civilian president who was elected in 1999 after 15 years
of military rule and re-elected in 2003.


The west African country has a history marked by conflict,
especially the Biafra civil war at the end of the 1960s, and is
regularly hit by political and religious violence.


Vitally important to the country is the southern oil-rich Niger
Delta, the scene of recurring violence which has taken a turn for
the worse since 2006.


GEOGRAPHY: A western African nation spanning 923,773 square
kilometres (572,000 square miles) on the Atlantic Ocean. The
Federal Republic of Nigeria comprises 36 states, plus a federal
territory, Abuja.


POPULATION: Africa's most populous nation, it counts 140 million
inhabitants according to a 2006 census, made up of 250 ethnic and
linguistic groupings. The three main ethnic groups are: Muslim-
majority Hausa in the north,  a Christian- majority group, Ibos,
in the southeast, and the southwestern-based Yoruba.


CAPITAL: Abuja, while Lagos is the economic capital.


LANGUAGE: English is the official language but local languages
are also spoken.


RELIGIONS: Muslims and Christians each represent about a half of
the population, and animist rites are practised by a minority.


Deadly clashes between religious communities have split the
country, while the reintroduction in 2000 of Islamic Sharia law
in 12 northern states where Islam dominates has sparked violence.


REGIME HISTORY: British colony from 1900 until 1914, then a
protectorate until independence in 1960. In 1967, secession and
the declaration of a Biafra Republic in the southeast. Civil war
until January 1970 claimed more than a million lives. Six
military coup d'etats have been successful since independence.


In 1993, a political crisis shook the country after the
administration of Ibrahim Babangida annulled the presidential
race, in which Moshood Abiola declared himself the winner.


Military dictator Sani Abacha then came to power. The 1995 trial
and executions of Ogoni militants, including writer Ken Saro-
Wiwa, sparked condemnation and international sanctions.


In 1998, Abdulsalami Abubakar, as head of state, began an
electoral process to return civilian power. Obasanjo won the
presidential vote and took up the post in May 1999.


The 1999 constitution confirms a strong presidential regime,
while giving parliament wide privileges.


In 2003, Obasanjo was reelected in irregularity-marred polls. His
Peoples Democratic Party, enjoys an absolute majority in
parliament.


ECONOMY: Africa's leading crude oil producer and the world's
sixth biggest exporter. The country aims to produce four million
barrels a day by 2010, compared with its current 2.6 million per
day. Current production is hampered by 25 percent due to the
violence in the Niger Delta, from where the country draws 95
percent of its income in currency.


Despite its oil wealth, three quarters of the population live on
less than one dollar a day.


Agriculture employs more than 60 percent of the population. Cocao
accounts for more than half of agricultural exports.


ARMY: 78,500 men, according to 2006 figures by the International
Institute of Strategic Studies.


Nigeria provided the core of the West African force in Liberia
and Sierra Leone.

