

Pope Benedict XVI celebrated an open-air mass in the Renaissance
town of Vigevano on Saturday at the start of a two-day pastoral
visit to the northern Italian region of Lombardy.


Thousands of people filled the Piazza Ducale outside Vigevano's
cathedral for the mass, in addition to crowds lining the route
taken by Benedict's "pope- mobile."


"The family is the element that carries the life of society, and
it is only by acting in favour of the family that one can restore
the fabric of the ecclesiastical community and civil society,"
Benedict said in his homily.


He also called for attention to be paid to young people, both
"those who say they are close (to the Church) and those who are
said to be far away."


The pope was greeted in Vigevano by Italian Justice Minister
Clemente Mastella, a Catholic centrist.


Following in the footsteps of Saint Augustine, the head of the
Roman Catholic Church afterwards visited nearby Pavia where he
was met by a crowd of enthusiastic young people.


The pope said: "Society, which in this time that we live in is
marked by innumerable social variations, is waiting for the
contribution of young people to build a community that is less
selfish and more connected, that is truly inspired by the grand
ideas of justice, liberty and peace."


His programme in Pavia Sunday includes a hospital visit, another
open-air mass, a meeting with cultural figures, and a vespers
evening church service.


Benedict will also visit the tomb of Saint Augustine, a fifth-
century theologian considered a father of the Latin Church whom
the pope quotes frequently in his writings and speeches.


The trip is Benedict's fourth in Italy since the start of his
papacy two years ago.


Vigevano's Muslim community addressed a letter to Benedict in
which they hailed his "sincere will to launch a real dialogue for
better understanding with us Muslims and those who do not belong
to the Catholic Church".


The pontiff will travel to Brazil next month.

