

Virgin Atlantic chairman Richard Branson has been airbrushed out
of the James Bond film "Casino Royale" in edits of the movie
screened on rival airline British Airways, a newspaper reported
Saturday.


The Daily Telegraph said the entrepreneur, and all references to
his airline, had been airbrushed out by BA, which has a history
of bitter spats with its rival.


Branson appears briefly in the cinema version of the film, being
frisked at a Miami airport security arch.


But when he turns to face the camera, he is cut from the BA
version. A Virgin Atlantic plane has also been given the chop,
and where it could not be cut out, its tailfin has been painted
over.


A BA spokesman, quoted by the Telegraph, said all in-flight films
were vetted and confirmed that changes had been made to "Casino
Royale".


"We want to ensure they contain no material that might upset our
customers," he told the newspaper.


Virgin Atlantic said it did not pay to appear in the 2006 film
"Casino Royale", which marked actor Daniel Craig's first turn as
Bond, the suave British secret agent.


"We were phoned with a request from the film's producers to get a
plane into Prague, which masqueraded as Miami airport, at very
short notice. We were delighted to do so," a spokesperson told
The Daily Telegraph.


The broadsheet said it understood that the blockbuster film's
producers had been in negotiations with BA before turning to
Virgin Atlantic at a late stage.


It is not the first time that BA has got the scissors out when
its rival has appeared in a film.


Scenes in Virgin Atlantic's premium cabin were chopped out of
"The Wedding Date" before it was deemed suitable for BA
passengers.

