

West Ham's hopes of a great escape from the relegation zone were
given a massive shot in the arm as Bobby Zamora fired them to a
1-0 win over Everton at Upton Park.


Zamora unleashed a stunning 25-yard effort with his left boot
after only 12 minutes and, although they lived dangerously at
times, the Hammers were good value for the three points.


Everton's afternoon started to go wrong in the seventh minute,
when England forward Andrew Johnson limped off to be replaced by
Scotland winger James McFadden.


And things got worse for the visitors six minutes later, Zamora
collecting a pass from Israeli playmaker Yossi Benayoun before
unleashing a drive that left Tim Howard, in the Everton goal,
with no chance.


The first of West Ham's let-offs came midway through the opening
period when James Beattie looked set to score from close range
only to have the ball nicked off his toes by Wales centreback
James Collins.


Without the industry of Johnson up front, Everton scarcely
resembled a side occupying fifth place in the table and Lucas
Neill went close to claiming a second with a fierce drive that
missed the target by inches.


Half-chances for Anton Ferdinand and Zamora also went begging
before Hammers goalkeeper Robert Green did well to save from
Beattie as half-time approached.


Zamora blasted over in the first minute of the second half and
Matt Etherington squandered an even better chance ten minutes
later, when he hesitated over his shot from a Benayoun pass and
saw his effort blocked.


Beattie squandered another fine opportunity from a Leon Osman
cross, firing his shot from the corner of the six-yard box high
over the bar.


But the home side continued to dominate and, despite a nerve-
jangling six minutes of stoppage time, they held on for a win
that could have huge significance for the club's future.

