

Canada urged Egypt Saturday to allow a Canadian citizen to appeal
his 15-year prison sentence for spying for Israel, saying it was
concerned about allegations he was tortured.


Mohammed Essam Ghoneim al-Attar, 31, an Egyptian with Canadian
citizenship, was sentenced by Cairo's high state security court
on Saturday, based on a confession the defendant said was
extracted by torture.


"Canada calls on Egypt to ensure that Mr. Attar's right to have
his conviction and sentence reviewed by a higher tribunal is
upheld," Foreign Affairs Minister Peter MacKay said in a
statement.


"While Canada acknowledges that the Government of Egypt granted
consular access to Mr. Attar, we remain concerned about a number
of aspects in this case," MacKay said


"The allegations of mistreatment and torture made by Mr. Attar
during his trial are of particular concern," he said.


"We have raised the issue of torture repeatedly with Egyptian
authorities," MacKay said, calling on Egypt to launch a "prompt
and impartial" investigation into Attar's claims.


"Under international human rights law, evidence obtained under
torture is inadmissible and cannot be the basis for a
conviction," he added.


"We request that Egypt address these concerns and ensure that Mr.
Attar's legal and human rights are respected."


Throughout his trial, which began in February, Attar protested
his innocence, claiming that Egyptian security services extracted
his confession by torture.


Prosecutors charged that Attar was recruited by three Israelis,
who were sentenced Saturday in absentia, when he visited Turkey
on a tourist visa in 2001.


The prosecution said Attar was trained by the Mossad officers to
gather information from Arabs living in Turkey -- an activity he
later continued when he moved to Canada, where he obtained
citizenship.


He was arrested while visiting his family in Cairo on January 1
and charged with espionage, bribery and recruiting Arabs abroad
for foreign intelligence services.

