

Seven policemen on election duty were ambushed and shot dead late
Friday near Karu town in Nigeria's central Nassarawa State,
national police spokesman Haz Iwendi told AFP Saturday.


"The seven policemen were coming from Lafia (the state capital).
They ran into an ambush near Karu town and they were shot dead by
unknown assailants," Iwendi said in a telephone interview.


The attack on the eve of Saturday's key presidential and
parliamentary elections brought to 26 the number of policemen
killed in the past week in election- related and other violence.


Seven policemen were killed on April 14 in the southern oil city
of Port Harcourt by militants while 12 were shot dead five days
ago when suspected Islamic radicals attacked a police station in
the northern city of Kano.


At least 21 other people also died on April 14 in violence that
marred state governorship and parliamentary polls across Nigeria,
according to police figures.


Speaking earlier Saturday after casting his vote in the
presidential poll in his hometown of Abeokuta in the southwest,
President Olusegun Obasanjo expressed his condolences to the
relatives of the dead.


"It is a pity and I regret and console the families of those who
have lost their lives, directly or indirectly in the process of
these elections, whether they are members of law enforcement
agencies or members of (the electoral agency) INEC, ordinary
party members, supporters or ordinary citizens of Nigeria," he
said.


"It does not reflect well on us as a nation that this has
happened," Obasanjo added.

