

Greg Oden, projected to be the top pick in June's National
Basketball Association Draft, confirmed Saturday that he will
leave Ohio State University to test his skills in the
professional ranks.


In a statement released by the college, the powerful center
declared his decision less than three weeks after his Buckeyes
lost to the University of Florida in the US national collegiate
tournament championship game.


"This is a very tough decision for me," Oden said. "I love Ohio
State and love being a Buckeye, but I also have a great
opportunity to take my game to the next level and compete with
the best players in the world."


The 7-foot sensation averaged 15.7 points, 9.6 rebounds and 3.3
blocks while shooting 62 percent from the field in his freshman
season for Ohio State, with 25 points and 12 rebounds in the
84-75 title-game loss to Florida.


Oden's size, quickness and skills would have made him a candidate
to jump directly from high school to the NBA but he was in the
first class of players banned from doing so by a change in NBA
rules.


Waiting another year to make another run at a college crown under
Ohio State coach Thad Matta was not in his best interest with NBA
clubs prepared to pay millions and a number one selection likely.


"I've discussed this with family, friends and coach Matta and I
feel the time is right," Oden said.


Teammates Mike Conley Jnr and Daequan Cook also announced they
will leave for the NBA, but unlike Oden will not sign with an
agent. That allows them to return to school and play if they
withdraw from draft eligibility by June 18.


Oden is expected to make Mike Conley Snr, a former US athletics
star, his agent.


Conley is projected to be the top point guard taken in the NBA
Draft after directing the Buckeyes' attack.


"It is my life-long dream to play in the NBA," Conley said.

