

Austrian Vice-Chancellor and Economy Minister Wilhelm Molterer
was elected head of the conservative People's Party Saturday,
putting an end to the era of former Chancellor Wolfgang
Schuessel.


Molterer was elected as expected to succeed Schuessel, who headed
the party for a record 12 years, winning 97.04 percent of the
votes at his party's conference in Salzburg.


Molterer is now expected to take the conservatives on a new
course under the motto "Courage for new values and new
directions" after the party suffered an unexpected defeat to the
Social Democrats of Chancellor Alfred Gusenbauer in parliamentary
elections on October 1.


"Tell me when something is wrong. But tell me also when something
is right," Molterer told party members Saturday.


"The Social Democrats did not win the election, we lost it,"
Schuessel also said in an emotional speech, greeted in the end by
standing ovations.


The former chancellor was the first to form a ruling coalition
with the far- right when he joined forces with the Freedom Party
of Joerg Haider in 2000, prompting the European Union to impose
economic sanctions on Austria.


German Chancellor Angela Merkel, in a recorded video message from
Berlin shown at the beginning of the conference Saturday, sent
her congratulations to Molterer and thanked Schuessel for years
of friendly collaboration.


The chancellor and face of the conservatives until just over
three months ago, Schuessel has all but retired from politics
now, staying on only as head of the conservative faction in
parliament.


He told his party's conference Saturday however that he would
remain in that post so that his successor, whom he called "the
right man in the right position," could make use of his political
experience.

