

The United States will offer Russia new incentives in a bid to
persuade it to drop its opposition to US plans to build missile
defense sites in Poland and the Czech Republic, The New York
Times reported Saturday.


Citing unnamed senior administration and military officials, the
newspaper said the package would include an invitation to begin
linking some Russian and US antimissile systems.


The Defense Department and the State Department declined to
comment on the report.


According to the Times, the package includes US offers to
cooperate on developing defense technology and to share
intelligence about common threats, as well as to permit Russian
officials to inspect the future missile bases.


Administration officials said the initiatives were proposed at
least in part at the urging of European allies, and reflected an
acknowledgment at the highest levels of President George W.
Bush's administration that it had not been agile in dealing with
Russia on the missile defense issue, the newspaper said.


The initiatives include offers that are "deeper, more specific
and concrete" than any previous proposal for cooperation from the
administration to the Kremlin, The Times quotes one senior
official as saying.


The initiatives will also include an invitation "toward
fundamental integration of our systems," a senior military
officer involved in the discussions was quoted as saying.


The offers of cooperation will be laid out for Russian officials
in the coming weeks in a series of high-level meetings being
scheduled by senior US officials, including Defense Secretary
Robert Gates and Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, The Times
said.


If those talks go well, they will continue over the summer and
fall between Bush and Russian President Vladimir Putin, according
to the report.

