

Roger Federer applied the power after he trailed early on then
throttled into his second consecutive final at the Monte Carlo
Masters on Saturday.


The Swiss top seed extended his mastery over two-time winner Juan
Carlos Ferrero, defeating the Spaniard 6-3, 6-4.


Federer improved to 7-3 against Ferrero, with their only previous
clay court meeting coming in the Rome semi-finals four years ago
when the Spaniard retired because he was injured.


The win was the fifth in a row for the Swiss in the series.


Federer set up his side of a Sunday trophy re-match with hot
rival Rafael Nadal, the two-time Roland Garros winner bidding for
a title hat-trick in the principality.


Nadal was later facing Czech tenth seed Tomas Berdych in a grudge
semi-final match after the pair exchanged words in their last
meeting, a win by Berdych which eliminated the world number 2
from last autumn's Madrid event.


Federer, defeated by Nadal in the final here a year ago, will be
playing in his third final of the season after winning the
Australian Open and Dubai.


Federer began slowly against former number one Ferrero, falling
3-1 behind in the opening set and facing the possibility of a 4-1
deficit.


But saving a pair of Ferrero chances seemed to flick a switch for
the Swiss, who proceeded to turn on his trademark domination.


Precise passing shots and even the occasional serve-and-volley
winner flowed, with Federer claiming seven straight points midway
through.


He got the break back in the sixth game, broke the Spaniard for
5-3 and fired an ace for a set point a game later.


That was all it took as a frustrated Ferrero returned wide after
38 minutes.


Federer consolidated as he started the second set with a break
then maintained the edge onwards to victory in 76 minutes.

