

Six Palestinians were killed in Israeli army raids in and around
the West Bank town of Jenin and an air strike in the Gaza Strip
on Saturday, medical and security sources said.


It was the bloodiest day of Israeli-Palestinian violence in
months.


Kamal Anan, 37, of the radical Islamic Jihad group died when an
Israeli aircraft fired a missile at his car in Jabaliya, northern
Gaza, minutes after two Israelis were wounded by a rocket he
fired on the Jewish state, they said.


Another militant was lightly wounded.


The raid came after two Israeli civilians were slightly wounded
in a Palestinian attack in the southern town of Sderot, some five
kilometres (three miles) from the Gaza Strip.


"A house in Sderot sustained a direct hit from a Qassam rocket.
Two people were taken to hospital with light wounds," a spokesman
for the Magen David Adom rescue services told AFP.


Four other people were treated for shock at the site.


According to an Israeli army spokesman, Palestinian militants
fired three projectiles. The aircraft "fired at a vehicle
carrying the rocket launching cell shortly after they had fired
rockets at the town of Sderot", he said.


Prime Minister Ehud Olmert's spokeswoman Miri Eisin told AFP that
"Israel expects the Palestinian leadership to entirely stop
rocket fire from the Gaza Strip."


Militants in the Gaza Strip regularly fire rockets against
Israel, despite a ceasefire agreement reached between Palestinian
groups and the Jewish state on November 26.


In other violence, Israeli troops on Saturday shot dead three
Palestinian militants during a raid in the West Bank town of
Jenin, Palestinian security and medical sources said.


Special forces opened fire on a car, killing Abbas al-Damaj and
Ahmad Ayassa from the Al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigades, a militant
offshoot of president Mahmud Abbas's Fatah movement.


A third militant from Islamic Jihad died of his wounds shortly
after being hit in the same incident, the sources said.


The Israeli army said that "during an operation in Jenin, a
border police special force identified three militants firing at
them and returned fire, hitting the three."


Late Saturday, troops shot dead a 17-year-old girl during an
incursion in Jenin, medical sources said. Huda Barghish was
killed as 25 army jeeps rolled into the centre of Jenin's refugee
camp.


Israeli troops also shot dead a Palestinian policeman, 23-year-
old Mohammed Abed, during an earlier operation in Jenin.


The latest deaths brought to 5,666 the overall toll since the
eruption of the current Palestinian uprising in September 2000,
the vast majority of them Palestinians, according to an AFP
count.

