

South African Rudi Koertzen set a new one-day umpiring record by
standing in his 173rd one-day international in the West Indies-
England Super Eights match here on Saturday.


The 58-year-old Koertzen beat the all-time record set by David
Shepherd of England who stood in 172 one-day matches before
retiring in 2005.


A member of the International Cricket Council (ICC) Elite Panel
of umpires since 2002, Koertzen stood in the 1999 and 2003 World
Cups.


The 2003 Cup semi-final between Australia and Sri Lanka in Port
Elizabeth was his 100th one-dayer since making his international
debut in a match between South Africa and India in Port Elizabeth
in 1992.


Koertzen has also stood in 80 Tests.


ICC Umpires Manager Doug Cowie paid tribute to Koertzen's
achievements.


"Rudi's achievement is testament to his remarkable consistency
and enormous ability as a decision-maker. He has proved himself
to be unyielding, resilient, dependable, loyal and dedicated, all
qualities that are needed to make it to the top of his
profession," said Cowie, a former international umpire.


ICC President Percy Sonn, a countryman of Koertzen said: "For
someone to stay at the top of his game for as long as Rudi has
required incredible commitment and dedication. Thankfully, Rudi
has that and his obvious love for what he does is apparent every
time he takes the field."


"And on a personal note, as a South African it's great to see him
continue to do so well and we are all very proud of him at home."


Apart from Koertzen and Shepherd, West Indian Steve Bucknor
(161), Australians Daryl Harper (141), Darrell Hair (131) and
Simon Taufel (115), New Zealand's Billy Bowden (114), South
Africa's David Orchard (107) and New Zealand's Steve Dunne (100)
have stood in 100 or more one-dayers.

