

Thousands of demonstrators surrounded Ukraine's constitutional
court on Saturday as parliamentary deputies told judges why a
presidential decree to dissolve parliament should be declared
invalid.


For a fifth day running the court heard arguments on the legality
of President Viktor Yushchenko's April 2 decree to dissolve the
legislature amid a feud with Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych,
plunging the ex-Soviet country into a constitutional crisis.


The 17 judges of the court later adjourned until Monday. They
still have to hear more members of parliament as well as
representatives of the government and the central electoral
commission.


Deputy Yaroslav Mendus told the judges that Yushchenko had
exceeded his authority by claiming the constitution allowed him
to dissolve parliament.


"Only the constitutional court is allowed to interpret the basic
law. If the president gets involved in this, it means we have
serious problems," Mendus said.


The president has justified his move by saying that Yanukovych's
parliamentary majority had violated the constitution by luring
pro-Yushchenko deputies into switching sides.


Yanukovych has opposed the dissolution and members of his
majority asked the court to rule the decree illegal.


It is not clear when the court will make a decision.


On the streets outside, thousands demonstrated both for and
against the dissolution amid a police presence that has grown
significantly since a demonstration delayed the hearing for an
hour on Wednesday.


Both sides' supporters have held protests in the capital nearly
every day since the president issued his controversial decree.


The latest round of talks between the prime minister and
president on Friday failed to break the deadlock.


The stand-off is being closely watched by outside powers anxious
about the political course of this country of 47 million people,
located between the European Union and NATO to the west and
Russia to the east.

