

The European Union and the United States have approved a plan to
bolster the transatlantic economic partnership, to be signed at
the next EU-US summit, Der Spiegel magazine reported.


In its edition to be published Monday, the German magazine said
the accord had been agreed by German Chancellor Angela Merkel, as
holder of the EU presidency, US President George W. Bush and
European Commission president Jose Manuel Barroso.


They had agreed to "extensive economic collaboration between the
EU and United States," it wrote, of the draft accord which is due
to be signed in Washington at the end of the month.


According to Der Spiegel, the plan notably says: "We are aiming
for a transatlantic market without barriers."


The partnership includes common norms and standards for
industrial companies and financial service providers. Balance
sheet directives would be recognised on both sides of the
Atlantic in 2008, it said.


That would also be the case for admission procedures in the
pharmaceutical and chemical industries, as well as for the
cosmetics sector and automobile parts, it added.


And it foresees the creation of a forum on energy technologies to
formulate recommendations. Both the American administration and
the European Commission are also each expected to create a post
to deal with transatlantic trade issues.


Questioned by AFP, a German government spokesman said he was
unable to deny or confirm the Spiegel article.


However, he said: "We are confident that Mrs Merkel, Mr Barroso
and Mr Bush will adopt an ambitious accord to deepen economic
transatlantic relations during the American-European summit."


Bush is due to host the annual summit between the United States
and the European Union on April 30.

