

The Democratic Republic of Congo government has ended its
occupation of opposition leader Jean-Pierre Bemba's party
headquarters put in place after deadly clashes last month.


The headquarters for the Congolese Liberation Movement (MLC), led
by former vice president and ex-rebel chief Bemba, had been
ransacked by the military after clashes on March 22 and 23. Radio
and television stations owned by Bemba were also looted.


MLC party official, Thomas Luhaka, said the government lifted the
ban on access to the headquarters following a meeting late Friday
between himself, a security ministry official and the head of the
lower house of parliament.


Several journalists were allowed into the headquarters, as well
as radio and television stations belonging to Bemba, on Saturday
and saw the damage and apparent looting.


"While we condemn the looting, the reopening of our headquarters
also means we are moving in the direction of tensions being
eased," said Romain Nimi, a senator for the opposition party.
"But we will have to be compensated to be able to function."


MLC lawmakers walked out of parliament earlier this month over
security concerns. They are currently in negotiations to return
to the legislature, which are proceeding in a good atmosphere,
according to Luhaka.


The clashes between the Congolese army and Bemba's guard resulted
in between 200 and 500 deaths, according to diplomatic sources.
Fighting broke out after Bemba, an arch-rival of President Joseph
Kabila, refused to have his guard integrated into the regular
army.


Bemba, also a failed presidential candidate, had been holed up in
the South African embassy since the clashes until leaving for
Portugal last week, officially for medical treatment.


The DRC's state prosecutor is seeking to have Bemba's immunity
lifted so he can face charges related to last month's clashes.

