

Italian ace Valentino Rossi took a step towards claiming one of
the only two Grand Prix races on the calendar he is yet to win by
securing pole position here on Saturday.


The seven-time world champion, who rides a Yamaha, clocked 1min
52.795sec around the Istanbul Park to edge out American team-mate
Colin Edwards by 0.149sec.


Spaniard Dani Pedrosa was third on his Honda with Australian
Casey Stoner, who won the first GP of the season in Qatar, fourth
on his Ducati. Current world champion Nicky Hayden of the United
States qualified sixth fastest.


Rossi was delighted with the 47th pole position of his
illustrious career, despite not being at one of his prefered
venues.


"I'm very happy to have a pole position at this track, which has
never been one of my favourites," he said.


"I've had some bad moments here in the past but this year it
feels like a different track for me and I'm having great fun!"


Rossi has not won here in the two years that the Turkish GP has
been part of the Moto GP calendar and his most immediate rivals
are just beside him - the top three separated by less than
0.2sec.


"All three of us are very close on the front row so I think it's
going to be a tight battle tomorrow (Sunday)," added Rossi.


His team-mate Edwards was surprised with his lofty qualifying
place.


"After the problems we had yesterday (in practice) I've got to
say a massive thanks to my team."


Rossi, who won the second GP of the season in Jerez, Spain as
well as finishing second to Stoner in the first, goes into
Sunday's race with a nine-point championship lead over Stoner and
Pedrosa.


Edwards is fourth, 219 points off the pace, with Hayden down in
sixth, 28 points behind Rossi.

