

Two-time European champions Leicester ensured that the European
Cup final would be an all English affair after they beat Llanelli
33-17 here on Saturday.


The Tigers - who will be playing in their fourth final - will
play either Wasps or Northampton at Twickenham in May as their
fly-half Andy Goode dominated the match with 23 of their points.


Goode gave Leicester - who ironically will not play in the
tournament next year because of the French and English club
boycott - the perfect start with a third minute penalty and added
another one rather fortunately as it hit the post but got the
benefit of the bounce over the bar.


Wales captain Stephen Jones became the tournament's leading
scorer for the season when he landed a penalty in the 10th minute
to reduce the deficit to just three points.


The Welsh side produced the best back move of the match in the
15th minute to take them deep into Leicester's territory and the
Tigers saw themselves reduced to 14 men due to a yellow card for
Ireland star Geordan Murphy, whose professional foul saw him sin-
binned.


However Jones completely scuffed his kick to leave the score at
6-3 to the English side and, even with Murphy off the pitch, the
Tigers extended their lead to 9-3 as Goode slotted another
penalty just after the 20 minute mark.


Goode then scrambled over for the first try of the match in the
34th minute, breaking one mistimed Llanelli tackle before
converting for good measure.


However the Welsh side were not sheepish about that and rebounded
almost immediately to score a try of their own with a well worked
back move which saw Regan King throw a long pass out to Mark
Jones who ran it in - Stephen Jones added the conversion to make
it 16-10.


Llanelli took the lead for the first time 10 minutes into the
second-half as Matthew Rees survived not only a last ditch effort
by Goode to stop him from touching down but also the video
referee, to give him the try and Stephen Jones converted to make
it 17-16.


However just as Llanelli had done in the first-half so did
Leicester this time as they scored a try which unsurprisingly was
created by the lively Goode, whose chip over the Llanelli
backline was collected by Shane Jennings and the Tigers flanker
ran in unopposed to touch down, leaving the Leicester fly-half a
simple conversion.


Llanelli were unable to reply and, pinned back inside their 22
for most of the last 10 minutes, their defence cracked again,
allowing Louis Deacon to burrow over for a try - his third in the
tournament this season - and the superb Goode converted to make a
date at Twickenham in May a certainty for the English giants.

