

The German engineering giant Siemens' former chief executive and
current supervisory board chief, Heinrich von Pierer, knew since
1997 about alleged illicit payments to a small union, a German
newspaper reported Saturday.


Suddeutsche Zeitung daily, citing prosecutors' files, said the
payments were discussed at a supervisory board meeting in
December 1997.


Von Pierer announced Friday that he would resign at the next
board meeting on April 25 as he came under increasing pressure
over corruption investigations into the company.


Von Pierer told the paper he did not know about agreements made
between Siemens and the then-head of the small AUB union.


Investigators say Siemens made 50 million euros (68 million
dollars) in payments to the AUB union as a way of countering the
powerful IG Metall union.


In an interview with Bild newspaper published Saturday, von
Pierer again stressed he was innocent of any wrongdoing, adding
that the size of the company made it impossible for him to be
aware of all activities.


"In a company where there are order receipts for 350 million
euros (475 million dollars) every day or where 30 million
accounting operations take place each day, the president of the
board cannot know everything," he said.


Despite the controversy, von Pierer's decision to resign
surprised many. The 66 -year-old was previously one of the most
respected CEOs in Germany who was even named at one time as a
possible candidate for German president.


He will remain an adviser to German Chancellor Angela Merkel.


Besides the controversy over the alleged union payments, Siemens
is also engulfed in a massive slush-fund scandal. Prosecutors
have alleged that company managers siphoned off hundreds of
millions of euros to obtain foreign contracts.

