

Indian and Chinese officials held a second day of talks here
Saturday to try and find a solution to a decades-old border
dispute, an Indian official said, but there was little sign of
progress.


The two delegations reached the picturesque Coonoor resort town
in the southern Tamil Nadu state Saturday morning and went into
talks soon afterwards, the official said.


This is the 10th round of talks between the two sides since India
and China appointed special representatives in 2003 to speed up a
resolution to the border dispute which is a legacy of the brief
but bitter 1962 conflict.


Security was tight as the teams headed by Indian National
Security Advisor M.K. Narayanan and Chinese Vice Foreign Minister
Dai Bingguo arrived here, said the official who declined to give
any details of talks.


The two sides held a preliminary round of talks in New Delhi
Friday ahead of courtesy calls on Indian Prime Minister Manmohan
Singh and foreign minister Pranab Mukherjee.


India says China occupies 38,000 square kilometres (15,200 square
miles) of its territory, while Beijing claims 90,000 square
kilometres of the remote Indian state of Arunachal Pradesh.


A formal ceasefire line was never established after 1962, but the
border has remained mostly peaceful after agreements were signed
in 1993 and 1996.


During a visit to New Delhi in November, Chinese President Hu
Jintao said both sides would accord priority to resolving the
border row.


Diplomatic ties between the two economic rivals have increased in
recent years with the exchange of many bilateral visits and two-
way trade touching two billion dollars a month, India's trade
minister Kamal Nath told reporters.


Sources said premier Singh plans to visit China this year.

