

Tatiana Golovin brushed aside Akiko Morigami in straight sets to
put hosts France 2-0 up against Japan after the first day of
their Fed Cup World Group first round tie here on Saturday.


Golovin, who has taken over as team leader as world number three
Amelie Mauresmo recovers from appendicitis, won 6-2, 6-4 after
Nathalie Dechy earlier beat Japan's top-ranked player Ai Sugiyama
7-5, 6-1.


The 19-year-old Golovin has moved up to world number 18 after
winning her first career title earlier this month at Amelia
Island.


And the teenager gave 27-year-old Morigami no chance to avenge
her loss in her only previous meeting with the Frenchwoman at the
2004 US Open.


Golovin took the first set against 55th-ranked Morigami in 30
minutes and resisted a fightback by her Japanese opponent in the
second.


"I let up a bit in the second set, mainly because of the tension.
She started to serve very well but I was stronger mentally," said
Golovin.


Earlier Dechy won a battle of nerves against Fed Cup veteran
Sugiyama.


After an intense battle lasting 65 minutes, Sugiyama was the
first to crack at 6-5 with a double fault allowing Dechy to claim
the first set during which the Frenchwoman had to save seven of
eight break points.


"Taking the first set was really important. It was intense and we
were both exhausted when we returned to the locker room. But I
handled it better than her," said Dechy.


The French are now just one match away from booking a spot in
July's semi-finals against either Italy or China.


"We accomplished our mission from the first day," said France
captain Georges Goven. "We're in the most comfortable position
possible."


Golovin is slated to meet Sugiyama and Dechy will tackle Morigami
in Sunday's reverse singles which will be followed by the
doubles, where Golovin teams up with Severine Bremond and
Sugiyama with Ayumi Morita.

