

The word "great" can be overused but in Brian Lara's case it is
definitely merited, International Cricket Council chief executive
Malcolm Speed said here on Saturday.


The 37-year-old West Indian great bowed out of international
cricket with the last Super Eights match against England at the
Kensington Oval, after a glittering career in which he smashed a
host of batting records.


Speed said Lara's career was a treat for fans all over the world.


"As a batsman, he has provided superb value to all fans of the
game over 17 years," Speed told AFP.


Lara made 18 in his last innings before he was run out and was
given a standing ovation by a capacity crowd.


In all Lara played 299 one-day internationals, scoring 10,405
runs - the fifth highest by any batsman in limited overs cricket.


"It is fitting in some ways that his international career is
ending here in Barbados because it was here that he played one of
his great innings, the 153 not out that helped beat Australia in
a Test match back in 1999.


"I was fortunate to witness that innings, together with another
outstanding hundred in the Test that followed in Antigua, and it
summed up the way he has played: brilliant under pressure but
also remembering that the game is entertainment."


Lara's tally of 11,953 runs in 131 matches is the highest by any
batsman in Test cricket. He also hit 34 centuries, second only to
India's Sachin Tendulkar's 35.


Speed said Lara was an example for other cricketers.


"Just as important as the runs he scored and the way he scored
them, Brian has also played in a way that has been true to the
spirit of cricket and we should be grateful for that too because
players are role models for the next generation.


"It is always sad when a player leaves the stage, especially when
it is someone of Brian's stature, but he has left us with some
fantastic memories and for that cricket owes him a great deal."

