

Bolton's faint Champions League hopes died with a late collapse
at the Reebok Stadium as Reading ran out 3-1 winners on Saturday.


Sam Alardyce will be fuming as his side conceded three goals in
the final six minutes to leave them with a mathematical but
unrealistic chance of overhauling Arsenal for fourth spot and a
date in Europe's top competition next season.


It all looked rosy for Bolton after 64 minutes of a dire match as
Nicolas Anelka's shot deflected off Nicky Shorey and left
American goalkeeper Marcus Hahnemann beaten.


With Arsenal being held to a draw at Tottenham, that would have
cut the gap between fourth and fifth to six points, with three
games to play.


But a Kevin Doyle brace and another goal from Stephen Hunt
ensured Bolton's deficit is nine points, the maximum available
from their remaining games. They would need to make up a goal
differential of 30 in three games to surpass Arsenal - an almost
impossible task.


The victory, though, propelled Reading back into the UEFA Cup
picture, moving them above Tottenham on goal difference and into
the final, crucial European qualification place.


It all went wrong for Bolton six minutes from time as Senegalese
Abdoulaye Meite chopped down Doyle in the Bolton box and the
Reading striker dusted himself down before slotting home the
resulting penalty.


Five minutes later and Doyle tapped home his second to turn the
game on its head after Steve Sidwell missed a cross. It was his
air-shot that distracted the Bolton defence, though, leaving
Doyle the simple task of scoring his 12th of the campaign.


Moments later Hunt was left unmarked in the box to head home a
cross from Shorey and put the final nail in Bolton's Champions
League coffin.

