

Former West Indies captain Clive Lloyd retired as an
International Cricket Council (ICC) match referee on Saturday,
the same day as Brian Lara quit international cricket.


Lloyd, 62, served as match referee in 53 Tests and 133 one-day
internationals and was praised for his services in a ceremony
during the last World Cup Super Eights match between the West
Indies and England at the Kensington Oval.


Lloyd, who led the West Indies to World Cups win in 1975 and 1979
when the team dominated global cricket, was lauded by ICC chief
executive Malcolm Speed.


ICC president Percy Sonn praised Lloyd's contribution as referee.


"When Clive hung up his boots as a player he did not disappear
from the game but became a fine administrator with the West
Indies Cricket Board and subsequently an excellent match
referee," said Sonn.


"Just like when he played the game, Clive brought his own
integrity and sense of fair play to his role as referee. He had
the rare ability to forge good relations with the players and he
always managed to retain their respect, which is so vital for
match officials."


As an aggressive left-hander Lloyd scored 7,515 Test runs.


He was West Indies' most successful captain in history, leading
his team in 74 Test matches with a remarkable run of 26 Tests
without defeat and 11 successive wins.


Lloyd thanked the ICC for their acknowledgement of his services.


"This is a wonderful gesture by the ICC and I feel proud to have
served them for such a long while. We all come to the end
eventually and this is my time but it was a pleasure to have been
involved with them.


"The transition from player to referee was not that difficult for
me because if you believe in discipline it's obvious that you
would fit quite easily into the role. I have always felt strongly
about discipline in the game."


Lloyd is currently serving as manager of the West Indies team.

