

England were 213-6 after 40 overs in their last World Cup Super
Eights match against West Indies at the Kensington Oval on
Saturday chasing 301 to win.


Kevin Pietersen was on 62 with Paul Nixon on four.


Andrew Strauss was the first man out caught by Devon Smith off
Corey Collymore for seven with the total on 11 in the third over.


Ravi Bopara was the second man out run out by Dwayne Bravo for 26
with the score on 101 in the 16th over.


Bravo then ran out Michael Vaughan with a direct hit when the
England skipper had made 79 off 68 balls, his best score of the
tournament.


That made the total 154-3 in the 27th over which became 162-4
when Bravo bowled Paul Collingwood for six.


Andrew Flintoff was caught by Daren Powell off Ramnaresh Sarwan
for 15 before Jamie Dalrymple was run out by Devon Smith for one
as England slumped to 189-6 in the 36th over.


Earlier Chris Gayle smashed three sixes and 10 fours in a 58-ball
79 for his first half-century of the tournament as the West
Indies made 300.


Gayle put on 131 for the opening wicket with Devon Smith (61),
who played a supporting role remarkably well before falling to a
superb one-handed catch by Paul Collingwood at point off paceman
Andrew Flintoff.


Marlon Samuels (51) and Shivnarine Chanderpaul (34) also made
merry.


Skipper Brian Lara, playing his last match before retirement,
made a 17-ball 18 before being run out while responding to a call
from a hesistant Marlon Samuels.


Samuels initially charged for a single after pushing paceman
Stuart Broad to mid-on before changing his mind. Lara was out of
the crease when Kevin Pietersen hit the stumps at the non-
striker's end with an underarm throw.


Lara had arrived at the crease to a thunderous applause from a
capacity crowd and was given a guard of honour by the England
team.


Neither West Indies nor England can reach the semi-finals after
suffering dismal campaigns.

