

A Ronaldo double fired AC Milan to a 3-1 Serie A win over
Cagliari at the San Siro on Saturday as the Italian side warmed
up in style for next week's Champions League semi-final against
Manchester United.


Goals from the Brazilian in either half and a late free kick from
Italy midfielder Andrea Pirlo gave AC Milan a four-point cushion
in fourth place.


Carlo Ancelotti rested many of the players who are expected to
start against Manchester United.


Ronaldo's opening goal on 14 minutes was not without controversy
with the Sardinians protesting a tackle by Cafu on Cristiano Del
Grosso, but the referee waved play on, allowing the Brazilian to
tap in.


There was no arguing with his second after 69 minutes, though,
Ronaldo scoring with his chest from a Cafu centre.


With seven goals in 10 matches, the Brazilian, who cannot compete
in the Champions League because he has already played this season
with Real Madrid, has more than met expectations since his winter
transfer.


Pirlo rounded off the scoring with 10 minutes to go with a free
kick ending the hopes of Cagliari who six minutes earlier had
pulled one back through a penalty converted by Suazo.


Thanks to their fourth straight success, the Milan outfit have
fulfilled their aim of reaching the coveted fourth and final
qualifying spot for the Champions League next season and are just
a point behind third-placed Lazio who host seventh-placed
Fiorentina on Sunday.


Earlier, two late goals gave Sampdoria a 3-1 win at home against
relegation- threatened Messina.


Reto Ziegler scored the opener after 13 minutes and created the
second for Daniele Franceschini seven minutes from time after
Christian Rigano had levelled for Messina after 54 minutes.


Gennaro Delvecchio claimed Sampdoria's third in the final minute,
seeing them move to within two points of Fiorentina.

