

Racing was once again cancelled for the day, the fifth time in
six days this week, as low winds scuppered the Louis Vuitton Cup
here on Saturday.


The weather has played havoc with the schedule for the Cup
competition, the winner of which will take on holders Alinghi in
the America's Cup, due off in June.


Wind speeds reached no more than six knots on Saturday, just
short of the minimum seven required to allow racing to begin.


There was some racing on Friday, the only day to see some action,
with one of the favourites Emirates Team New Zealand suffering a
shock defeat to Italians Mascalzone Latino in the first regatta
of the day.


Team New Zealand strategist Ray Davies expressed their
frustration at the sitution.


"For sure it would be good to get out there and get into the
racing," said Davies.


"When you've had a loss the only good way to get over it is to
get back out there and put a win on the board. That's your best
way of recovering as a team, to show yourself and your peers you
can do it again".


But the forecast for the coming days does not look good with
Bernard Simon, weather specialist with French team Areva
predicting more of the same.


"It's the same outlook for the next few days. An easterly to
north-easterly wind is forecast for Sunday. Will it be enough?
Difficult to say because we've been having weak winds, it's hard
to determine if there will be more than 5 or 8 knots," said
Simon.


"We're going to get out of this blocked system little by little.
We're getting out of it gently because the winds are changing
every day but we'll have to wait until the middle of next week,"
he predicted.

