

England fast bowler Simon Jones will play his first competitive
match for nearly a year on Sunday as he steps up his return from
a knee injury.


The 28-year-old was one of the heroes of England's 2005 Ashes-
winning campaign, but he has hardly played for his country since
then and has been out of action since last May.


Now he is ready to return for Glamorgan in a domestic one-day cup
game against Somerset at Taunton.


He had knee surgery in America last year and, after a successful
rehabilitation period, he played in pre-season games against
Sussex and Worcestershire.


Those outings have given him belief that he is ready to return
and he said: "At the moment I'm just looking to play as much as I
can for Glamorgan, but I'm going to look after myself and not
push it too much.


"I'm not going to be stupid and play in every single game. I've
got to ease my way back.


"But the good thing is that I haven't had any aches or pains in
the knee after the games I've had.


"People say to me, 'are you going to come back as good as you
were?' Well we'll have to wait and see but I'm backing myself."


If Jones proves his fitness for Glamorgan he could be in line to
return to England duty for the first Test against West Indies at
Lord's starting on May 17.


However, Jones acknowledges he has no right to walk straight back
into the team. "We'll have to see whether May is too soon, but my
fitness is good and I'm not worried about anything," he said.


"I'm itching to get back in that arena, but as I've said, I've
been out for a while and no one's got the right to get back in
the side. I've got to prove myself again and get games and
wickets under my belt.


"I've got to push on, bowl more overs and play in four-day games
for Glamorgan. Those are the acid tests."

