

A British television journalist and a Kenyan camerawoman have
been arrested for filming a police station in the Nigerian
capital Nairobi, officials said Saturday.


Police sources said Dan Edge, 29, and Susan Kurumba, 27, were
arrested Friday after being caught outside Kileleshwa police
station.


Their colleague Steve Grey and lawyer Harun Ndubi appealed for
their release, saying they had all the necessary documents to
film a documentary on terrorism in the country.


Edge works for Britain's Channel 4 while Kurumba works with
Kenya's Vivid Features.


"We were shocked. Police are now investigating the two with a
possible link to terrorism when indeed they came here to shoot a
documentary film on terrorism and the government's efforts to
fight the vice," Ndubi told reporters.


Grey said they were making a documentary for Channel 4 on the
renditions to Somalia and Ethiopia of hundreds of people who were
arrested by Kenyan police while fleeing fighting between
Ethiopian forces and Somali Islamists.


"It is about the situation in the Horn of Africa and obviously
terrorism is one aspect of it... We will go to Ethiopia and see
the situation there, in Somalia -- it is a broad documentary,"
Grey told reporters.


Police officials refused to discuss the case.


Kenyan authorities have stepped up security after the east
African nation was twice hit by Al-Qaeda linked extremists.


New York-based Human Rights Watch said Kenyan security forces
arrested at least 150 individuals from some 18 different
nationalities at the Liboi and Kiunga border crossing points with
Somalia.


The rights body said the US and other national intelligence
services interrogated several foreign nationals while they were
being detained in Nairobi, where they were denied access to legal
counsel and consular representatives.


Most of the people were transfered to Ethiopian jails.

