

Nigeria are working round the clock on the fitness of Portsmouth
striker Nwankwo Kanu to try to get him fit in time for Saturday's
African Nations Cup qualifying tie against Uganda in Abeokuta,
near Lagos.


Team spokesman Danusa Ocholi said everything is now being done by
the medical team to ensure a thigh complaint does not stop Kanu
from the decisive Group Three game.


"Kanu is still doubtful for the game but everything is being done
to get him fit. One of the things was to excuse him from training
yesterday," Ocholi disclosed.


Officials said that should the Portsmouth forward fail to regain
full fitness, Everton defender Joseph Yobo will lead out the
Super Eagles.


Injury has already ruled out top choice goalkeeper Vincent
Enyeama, who suffered a ligament problem while featuring for his
Israeli club Bnei Yehuda.


Meanwhile, Everton's young striker Victor Anichebe could be in
line for his international debut for his native country. Anichebe
has said he prefers to play for Nigeria rather than wait for his
chance with England.


Even though he was not in the final 25-man squad named by German
coach Berti Vogts, Anichebe has been training with the Eagles
ahead of Saturday's encounter.


Vogts though is upbeat Nigeria will beat Uganda in style
Saturday, saying he has been most impressed by the talent in the
squad.


"I'm delighted with the talent in this team after the few days I
worked with them. They are enormously talented and all I have to
do now is to bring my German organisation to make them an even
better team," he said.

