

The UN Security Council on Friday was holding frantic talks to
try to reach consensus on a draft text broadening UN sanctions
against Iran, with Russia offering compromise language on an
amendment calling for a nuclear-free Middle East.


A vote was expected on Saturday.


The 15 council members huddled behing closed doors early Friday
to put the finishing touches to a amended text submitted Thursday
by the text's three European sponsors: Britain, France and
Germany.


They were to meet again later Friday to consider an amendment
requested by Indonesia and Qatar for insertion of a paragraph on
the goal of establishing a "Middle East free from weapons of mass
destruction and all missiles for their delivery" into the draft.


Diplomats said the United States was opposed to the inclusion of
this paragraph.


The Russian delegation, however, offered compromise language
stating that "a solution to the Iranian nuclear issue would
contribute to global non- proliferation efforts, including those
in the Middle East."


"We are going to discuss some amendments raised by Qatar,
Indonesia and South Africa," Qatar's UN Ambassador Nassir
Abdulaziz fal-Nasser. "Hopefully we will be able to reach a
consensus. This afternoon meeting will be very important."


Late Thursday, the Security Council members had finetuned minor
changes made to the text agreed last week by the five veto-
wielding permanent members -- Britain, China, France, Russia and
the United States -- plus Germany.


But South Africa expressed disappointment that its suggestions
for a 90-day suspension of UN sanctions to allow political
negotiations with Tehran, to remove the weapons ban and other
financial sanctions were rejected.


The draft resolution under consideration would ban Tehran from
exporting arms, calls for voluntary trade sanctions and expands a
list of officials and companies targeted for financial and travel
restrictions.

