

The 100th edition of the Milan-San Remo will take place on
Saturday as the riders tackle the king-size 294 kilometres
classic race.


However the cycling season's opening classic has been hit by some
notable absentees including last year's Tour of Italy winner Ivan
Basso and former Pro Tour series winner Danilo Di Luca.


A question mark also hangs over Italian world champion Paolo
Bettini after he revealed he had broken a rib in a nasty fall
during the Tirreno-Adriatico.


Bettini, who won this race in 2003, will have to ride through the
pain barrier if he participates in the 10th Milan-San Remo of his
career, an effort that will be shared by Quick Step team-mate Tom
Boonen who is suffering from a bad back.


Basso, 29, has struggled to recover from a sprained wrist which
he suffered during the Tirreno-Adriatico last Friday while Di
Luca is still experiencing the after-effects of flu.


The longest one-day race of the season, often known as the
sprinter's classic, will be well within the sights of sprint
specialists Oscar Freire and Alessandro Petacchi, who will hope
to repeat their respective 2004 and 2005 winning performances.


Despite the distance, the Milan-San Remo is a relatively easy
ride.


The first climb of the day is the Passo del Turchino, when the
riders climb 24 kilometers up the 532-metre summit before a
relatively flat ride until the Capi hills 50 kilometres from the
finish line.


The Capi are a 30-km succession of small hills. The most famous
and decisive being the Cipressa, the penultimate climb of the
Milan-Sanremo.


If no-one has broken away from the pack at this point it will
most like go down to the wire for the sprinters.


Italian Quick Step rider Filippo Pozzato was last year's winner
claiming victory ahead of compatriot and sprint maestro Petacchi.

