

The Ugandan government and the rebel Lord's Resistance Army on
Friday expressed hope of unblocking stalled talks to end two
decades of insurgency at a key meeting in April.


A day after the UN special envoy Joaquim Chissano briefed the UN
Security Council on the peace process, both sides voiced
readiness to move forward amid concern from the international
community on the fate of the talks.


Ugandan Interior Minister Ruhakana Rugunda said Chissano, who has
been pressing for a quick resumption of the talks, managed to
clinch a mid-April date when he will meet the government and
rebels together.


"We have agreed to have a meeting within the first two weeks of
April and a tentative date of April 13 (for the resumption of the
talks) has been agreed upon," Rugunda told journalists here.


Meanwhile the LRA said it was hopeful the meeting would resolve
stumbling blocks that disrupted the peace process in December.


"We are ready for peace talks and we are hopeful the meeting will
help resolve the areas of disgreement," rebel deputy commander
Vincent Otti told AFP.


The talks in Juba, southern Sudan, stalled in December when the
rebels walked out citing fears for their lives.


They demanded a new venue and new mediators, accusing the
southern Sudanese autonomous government of bias.


"When we meet next month, those are the issues we will discuss,
but it is up to them to see if there will be an agreement. As of
now, there is no movement," Otti said.


In New York on Thursday, the Security Council pressed for
"further progress in the talks and the renewal of the cessation
of hostilities agreement," according to a statement.


The two sides signed a ceasefire in August and renewed it last
December, which raised hopes of an end to a conflict that has
killed tens of thousands and displaced around two million others.

