

The dollar firmed against the euro here Friday on stronger-than-
expected figures on US home sales that eased concerns about the
health of the country's housing market.


The single European currency in late trade was at 1.3295 dollars
after 1.3328 late Thursday in New York.


The dollar was meanwhile trading at 117.95 yen, down from 118.07
on Thursday.


US home sales rose 3.9 percent in February as the struggling real
estate market showed some signs of a rebound, industry data
showed Friday.


The National Association of Realtors (NAR) said existing home
sales improved to an annualized pace of 6.69 million, well ahead
of market expectations of a pace of 6.30 million.


The monthly report also showed signs that lower prices --
following a long boom in the property market that ended last year
-- are starting to stimulate sales.


The median sales price fell 1.3 percent to 212,800 dollars, the
seventh decline in a row.


The property market has been struggling as lending rates have
increased and speculators have pulled out of what had been a
sizzling sector.


But according to analyst Jamie Coleman at Thomson's IFR Markets:
"One thing is clear that was not early this week: the US is not
in danger of sliding headlong into recession.


"Home sales are near a three-year high,  ... employment remains
strong and stocks have recovered much of their losses of recent
weeks.


"A slowdown could clearly come in the months ahead, but a
collapse is extremely unlikely."


The euro was generally stable in Friday trading in the face of
data showing a modest fall consumption in France but a pickup in
Italy.


Eurozone growth remains robust despite signs that it may soon be
peaking, and many analysts say interest rates should rise by
another quarter point in coming months if economic data comes in
as expected.


Next week attention will turn to the Ifo survey of German
business confidence on Tuesday and euro area inflation data
Friday.


In Britian the pound remained firm on momentum from strong data
on Thursday.


Retail sales rose more than expected in February, making up for
January's weakness, while manufacturing orders advanced at the
strongest pace in 12 years.


The euro was changing hands at 1.3295 dollars, against 1.3328
dollars on Thursday, 156.81 yen (157.39), 0.6776 pounds (0.6787)
and 1.6189 Swiss francs (1.6187).


The dollar stood at 117.95 yen (118.07) and 1.2178 Swiss francs
(1.2143).


The pound was being traded at 1.9623 dollars (1.9643).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold dropped to 656.20
dollars per ounce, from 663 dollars late on Thursday.

