

The number of Iraqis fleeing to industralised countries has
surged by 77 percent in the space of a year, countering the
global trend of a decline in asylum seekers, the UN refugee
agency said Friday.


The accelerating flight of Iraqis stood in stark contrast with
the overall fall in the number of people seeking refuge in
industralised countries in 2006, marking the fifth straight year
of decline, the office of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees
said in a statement.


Some 300,000 asylum applications were submitted in the 50
industralised countries surveyed last year, 10 percent fewer than
in 2005 and less than half the number recorded five years ago,
according to the provisional data.


The number of asylum seekers in Europe as a whole, as well as in
the European Union, reached their lowest levels for two decades,
the UNHCR said.


However, asylum applications by Iraqis in industrialised
countries rose from 12,500 in 2005 to 22,200 in 2006.


"The increase last year was particualrly significant in the last
quarter of the year when 8,100 Iraqis applied for asylum in 36
countries that rpovide monthly data," UNHCR spokesman Ron Redmond
told journalists.


"This reflects the growing sectarian violence in Iraq," he added.


The figures for Iraqi asylum seekers still remain well below the
peak level of about 50,000 reached during 2002.


Sweden was the favourite destination for Iraqis in industrialised
countries last year, with some 9,000 applications, followed by
the Netherlands (2,800), Germany (2,100) and Greece (1,400).


Iraqis were the largest single national group of asylum seekers,
followed by Chinese (18,300), people from Russia (15,700), Serbia
and Montenegro (15,700) and Turkey (8.700).


"We need to keep in mind that the vast majority of uprooted
Iraqis remain in the region," Redmond said.


An estimated 1.9 million Iraqis are displaced inside the country
and some two million are outside their strife-torn homeland --
mainly in Syria and Jordan, which are not part of the 50
industralised countries.


The refugee agency said the overall drop in asylum applications
was attributable to a combination of improved conditions in some
countries of origin and more restrictions in destination
countries that are discouraging applications.


"UNHCR has repeatedly expressed concern at the drive to keep the
number of asylum seekers as low as possible," Redmond said.


The United States was the most favoured asylum destination in
2006, with 51,510 applications, an increase of 6.0 percent over
the previous year.


It was followed by France, where the total decreased by 38
percent to 30,690, Britain (27,850 - down 10 percent) and Sweden
(24,320 - up by 38 percent).


Redmond underlined that the density of asylum seekers relative to
the local population in the United States was far lower than in
Europe.


The UNHCR is organising an international conference in Geneva on
April 17-18 to examine how to deal with the Iraqi exodus.

