

A trust has been created to fund a number of projects, including
a training academy, in memory of murdered Pakistani cricket coach
Bob Woolmer, South African organisers said Friday.


Money raised would go towards the erection of a Bob Woolmer
Cricket Academy outside Nelspruit in the eastern Mpumalanga
province, and to ensure his book on the art and science of
cricket gets published, the trust fund said in a statement.


The international cricket world was reeling Friday from the news
that the popular coach had been strangled, amid rumours of
involvement by match-fixing gangs.


Woolmer's widow Gill said Thursday it was possible an irate fan
had murdered her husband, but had not commented since
confirmation that he had been strangled.


A family friend who asked not to be named told AFP: "The family
is not speaking to the media at the moment but might issue a
statement later."


The benefit of the academy would be for cricket all over the
world, as well as South Africa's under-privileged communities.


"The Academy is for the benefit of world cricket not just South
African cricket and will be run as a not-for-profit organisation.


"One of the objectives ... is that children from underprivileged
communities in South Africa will benefit in both a sporting and
academic way."


The trust would also aim to provide financial security for his
widow Gill, and sons Dale and Russell.


"Their breadwinner has died and they need to be looked after in
the future."


Former South African cricketer Jonty Rhodes would be one of the
trustees.


"Bob Woolmer was one of world cricket's most recognisable
characters and servants of the game," read the statement.


"Being one of the top coaches in world cricket did not stop him
from sharing his skills and philosophies with the emerging
cricketers of the world."

