

The British warship HMS Cornwall, on which 15 sailors who were
seized by the Iranian navy on Friday were based, is currently on
patrol in the Gulf as part of US-led coalition operations in
Iraq.


A Type 22 frigate based in Plymouth, south-west England, it was
launched in October 1985 and entered service in 1988.


Previous ships to carry the Cornwall name date back to the mid-
17th century.


The current vessel is 148.1 metres (485.9 feet) long, can carry
up to 301 crew and travels at speeds of 30 knots.


Cornwall is the current base for Combined Task Force (CTF) 158,
the maritime contribution to the US-led Operation Iraqi Freedom.


CTF 158 brings together US, British and Australian troops with
the Iraqi Navy and Iraqi Marines to protect Iraq's oil
infrastructure in the North Arabian Gulf and carry out maritime
security operations.


It is also helping to boost the capability of the Iraqi navy and
marines ahead of the future withdrawal of coalition troops.


According to Britain's defence ministry, "CTF 158's mission is to
set conditions for security in the North Arabian Gulf in order to
facilitate Iraqi economic development and the transition to self-
maintenance of the integrity of Iraqi territorial waters and
critical energy infrastructure".


It is designed to provide protection from "terrorist
organisations who consider Iraq a convenient 'battleground' on
which to defeat or humiliate the West", Iraqi insurgents opposed
to the coalition and "maritime criminals".


That includes regular round-the-clock patrols. As well as
training to protect merchant vessels using the waterway, Iraqis
are also being schooled in maritime law enforcement.

