

Bayern Munich coach Ottmar Hitzfeld expressed his astonishment on
Friday after the German giants' veteran goalkeeper Oliver Kahn
was hit with a one-match suspension by UEFA for 'improper
conduct'.


Kahn was also fined 20,000 Swiss francs (12,346 euros) on
Thursday for his part in a heated argument with doping control
officials following Bayern's 2-1 win over Real Madrid in Munich
two weeks ago.


The ban keeps the veteran out of his club's Champions League
quarter-final first leg away to AC Milan on April 3, but the
German giants are waiting for UEFA's written explanation before
deciding whether to appeal.


"I have never heard of a player being hit with such a heavy
penalty for such an offence," said Hitzfeld.


A decision is expected to be taken on Monday.


There is some hope for Bayern after UEFA reduced the two-match
suspension handed to midfielder Mark Van Bommel after he was sent
off against Real for a second yellow card.


"We have some hope that we will be successful, like in the case
of Van Bommel, in getting some leniency from UEFA," added
Hitzfeld.


Kahn and Lucio were both brought before a UEFA disciplinary
committee on Thursday following heated exchanges after their
routine urine test dragged on long into the night after the win
over Real.


Kahn admitted "I was wrong to let my frustrations get the better
of me, I am truly sorry" but did not escape suspension, while
Brazilian defender Lucio, who was also accused of "breaching
basic rules of good conduct" was fined 10,000 Swiss francs (6,176
euros).


But should Kahn's suspension be upheld, reserve Michael Rensing
will be in goal for the first leg, before Kahn returns for the
home leg at the Allianz Arena.

