

Iran was silent on Friday over reports that Iranian naval vessels
had arrested 15 British sailors in Gulf waters earlier in the
day.


Officials could not be reached for comment during what are
Iranian New Year celebrations, and state media made no reference
to the matter.


The British defence ministry said 15 British naval personnel,
engaged in routine boarding operations of merchant shipping in
Iraqi territorial waters, had been seized on Friday morning.


British Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett has summoned the
Iranian ambassador, demanding the sailors' immediate release and
urgent clarification from Tehran.


The incident comes amid mounting tension between the Islamic
republic and the West over Tehran's nuclear programme, which the
West fears could be used to develop atomic weapons.


The Iranian navy launched military exercises in the Gulf on
Thursday in a display of the Islamic republic's "power and
defence capability."


Iran accuses British forces based across the border in southern
Iraq of backing separatist ethnic Arabs in Iran's oil-rich
Khuzestan province. London denies the allegation.


In June 2004, six British marines and two sailors were detained
for three days in Iran after a routine operation. They were
paraded blindfold on television and forced to apologise for their
"mistake."


On that occasion Iran insisted that the boats -- which it has not
yet returned -- were intercepted only after they entered Iranian
waters on the Shatt al-Arab, the waterway that divides Iran and
Iraq.

