

The United Nations expressed "regret" Friday over Romania's
decision to withdraw from Kosovo a group of police being probed
over the shooting deaths of two protestors.


The UN mission in Kosovo (UNMIK) made the statement two days
after Romania pulled 75 of its police officers out of the UN-
administered Serbian province in spite of the ongoing
investigation into the incident last month.


"The Romanian authorities did not agree with the request of UN
headquarters that 11 of these officers remain in Kosovo until
April 6 to continue cooperation with the investigation," it said.


"UNMIK expects that the Romanian authorities will adhere to their
obligations and continue to cooperate and assist fully with the
ongoing investigation.


"Such cooperation must include an assurance that any of the
Romanian police officers who have left the mission area shall be
made available as requested for the purposes of the investigation
on the territory of Kosovo."


Romanian police were in charge when international police shot
rubber bullets at some 2,000 ethnic Albanian protestors after
violence broke out during the demonstration outside Pristina's
parliament building.


Two of the protestors suffered fatal head wounds, according to
official autopsies.


The protest was organised by an extremist Kosovo Albanian youth
movement called "Self-determination," which opposes any form of
negotiations with Serbia over Kosovo's future status.


Kosovo is a southern province of Serbia that has been run by the
United Nations and NATO since the end of its 1998-1999 war
between Belgrade-controlled forces and separatist ethnic Albanian
guerillas.

