

Wall Street shares traded modestly higher at midday Friday,
reversing early losses after a better-than-expected report on US
home sales eased fears of economic weakness ahead.


At 1610 GMT, the Dow Jones Industrial Average traded up 33.65
points (0.27 percent) at 12,494.79.


The Nasdaq composite edged up 2.01 points (0.08 percent) to
2,453.75 while the broad-market Standard and Poor's 500 rose 3.47
points (0.24 percent) to 1,438.01.


Wall Street had a generally positive reaction to the latest news
on the housing front, which has been the weakest sector of the US
economy.


The National Association of Realtors reported US home sales rose
3.9 percent in February as the struggling real estate market
showed some signs of a rebound.


The annualized pace of 6.69 million was well ahead of market
expectations of a pace of 6.30 million. But median home prices
fell.


"The better-than-expected report provides some hope that a bottom
is close in the US housing correction -- at least on the sales
front," said Sal Guatieri, economist at BMO Capital Markets.


"That said, the report is just one in a sea of red housing
indicators of late, and home prices are likely to ease further as
the correction unfolds."


Some analysts said the market appears overbought after the strong
gains from earlier this week, fueled by a market-friendly message
from the Federal Reserve.


"The stock market looks a little extended and could be ripe for a
very small pullback," said Fred Dickson at DA Davidson.


"We are entering earnings warning season. With the (Fed) sending
a message that current economic growth is mixed, some portfolio
managers may show some restraint on the buy-side until we get
well into earnings season."


Among stocks in focus, Palm climbed 28 cents to 18.02 dollars
after the maker of smartphones and similar devices posted better-
than-expected earnings, even though it declined to comment on
speculation about a takeover deal.


Also on the tech front, 3Com added eight cents to 3.87 as the
network equipment group reported a narrower-than-expected loss.


Sporting goods maker Nike lost 1.91 to 106.69 as investors locked
in gains after the group reported an eight percent rise in
profits.


Citigroup fell seven cents to 51.77 after a report that the US
banking giant might be mulling a bid for Dutch-based ABN Amro.


Bonds drifted lower, with the yield on the 10-year US Treasury
bond rising to 4.599 percent from 4.589 percent Thursday and that
on the 30-year bond at 4.785 percent from 4.782 percent. Bond
yields and prices move in opposite directions.

