

Lewis Moody has made a speedy recovery from injury in time to
play for Leicester Tigers in their Cup semi-final clash with Sale
Sharks at Cardiff's Millennium stadium on Saturday.


England flanker Moody missed the entire Six Nations tournament
after undergoing shoulder surgery but he has made a quick
recovery and his club boss Pat Howard is delighted to have him
back in the fold.


"He looks in great nick," said Howard. "The medical staff have
done a fantastic job in getting him ready.


"We are happy to have him in contention and happy to have the
back row together again that has played such a major part in our
European campaign."


Leicester, still on course for a trophy treble of Cup, European
Cup and Guinness Premiership title, are further strengthened by
returning England quartet Martin Corry, Harry Ellis, George
Chuter and Louis Deacon.


Corry reverts to number eight following two second-row
appearances for England, but while Ellis, Chuter and Deacon also
start, England prop Julian White sits out the Cardiff clash.


"Julian White has been carrying a bit of an injury, but we are
happy to welcome the guys back, not just the England players, but
also Geordan Murphy (of Ireland) who has been away too," added
Howard.


Sale are desperate for victory to keep alive their hopes of
qualifying for next season's European Cup.


Mark Cueto, England's full-back against Wales six days ago, is
their only injury concern due to a slight calf strain.


Sharks head coach Kingsley Jones said: "We have trained well all
week, and it was good to see the return of the international
players after the Six Nations.


"We are expecting a tough game, but we believe we have selected a
side that can win tomorrow (Saturday) and give us an opportunity
to secure a European Cup place for next season."

