

Seven-time world champion Valentino Rossi vowed to hit back at
championship leader Casey Stoner at the Spanish Grand Prix here
on Saturday.


Australian Stoner, who rides a Ducati, edged out Italian Rossi,
on a Yamaha, in a see-saw battle at the first Grand Prix of the
season in Qatar two weeks ago.


But Jerez is a circuit where Rossi has already emerged victorious
six times during his glory-laden career.


"It's one of my favourite circuits, I've riden well there several
times and it's always a lot of fun, there's a fantastic
atmosphere here," said Rossi.


Before the season started, Rossi set the fastest time in testing
at the circuit.


And the 28-year-old is confident that the advantages Stoner
enjoyed over him in Qatar will be negated in Jerez.


Stoner had a 15km/h top speed advantage in Qatar where his
Bridgestone tyres were more effective than Rossi's Michelins.
Such was the speed difference that Stoner easily overtook Rossi
down the long straights.


"Jerez suits my bike more," said Rossi. "We're still lacking in a
bit of power but we're working hard on that.


"It shouldn't be a big problem here because the circuit is very
different."


It's not just the 21-year-old Stoner that Rossi needs to beat
here, in front of an estimated 135,000 spectators. World champion
Nicky Hayden of the United States, Spain's Dani Pedrosa and
Italian Loris Capirossi should all be challenging as well.


Hayden is particularly determined to improve on his eighth placed
finish in Qatar.


"My result in Qatar was disappointing but the championship is
long and I'm determined to put myself back in the mix in Jerez,"
said the 25-year-old.


"I like this circuit, there's several tight corners and the
straight lines are not so important. You have to find the right
rhythm to set fast times. And the passion of the fans is
amazing."

