

German captain Michael Ballack insisted on Friday his side are
only thinking of victory over the Czech Republic in Prague on
Saturday to make sure they stay top of their Euro 2008 qualifying
group.


Germany top Group D ahead of the Czechs only by virtue of goal
difference, and with both sides on ten points there is no margin
for error in the race to guarantee qualification.


A win in Prague would put the Germans in the driving seat, but
with Bundesliga top-scorer Mario Gomez of VfB Stuttgart out with
a knee injury, Chelsea midfielder Ballack says his deputy -
Bayern Munich's Lukas Podolski - is a more than adequate
substitute.


"We have to take any injuries in our stride, a striker has
dropped out, but the guys who will play can step in seamlessly.
We respect our opponents, but we are just focused on getting the
win," said the 30-year-old German captain.


Even without Gomez, the Germans have an abundance of talented
strikers to choose from with 21-year-old Podolski, voted the best
young player of the 2006 World Cup, boasting an impressive record
of 22 goals in 37 internationals.


"We'll win because we have the better players," said the
confident Podolski, who will partner Schalke 04's Kevin Kuranyi
up front for the Germans.


"If we win, we will have a bit more breathing space," said
national team manager Oliver Bierhoff, looking forward to the
next two qualifying games against San Marino and Slovakia in
June.


"But if we lose, other teams behind us will be back in it," he
warned.

