

Who's saying what at the World Cup:


"The pathologist report states that Mr. Woolmer's death was due
to asphyxia as a result of manual strangulation."


- Jamaican police spokesman Karl Angell confirming that Pakistan
coach Bob Woolmer, who died on Sunday, had been the victim of
foul play.


"It is imperative that we keep an open mind but I have to say at
this stage it looks as if it may be somebody somehow linked to
him, because clearly he let somebody into his hotel room and it
may be that he knew who that person was."


- Mark Shields, the deputy chief commissioner of the Jamaican
police force, speculating on the likely murderer of Pakistan
coach Bob Woolmer.


"No, there is no suspicion on the Pakistan team. This is
ridiculous."


- Pakistan's outgoing cricket chief Naseem Ashraf saying the
national team were not suspects in the murder of coach Bob
Woolmer.


"What we must all do now is to show how resolute the game is by
proving ourselves strong enough to move on from what has
happened."


- International Cricket Council (ICC) chief executive Malcolm
Speed stressing that the World Cup would go on despite news which
confirmed that Pakistan coach Bob Woolmer had been murdered.


"The Pakistan-Ireland match must have been fixed. The D-Company
(Dawood Ibrahim's gang) may have lots of money at stake. Woolmer
may have got an inkling of the fixing and hence he was killed."


- Notorious Indian gangster Babloo Srivastava suggesting that
India's most wanted man, Dawood Ibrahim - long suspected by
police of being the match-fixing kingpin - may have been behind
Woolmer's murder.

