

Philadelphia Eagles coach Andy Reid returned from a leave of
absence here Friday after spending the past six weeks dealing
with incidents involving his sons and pondering his future.


Reid said he considered leaving for good after 21-year-old son
Britt Reid allegedly pointed a gun at another driver in a January
road rage incident and was arraigned last month on drug and
weapons charges.


"Family obviously is the most important thing in my life," Reid
said. "Walking away, I can't say it doesn't cross your mind. I
knew I needed to take some time to address the issue.


"I needed time to situate some things out and spend time with the
family. I didn't get to that point where I felt it was time to
walk away. I was able to deal with what was most important the
past few weeks.


"You do what you have to do and hit it head on when it deals with
family."


Saying he is excited to be back and strengthened as a coach and
parent, Reid gave few specifics about the situation that took him
away from a team he guided to the 2005 Super Bowl.


"I won't be able to comment on anything even if I chose to. I'd
like you to respect that for right now. I just can't address the
other matters," Reid said.


"We're doing well. We're working through this."


The Eagles went 10-6 last season, their sixth winning record in
seven years in a run that saw Reid named the National Football
League's Coach of the Year in 2000 and 2002. At 80-48, he is the
all-time winningest Eagles coach.


"Things were still running at a high level here. That enabled me
to do the things I needed to do at home," Reid said. "We've got a
pretty good football team coming back.


"I spent a lot of time with the family but at the same time I
don't think I shortchanged the process. You focus in on the job
at hand and take care of business. That's why I'm back here."

