

Northern Ireland's next generation must be delivered from the
tyranny of the past by a deal on a power-sharing government next
week, Irish Foreign Minister Dermot Ahern said on Friday.


"We are the generation who ended the chaos, who stopped the war,"
Ahern told a Chamber of Commerce lunch in the border town of
Dundalk.


"We can hand prosperity on to the next generation. We can deliver
them from a tyranny of the past. We can give them a future
without conflict."


He urged the leaders of the British-run province's two largest
parties -- the Protestant Democratic Unionists (DUP) and Catholic
Sinn Fein -- to reach agreement on forming a power-sharing
executive by the Monday deadline.


"We're almost there - Let's finish the job. Let's secure the
peace. That's what Monday is about."


Ahern described DUP leader Ian Paisley as a tough and formidable
negotiator but said he was also a realist who wants to secure a
better future for the next generation.


"That's what all this is about -- saving the next generation from
the fate which befell ours," he said.


Ahern said partnership between the British and Irish governments
has been the backbone of the peace process from its outset.


"That partnership will continue and intensify if the political
parties cannot form a government next week."


If the parties cannot agree on forming a power-sharing executive
by midnight Monday, then Northern Ireland's assembly will be
axed, an Anglo-Irish financial aid package dropped and an
indefinite rule from London with input from Dublin.


The DUP topped the March 7 Northern Ireland Assembly polls, with
Sinn Fein -- the former political wing of the Irish Republican
Army (IRA) -- coming second.


The British and Irish governments want to restore self-rule in
Belfast nearly a decade after the 1998 Good Friday Agreeement,
which largely ended three decades of bloody Troubles between
Catholics and Protestants.

