

Belgium's foreign minister met with his counterpart from the new
Palestinian unity government on Friday and said the cabinet led
by radical Hamas should be judged by its actions.


"It is very important to see what this government of national
unity is going to do in practice," Karel De Gucht said at a joint
press conference with Ziad Abu Amr, an independent in the new
Palestinian cabinet sworn in on Saturday.


"It can't be denied that there are hints in the programme of the
government toward meeting the criteria of the Quartet" for
Mideast peace, said De Gucht, the latest Western official to meet
with a non-Hamas member of the new cabinet.


"The release of (Gilad) Shalit is very important," he said,
referring to an Israeli soldier captured nine months ago by Gaza-
based militants, including the armed wing of Hamas.


De Gucht also said it was important for Palestinian rocket
attacks on Israel to end.


Earlier this week the Quartet -- the European Union, Russia, the
United Nations and the United States -- said that it would not
recognise the new Palestinian coalition uniting radical Hamas
with Western-backed moderates, as it has not agreed to abide by
three previously imposed conditions.


The conditions -- renouncing violence, recognising Israel and
agreeing to abide by past peace deals -- were imposed when the
Quartet slapped an embargo on direct aid to the Palestinian
government a year ago, when Hamas formed a cabinet alone after
sweeping parliamentary elections.


Hamas is considered a terror group in the EU and the US.


The Palestinians formed their new unity government hoping it
would put an end to months of deadly factional violence and lead
the West to lift the aid ban.


While the Quartet has refused to unfreeze the aid at this time,
it said that the new cabinet -- made up of the Islamist Hamas,
the secular Fatah of president Mahmud Abbas and moderates widely
respected in the West -- would be judged on its deeds.

