

A French judge has banned the head of oil group Total, Christophe
de Margerie, from meeting former Iranian president Ali Akbar
Hashemi Rafsanjani and his son, a judicial source said on Friday.


Margerie is being probed over alleged bribes for a contract in
Iran in 1997, and sources close to the matter said on Friday that
investigators suspected the secretary to Rafsanjani's son of
being the alleged middleman.


The sources said that this connection had emerged as a result of
the questioning on Wednesday of another executive, or former
executive, at Total.


This executive had identified the secretary as an Iranian
resident in Switzerland who allegedly held a Swiss account in
which suspect funds had been found.


Investigators are interested in two accounts in Switzerland into
which payments of nearly 100 million Swiss francs (60 million
euros, 80 million dollars) were paid.


Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani was president of Iran from 1989 to 1997.


The contract for the off-shore project involved in the
allegations, known as South Pars, was signed in 1997.


The name of his son, Mehdi Hashemi Rafsanjani, came to the
attention of the investigating magistrate, Philippe Courroye, as
a result of a probe by Norwegian authorities into Norwegian
national oil company Statoil.


The magistrate placed Margerie under formal investigation late on
Thursday on suspicion he had paid bribes to win the contract.


The judicial control order also banned the Total chief from
meeting several other leading Iranian figures, the source said.


However, Margerie is free to fulfil his function as the chief
executive of Total, one of the biggest French companies and a
giant in the oil industry.


Also detained for questioning on Wednesday, but then released
without further action, were: finance director Robert Castaigne,
the head of gas operations Philippe Boisseau, the former Total
executive responsible for the South Pars project Michel Naylies,
and a former executive Patrick Rambaud.

