

World football's governing body FIFA said Friday it had paid back
111 million euros (148 million dollars) to the German organisers
of the World Cup in 2006 after racking up a big profit on the
event.


FIFA said it retained 45 million of the 156 million euro profit
on the 2006 World Cup, fuelling an "exceptional" year for its own
finances.


"The World Cup in Germany was a wonderful, wonderful event, but
it has also been economically a success," FIFA General Secretary
Urs Linsi told journalists.


FIFA, a non-profit organisation under Swiss law, made a surplus
of 303 million Swiss francs (250 million dollars, 187 million
euros) on its overall business in 2006, raising its equity
reserves to 752 million Swiss francs.


"FIFA is not rich, but we have now created a comfortable position
for ourselves," said governing body chief Sepp Blatter.


FIFA has been turning its back in recent years on massive
financial problems in 2001-2002, when its contracted marketing
and television rights partners collapsed.


That financial trouble contributed a short-lived challenge to
Blatter's presidency and internal tensions that almost ripped
world football apart.


"Only a few years ago, FIFA was being criticised for its
financial situation. Today, we have proved that the facts are
somewhat different," Blatter said Friday.


Earlier this month, a Swiss prosecutor issued fraud charges
against executives at sports marketing firm ISMM/ISL, FIFA's
bankrupt former partner.


No FIFA officials were among those charged.


Football's governing body was one of the original plaintiffs
against ISM/ISL but its headquarters, including Blatter's office,
were searched and documents were seized in November 2005 by
investigators probing the collapse.


FIFA protested at the search.


A financial boost for FIFA's reserves in a World Cup year is
essential to keep football development projects and preparations
for the next finals four years later on track.

