

Extra police and paramilitary forces will patrol the streets of
Algerian cities after two Al-Qaeda suicide bomb attacks that
killed at least 33 people, Interior Minister Nouredine Zerhouni
said Thursday.


"The group that carried out these attacks is isolated and its
membership has been reduced," Zerhouni told reporters during a
tour of hospitals where victims of Wednesday's attacks were
taken.


The minister said security precautions in the country were
"correct" but added that "the number of gendarmes and police in
our cities will be increased."


The minister did not give numbers but said the extra security
measures had been agreed at a crisis cabinet meeting held late
Wednesday by President Abdelaziz Bouteflika.


The attacks targetted the government headquarters and a police
station on the main road to Algiers airport.


The bombings were claimed by Al-Qaeda's branch in North Africa,
formerly known as the Salafist Group for Preaching and Combat
(GSPC), which published photographs of what it said were the
three bombers on the Internet.


"Whatever the name of the group, Al-Qaeda or GSPC, it doesn't
matter," said the minister.


"The attacks signify that it is one of the last acts of people
who do not want the state to function normally."


Zerhouni said the "neutralisation" of Abdelamalek Droukdel, the
head of the former GSPC, "who was responsible for this operation
may take weeks or years ... and it will depend on our ability to
remain vigilant because the Algerian people are used to peace."


The minister said Algeria was "on the right path" to wiping out
the extremist groups.


Operations by the army and security services in recent months had
"put out of action a few hundred people active in terrorism, who
have been killed, imprisoned or have given themselves up," he
added.

