

A probe into the US student loan industry has resulted in an out-
of-court settlement with a major lender, but more questions of
kickbacks and "conflicts of interest" are being probed, officials
said.


New York state Attorney General Andrew Cuomo said Wednesday his
office had brokered a settlement with Sallie Mae, America's
largest student lender with a national loan portfolio of over 142
billion dollars, under which the lender agreed to improve its
practices.


The loan giant, originally chartered by the government but now a
private entity, voluntarily agreed to adopt a new code of conduct
on student lending and will contribute two million dollars to a
special fund that will help university-bound students find out
more about loan options.


US banking titan Citigroup, which manages about 34 billion
dollars in student loans, made a voluntary commitment last week
regarding its practices and also offered two million dollars to
the special fund.


Cuomo's office says the expanding investigation has discovered
examples of "financial kickbacks" to universities related to the
volume of loans they directed to a lender, as well as finding
that some lenders picked up the tab for pricey trips by
university officials to "exotic locations" including the
Caribbean.


The New York state attorney general says some lenders also gave
undisclosed gifts to university officials and that some colleges
even allowed lenders to staff university phone banks.


The ongoing probe comes after financial lenders have been
criticized by congressional lawmakers for aggressively marketing
credit cards to students and Americans on low incomes, and amid
fears of "predatory lending" in the mortgage market.


Sallie Mae said in a statement after the settlement that it "has
cooperated with this inquiry since its inception, and, as the
industry leader, we have been confident throughout that our
policies and procedures would stand tall."

