

More than seven million sharks and skates are killed every year
as an unintended consequence of longline fishing off the west
coasts of South Africa, Namibia and Angola, a report by
environmental group WWF said Thursday.


The practice also claims some 34,000 seabirds and 4,200 sea
turtles a year in the area known as the Benguela Ecosystem,
according to the report compiled in association with conservation
body BirdLife.


"The majority of albatross and sea turtle species and many shark
species are listed as threatened with extinction by the IUCN
(World Conservation Union), with fisheries impacts being cited as
a major cause," said a statement released in Cape Town.


The creatures get caught on baited hooks put out on long lines by
fishing boats.


"The report shows us that the bycatch is substantial, it is a
huge concern," Samantha Petersen, manager of the BirdLife and WWF
Responsible Fisheries Programme said at the launch.


"But there is a lot of will to resolve the issue and there are
win-win solutions."


These included the use of bird-scaring lines -- scarecrow-like
ropes cast alongside fishing lines to stop albatrosses and other
seabirds from diving onto baited hooks set by fishing vessels.


The use of such lines was compulsory in South Africa, but
compliance was low, Petersen said.


WWF Sanlam Marine Programme manager Aaniyah Omardien said such
measures not only helped preserve fragile ecosystems, but also
benefited fishermen by saving time on unhooking unintended
catches, reducing damage to fishing gear and minimising bait
loss.


"It is better for everybody if we can succeed in reducing
bycatch," she said.


No mitigation measures were yet in place other than for birds,
but experts were examining special gadgets like hooks that cannot
be swallowed by turtles and magnets that repel sharks from
fishing lines.

