

Iran is still in the early stages of creating a plant to enrich
uranium, the chief of the UN atomic watchdog said on Thursday,
adding that fears over its nuclear programme arose over what the
uranium would be used for.


"Iran is still at an early stage of building a plant to enrich
unranium... There is no fear caused by Iran's uranium enrichment
(in itself), but fears arise from the purpose of this
enrichment," the International Atomic Energy Agency's Mohamed
ElBaradei told reporters.


"Iran is pressing ahead with building the Natanz reactor to have
54,000 centrifuges to enrich uranium. Now it is still at the
hundreds stage," he said in what appeared to be a downplaying of
Iran's progress.


Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad announced this week that
the Islamic republic's controversial uranium enrichment work had
reached an "industrial scale."


But Russia, which is building Iran's first nuclear power plant,
as well as other nations have cast doubts on the accuracy of his
statement.


Iran did not give figures to back Monday's announcement that the
nuclear drive had entered an industrial phase, and it is not
clear exactly how many uranium- enriching centrifuges it had
installed.


Uranium enrichment is the key sticking point in the standoff
between Iran and the West, because as well as producing nuclear
fuel the process in highly extended form can also make the
fissile core for an atomic bomb.


Iran says its nuclear drive is solely aimed at generating energy
and that it does not aspire to nuclear weapons.

