

Pakistan and Russia agreed on Thursday to combat drug trafficking
and boost cooperation in the fields of science, education and
culture, officials said.


The agreements were signed after visiting Russian Prime Minister
Mikhail Fradkov held talks with his Pakistani counterpart Shaukat
Aziz aimed at enhancing economic ties between the two countries.


The two countries signed an agreement for cooperation in
"combating illicit trafficking of narcotics and psychotropic
substances," an official statement said.


They also agreed to increase cooperation and exchanges of experts
in culture, science and education, especially between women's
organisations in both countries, it said.


Fradkov, who is the first Russian prime minister to visit
Pakistan, flew into Islamabad late Wednesday on a three-day trip.
His visit follows President Pervez Musharraf's trip to Russia in
February 2003.


The Russian premier is also due to call on Musharraf and meet
with business leaders in Pakistan.


"The emphasis during the visit would be on establishing a
substantive economic agenda to the mutual benefit of both
countries," a foreign ministry statement earlier said.


Bilateral trade presently stands at 520 million dollars, which is
heavily in favour of Russia.


The Pakistani foreign ministry, however, said "good prospects
exist" for collaboration between Pakistan and Russia in oil and
gas and the construction of coal, thermal and hydroelectric power
plants.


"The two countries are committed to establishing a strong
relationship based on solid foundations," it said.


Pakistan and the Soviet Union were on opposite sides in the Cold
War, particularly during the 1979-1989 Soviet occupation of
Afghanistan, when Islamabad helped channel aid to Afghan
"mujahedin" fighters.

