

The Pentagon has launched a criminal investigation into an
incident last month in which US marines allegedly opened fire on
a crowd of Afghan civilians, officials said Thursday.


The March 4 incident was sparked when a suicide bomber ambushed a
five-vehicle convoy carrying a US Marine Corps special operations
unit on a busy highway between the eastern city of Jalalabad and
the Pakistan border.


Witnesses said the marines fired indiscriminately on a crowd of
civilians. The marines insisted they only opened fire after
coming under attack from automatic weapons.


At least eight civilians were killed and 35 wounded, although the
Afghan government said 10 Afghans were killed and 25 wounded "as
a result of return fire."


The US officer in charge of the investigation "thought there were
reasons" why he should pass on the case to the Navy's criminal
investigative unit, said Lieutenant Colonel Lou Leto, a spokesman
for the US Central Command, in charge of US military operations
in Iraq and Afghanistan.


The deaths sparked angry protests with drew hundreds of people
converging on the the site of the attack, chanting "Death to
America" and "Death to (Afghan President Hamid) Karzai."


Two weeks after the incident, the marine unit involved in the
shooting was ordered out of Afghanistan.


Photographers and cameramen working for international news
organizations said their pictures and video of the aftermath of
the attack were deleted by US forces.


The US military said the images were deleted "to protect the
integrity" of the investigation.


"We deeply regret the loss of life and casualties that resulted
from the (suicide car bomb) attack and the actions that
followed," Leto said in a statement.


"We will work to prevent similar events from occurring in the
future, and we pledge our continued efforts to support ...
Afghanistan in the fight against their enemies," he added.

