

The euro was buoyed Thursday in the wake of comments by European
Central Bank president Jean-Claude Trichet that signaled the
ECB's next interest rate rise would likely come in June.


The single European currency spiked to 1.3503 dollars -- the
euro's highest level since January 3 2005.


In late trades, the euro stood at 1.3486 dollars, up from 1.3428
dollars in New York late on Wednesday.


The dollar traded for 119.03 yen, down from 119.34 on Wednesday.


In Frankfurt, the ECB left its benchmark "refi" refinancing rate
unchanged Thursday at 3.75 percent, as expected.


Trichet subsequently said the bank would continue to monitor
eurozone inflation risks "very closely" and reiterated that
monetary policy was currently "on the accommodative side".


Crucially, he did not use the word "vigilance", a code word that
generally signals a rate hike in the following meeting, said an
assessment from economists at Bear Stearns.


"A rate hike won't come in May, as Trichet refused to describe
the ECB as 'vigilant' with respect to price risks, but a June
hike is still looking a good - if not sure -- bet," said the Bear
Stearns statement.


The market had been broadly expecting the next hike to come in
June, but there was some speculation in the run-up to Thursday's
announcement that rate-setters could opt for a move in May.


The key question facing the market now was whether the eurozone's
key interest rate would peak at 4.0 percent.


"We think it will but it still seems likely that the bank will
want to keep its options open later on in the summer rather than
slam the door shut on further hikes," the Bear Stearns assessment
said.


The euro remained just off its all-time highs against the yen and
the Swiss franc, and two-year highs against the dollar, following
Trichet's comments.


The yen meanwhile was weak across the board, and could become a
topic of discussion at this weekend's meeting of the Group of
Seven (G7) countries in Washington.


Elsewhere, the pound was higher against the dollar but fell
against the euro in the face of strong gains in the single
currency along with the absence of any market-moving news from
Britain.


Weaker-than-expected trade data and the BCC survey of
manufacturing and services sector activity released Thursday did
little to alter expectations of a May interest rate hike by the
Bank of England.


The euro was changing hands at 1.3486 dollars, against 1.3428
dollars late on Wednesday, 160.48 yen (160.27), 0.6819 pounds
(0.6796) and 1.6407 Swiss francs (1.6395).


The dollar stood at 119.03 yen (119.34) and 1.2167 Swiss francs
(1.2207).


The pound was being traded at 1.9773 dollars (1.9752).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold eased back to
677.25 dollars per ounce, from 678.20 dollars late on Wednesday.

