

A leading Indonesian human rights activist murdered while
travelling to the Netherlands was poisoned during a transit stop
in Singapore, police said Thursday.


Munir Said Thalib consumed deadly arsenic at Singapore's Changi
airport before dying on his connecting flight in September 2004,
Chief Detective Bambang Hendarso Danuri said citing new
information.


"We are certain that the premeditated murder took place there,"
Danuri said. He said a witness had seen Munir with another person
at the airport but declined to give further details.


Munir made powerful enemies through his campaigning during the
rule of Indonesian dictator Suharto. He was 38 when he died on
the flight operated by Indonesia's flag-carrier Garuda.


An off-duty Garuda pilot on the plane was accused of lacing
Munir's drink with poison. He was the only person jailed for the
crime, but his conviction was later overturned.


The pilot, Pollycarpus Priyanto, allegedly had links to
Indonesia's powerful intelligence agency.


Police had re-enacted the poisoning in Changi in cooperation with
Singaporean police, Danuri said, and have questioned dozens of
witnesses.


They will submit their evidence to Indonesian prosecutors on
Friday in a bid to reopen the Munir case, and two other Garuda
executives are likely to be charged for their involvement in the
crime, he said.


Rights activists say the government and the police have been slow
to investigate Munir's murder because spies were involved.


The United Nation's special rapporteur on extrajudicial killings
has filed a report on Munir's murder to the UN High Commissioner
for Human Rights.

