

Sweden plans to introduce a permanent road toll for Stockholm in
August in a bid to reduce congestion, the government said on
Thursday as it presented a bill to parliament.


The issue is to be debated in parliament on June 14. The bill is
broadly supported and is almost certain to be passed.


Revenue from the scheme would be used for road improvement in the
Stockholm area.


The toll was operated on a trial basis last year and exceeded
expectations of a 10 to 15 percent reduction of cars entering and
leaving the capital, registering instead an average fall of
between 20 and 25 percent.


Stockholm residents voted to adopt the congestion charge in a
referendum held in September 2006 in conjunction with the
country's legislative elections.


If adopted, the Swedish capital would join other cities such as
London, Rome and Singapore which have already introduced toll
schemes.


Under the proposal all vehicles except buses and foreign-
registered cars that enter or exit central Stockholm on weekdays
during the peak hours of 6:30 am to 6:29 pm will be required to
pay a fee.


Electric cars and hybrid vehicles will be exempt from the toll
until 2012.


Motorists will pay between 10 and 20 kronor (1.50 and 3.00
dollars, 1.10 and 2.20 euros), depending on the time of day, with
an upper limit of 60 kronor a day.


Overhead cameras will register the license plates of cars passing
the toll stations. Motorists can either have the amount
automatically deducted from their bank account or pay a bill in
the mail or by Internet.


The proposal also recommends that fees be suspended every July --
a popular holiday month for Swedes.

