

Banned Basque separatist party Batasuna could stand in next
month's local elections in Spain via a quasi-defunct leftist
party, the Vasco Press news agency reported Thursday.


The Eusko Abertzale Ekintza-Basque Nationalist Action (EAE-ANV)
party has "put forward representatives" to the body which
oversees the registration of electoral lists, a preliminary stage
in putting up candidates, the news agency said.


The strategy has been floated by Basque political circles in
recent weeks as a way for Batasuna to circumvent its ban and
stand in the May 27 local and regional elections, Vasco added.


The EAE-ANV party was founded in 1930 as a result of a split with
the moderate Basque Nationalist Party (PNV), which governs the
Basque country's regional assembly.


But its political activities have been virtually non-inexistent
for several years and, unlike Batasuna, banned since 2003 over
its links to armed Basque separatist group ETA, it faces no such
restriction.


"Regardless of the mask it uses, we will apply the law," Spanish
Interior Minister Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba warned Thursday.


In a separate development, a legal source said Thursday that
Spanish judicial authorities were considering reopening a case
against the Batasuna leader, Arnaldo Otegi, after a court had
dropped the matter.


Otegi had faced possible charges after he paid tribute on
September 20, 2003 in the Basque port city of Bilbao to ETA
member Arkaitz Otazua, who was killed a few days earlier in a
clash with police.


But on Monday, a Spanish court ruled there was not enough
evidence to bring criminal charges of glorifying terrorism
against him.


According to a document on Thursday, the judge is now considering
reopening the case "after having noted the possible existence of
a recording of this demonstration of September 20, 2003."


The video is believed to belong to the private Spanish television
channel Antena 3, which has been requested to send it to the
court as soon as possible.

