

Three people, including two lawmakers, were killed on Thursday
when a suicide bomber wearing an explosive vest blew himself up
in the canteen in the Iraqi parliament building, a security
official said.


"A suicide bomber wearing an explosive belt and carrying a
briefcase entered the cafeteria. Security was very tight because
parliament was meeting," said the official, speaking on condition
of anonymity from the scene of the attack.


State television reported that three lawmakers were killed, but
the official told AFP that the third victim was a parliamentary
employee.


"The flesh of the suicide bomber was scattered across the
cafeteria. There was blood everywhere on the floor," the official
told AFP.


MP Mohammed Awad, who is a member of the National Dialogue Front,
a Sunni Arab party which has 11 seats in the 275-member
parliament, was among the dead, the official told AFP.


The official said the other lawmaker killed was a member of the
Kurdish Alliance, the second biggest grouping represented in
parliament after the main Shiite Muslim alliance.


However, Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari, also a member of the
Kurdish Alliance, could not confirm that when contacted by AFP.


Another 20 people, around 10 MPs and 10 security officials, were
wounded in the blast and all the casualties were taken to the Ibn
Sina, the US military hospital inside the heavily guarded Green
Zone compound.


"After the explosion, bodies were scattered here and there inside
the cafeteria. American security forces cordoned off the scene...
and now they are searching suspcious bags and briefcases," the
Iraqi official said.


Five lawmakers from the main Sunni political grouping in
parliament, the National Concord Front, were wounded in the
blast, the official said.

