

Irish budget airline Ryanair plans to start flying between Europe
and the United States within four years, with tickets priced from
"10 euros and 12 dollars," its chief executive has told a trade
magazine.


Ryanair would create a long-haul no-frills carrier, independent
of Ryanair, that would mean the purchase of up to 50 widebody
Airbus A350s or Boeing 787s, Michael O'Leary told the latest
edition of Flight International.


Excerpts of the interview were released to media on Thursday
ahead of next week's publication.


Ryanair's push into the transatlantic market is being made
possible after EU transport ministers last month gave clearance
for plans to free up the transatlantic aviation market under a
long-sought "open skies" accord.


"By mid 2009, we will be carrying 70 million passengers at 23
bases across Europe," O'Leary told Flight International.


"It will be relatively straightforward for us to do a deal for 40
to 50 long- haul aircraft and connect these bases
transatlantically. There would be no one to touch us."


O'Leary said that revenues would be increased through the sale of
food, duty free goods and in-flight entertainment, while the new
carrier would also offer a premier class.


Ryanair currently increases revenues by charging passengers to
take baggage on board. Its ticket prices are advertised excluding
taxes.


O'Leary told Flight International that he is looking to serve
five or six US cities from Ryanair's 23 European bases.


The maverick boss added that he expected the services, to
secondary airports such as Baltimore, Providence in Rhode Island
and New York Long Island Islip Macarthur "to be full."


O'Leary said that he has already received speculative approaches
from US airports.


The share price in Ryanair dipped 0.17 percent to 6.05 euros in
Dublin afternoon trade. The Irish Overall Index was down 0.29
percent at 9,529.74 points.

