

Powerful bomb blasts early Thursday badly damaged two Yerevan
campaign offices of one of Armenia's leading parties in next
month's parliamentary elections, police said.


No one was injured in the explosions which took place at about
3:00 am (2200 GMT Wednesday) when explosive devices were
detonated in separate districts of the capital, a police
statement said.


"Serious damage was caused to our offices as a result of the
explosions. The buildings were almost entirely destroyed," a
spokesman for the Prosperous Armenia party, Bagdasar Mherian,
told AFP.


President Robert Kocharian ordered an investigation and decried
the bombings as an attack on democracy.


"We regard this as an attempt to destabilize the situation, to
create an atmosphere of intolerance before parliamentary
elections. Radical displays cannot interfere with Armenia's
determination to hold democratic elections," presidential
spokesman Victor Sogomonian said in a statement.


Prosperous Armenia, a populist pro-presidential party, was formed
last year by Gatik Tsarukian, one of Armenia's richest men. Along
with the ruling Republican Party, it is considered one of the top
contenders in the May 12  vote.


Previous elections in Armenia, an ex-Soviet state in the
strategic Caucasus region, have been marred by allegations of
vote-rigging and intimidation.


On April 2, Vardan Gukasian, the mayor of Armenia's second-
largest city Gyumri and a prominent member of the Republican
Party, survived an assassination attempt by gunmen that left
three people dead.

