

Russia said Thursday it was making progress on a nuclear accord
with Japan that would double Moscow's fuel exports, but a dispute
lingered on controls against non-proliferation.


"Preparations towards the agreement are progressing at a high
speed," said Sergei Kiriyenko, head of the Russian Federal Agency
for Atomic Energy.


Kirienko was visiting Japan for negotiations on a nuclear
cooperation accord, an idea launched in February during Russian
Prime Minister Mikhail Fradkov's visit here.


Under an agreement, Japan would ship spent nuclear fuel to Russia
for uranium enrichment and Japanese businesses would cooperate in
manufacturing Russian nuclear reactors.


A deal would double Russia's supply of nuclear fuel to Japan to
25 percent of Japan's consumption, Kiriyenko said.


Japan, which has almost no natural energy resources, relies on
nuclear power for 30 percent of its energy needs but enriches
little uranium due to public concerns about safety.


But Japan is also concerned about the non-proliferation of
nuclear weapons as it is the only nation to have been attacked
with atomic bombs.


Japanese officials have said they asked Russia to allow the UN
nuclear watchdog to inspect facilities enriching uranium to
ensure the material is not diverted for nuclear weapons.


Russia has agreed to inspections of its nuclear facilities by the
International Atomic Energy Agency, but not all need to be open,
Kiriyenko said.


"Russia is a nuclear nation and it can decide on its own which of
its facilities should be inspected, and it is unnecessary for all
facilities to be subjected to inspection," Kiriyenko said.


"Only facilities that will have partners or cooperation (with
Japan) can be inspected -- only those that have meaning to be
inspected should be inspected," he said.

