

The European Union will seek later this month to set up a special
WTO panel to rule on a dispute with Delhi over India's high
duties on wines and spirits, an EU Commission spokesman said
Thursday.


India on Tuesday rejected a demand that the WTO set up such a
panel to rule on the dispute, calling the initiative premature as
discussions were underway.


"India has decided to block our request for a panel," said
Michael Mann, spokesman for the EU agriculture commissioner.


They are allowed to do that once but the EU will insist on a
panel being set up when the World Trade Organisation's Geneva-
based Dispute Settlement Body meets on April 24, he added.


India will not be able to block the second request.


Combined duties and taxes are as high as 550 percent on imported
spirits and as much as 264 percent on imported wine, according to
an EU report.


The United States submitted a similar complaint to the WTO over
India's wine and spirit duties in early March.


"We want to see the elimination of what we see as excessive
tariffs, they should do away with these customs duties as soon as
possible," said Mann.


A report from the Press Trust of India on Wednesday quoted an
unnamed source as saying that India expects to pass legislation
cutting the high drinks duties before the WTO can complete an
investigation into the levies.


EU Trade Commissioner Peter Mandelson's spokesman Peter Power, in
Delhi for WTO talks told AFP that there would be "a series of
meetings in the coming weeks" on the subject.


India, home to 1.1 billion people and a fast-growing middle
class, represents a potentially huge market for both European and
US wine and spirits exporters.


EU statistics agency Eurostat said that in 2004, EU wine and
spirits exports to India amounted to just 27.3 million euros
(36.7 million dollars), out of a total EU export market worth 9.5
billion euros.

