

New Zealand were 154-6 after 40 overs of their World Cup Super
Eights match against Sri Lanka at the Grenada National Stadium
here on Thursday.


Scott Styris was on 79 with Daniel Vettori on five.


New Zealand captain Stephen Fleming won the toss and elected to
bat but soon regretted the decision after left arm seamer
Chaminda Vaas had him lbw for nought off the fifth ball of the
innings.


Ross Taylor, who had missed the last four games through injury,
was then dismissed by a brilliant catch from wicketkeeper Kumar
Sangakkara off Vaas without scoring after facing just two balls.


New Zealand were 4-2 at that stage.


Opener Peter Fulton put on 67 with Styris for the third wicket
but he was dismissed by Vaas with Chamara Silva taking a catch at
deep square leg for 28 off 92 balls.


With the score on 77, Craig McMillan became the fourth man out
when he was caught by Silva off Muttiah Muralitharan for just
one.


Farveez Maharoof then caught Jacob Oram for 31 off Tillakaratne
Dilshan with the score on 141 in the 38th over before Brendon
McCullum was out lbw to Muralitharan for one five balls later.


The Black Caps, who top the Super Eights table, need just one
more win to be certain of a semi-final spot.


Taylor replaced Hamish Marshall while, in another change to the
side that beat Ireland by 129 runs in Guyana on Monday, fast
bowler Mark Gillespie, yet to play a match in this World Cup
because of a problem in his shoulder, replaced off- spinner
Jeetan Patel.


Sri Lanka were without fast bowler Lasith Malinga, top of the
tournament bowling averages, after he'd sustained damage to his
left ankle ligaments in  training. His place was taken by Farveez
Maharoof.

