

Global crude prices extended gains on Thursday, breaching 63
dollars a barrel in New York, as traders weighed up a heavier-
than-expected fall in stockpiles of US gasoline, dealers said.


The price of Brent North Sea crude for May delivery added 42
cents to 68.26 dollars per barrel in London electronic deals.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, jumped 1.04 dollars to 63.05 dollars per barrel
in floor trading.


"Crude futures were higher ... still supported by a larger than
expected draw in gasoline (petrol) stocks last week," said
Michael Davies, an analyst at the Sucden brokerage in London.


Oil prices had swung higher on Wednesday after the US Department
of Energy said gasoline reserves slumped by 5.5 million barrels
to 199.7 million in the week to April 6.


The decline was far heavier than market expectations for a fall
of 1.4 million barrels, and came ahead of the peak-demand season.


Gasoline stockpiles are a critical focus before the so-called US
driving season that starts next month and sees many Americans
take to their cars for their holidays.


"Now we are going into the US driving season, everyone is looking
at gasoline," CMC Markets trader Nas Nijjar said.


The International Energy Agency on Thursday urged the OPEC oil
producers' group to increase production, saying in its monthly
report that higher output was needed to build up world stocks.


The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries decided to cut
its oil output twice at the end of last year to help stem falling
prices.


"The IEA said output remains below sufficient levels necessary to
produce the usual spring build in crude inventories," Davies
noted.


"However, whilst the IEA is focusing on crude stocks, the real
issue (driving prices) at the moment is the falling US gasoline
inventories and tensions surrounding Iran's nuclear programme."


Analysts fear that further UN sanctions against Iran, the world's
fourth biggest producer of crude, could see the Islamic Republic
disrupt oil exports.


The IEA, meanwhile, also tweaked its estimates of world oil
demand for last year and 2007.


Demand in 2006 was estimated at 84.3 million barrels per day, a
cut of 190,000 bpd from a previous estimate. The IEA forecast
demand this year to be at 85.8 million bpd, a reduction of
250,000 bpd from a previous estimate.

