

Auto-parts giant Magna International Inc. is wooing investment
firm Onex Corp. to help it launch an all-Canadian bid for trouble
US car maker Chrysler, local media said Thursday.


Magna chair Frank Stronach told the Globe and Mail newspaper the
company he founded is hoping to make a bid with significant
financial backing from Onex, headed by his friend Gerald
Schwartz.


"We'd like to have some partners and Gerry would be a good
partner," Stronach told the Toronto-based newspaper in a
telephone interview from Austria, where Magna has operations.


"We would make a big commitment," he added, indicating that the
offer would be "a big sum." But he would not overpay, saying: "I
wouldn't jeopardize Magna."


Wednesday, Stronach's daughter Belinda quit Canadian politics to
help steer the family business.


In a statement, the blonde bombshell who once challenged Prime
Minister Stephen Harper for leadership of the Conservatives as a
rookie glad-hander, said she would rejoin Magna as executive vice
chairman.


In an interview with public broadcaster CBC, she said: "It's a
significant time in the Canadian auto industry ... and I want to
be a part of that."


DaimlerChrysler AG recently put its American unit up for sale
amid shareholder discontent over its continuing losses since the
merger of Germany's Daimler and Chrysler in 1998.


The Globe and Mail said DaimlerChrysler wants at least eight
billion dollars for Chrysler, but Magna and investment firm Onex
would also likely have to assume pension and health liabilities
topping 15 billion dollars.


Making seats, trim, suspension and engine components for
virtually every Chrysler vehicle manufactured in North America
generates about 3.6 billion dollars for Magna, or about 15
percent of its annual revenues.


In Austria, Magna also builds entire cars for DaimlerChrysler.


Onex, which has bought and turned around several Canadian
companies, would bring its financial expertise to the alliance.

