

A deadly suicide bombing inside Iraq's parliament complex
Thursday was the work of "terrorists" trying to counter the new
US security effort in Baghdad, US Secretary of State Condoleezza
Rice said.


"It's obviously again the terrorists and those who wish to stop
the Iraqi people from having a future that would be based on
democracy and stability," Rice said after meeting with Senator
John McCain.


"There will be good days and bad days," Rice said, speaking of
the new US security plan which has involved deploying thousands
more US troops to Baghdad in recent weeks to counter insurgent
attacks and sectarian violence.


"But the commanders are carrying out their responsibilities and
working to try to make the population more secure," she said.


"This is still early in the process and I don't think anybody
expected that there would not be counter-efforts by terrorists to
undermine the security progress that we're trying to make," she
said.


McCain, a Republican presidential hopeful whose strong support
for the administration's policy in Iraq has hurt his popularity,
said the attack should not deter the United States from pursuing
its security surge.


"I fully expect the enemy to try to orchestrate more spectacular
attacks, such as rocketing the green zone and other acts, which
would understandably grab the attention and the headlines in the
United States, because they realize that if they can erode the
American public's will, then they would be able to achieve
success," he said.


"But I don't think that that should change the larger picture
which means we're achieving some small successes already with the
strategy being employed," he said.

