

Shane Warne believes Sri Lanka and New Zealand are the two main
obstacles to Australia winning a third successive World Cup
title.


The veteran leg-spinner, now retired from international cricket,
has been buoyed by seeing Ricky Ponting's team recover from
defeats to England and New Zealand earlier in the year to put
together six wins in a row in the Caribbean.


"I said before the start of the World Cup that Australia - after
losing a couple of games, missing five of their top batsmen that
weren't playing and still making 350 against New Zealand, even
though they lost - just had to sort a few selection issues out
and sort a few of their bowlers out," Warne told Sky Sports.


"If they got that I thought they'd go all the way. I didn't think
there'd be too many teams that would come close to them. But I
think New Zealand Sri Lanka are probably the dangers."


Warne, who is in England preparing for the start of the County
Championship season with Hampshire, believes England can still
qualify for the last four despite the fact they must win all
their games from here on in to do so.


"They've played a lot of one-day cricket and I'm not sure they've
got the right side at the moment," Warne added.


"They've got two or three of the top few that haven't even made a
hundred in one-day cricket.


"I'm not sure the World Cup is the time to give people
experience, it's a time to play your best side and try and win
all your games. But the whole world wants to see England playing
good cricket.


"Maybe they might just be peaking at the right time. There's some
big games coming up. They might win them and sneak into the semis
and surprise everyone."


Australia's next match is against Sri Lanka in Grenada on Monday,
while England face South Africa on Tuesday in Barbados.

