

First quarter growth in the 13-nation eurozone should slow to 0.5
percent from the brisk pace set in 2006, before adding 0.6
percent in the second quarter, the statistical offices of France,
Germany and Italy said on Thursday.


The French institute Insee and its German and Italian
counterparts Ifo and Isae added in a joint statement that the
eurozone economy should then grow by 0.6 percent more in the
third quarter of 2007.


The rates represent weaker growth than the annualised 2.8 percent
posted last year, but the first-quarter 2007 figure was
nonetheless revised higher from a previous estimate by all three
countries in January of 0.3 percent.


"Industrial production is expected to stabilize at a reasonably
high level," the statement said to explain its optimistic
outlook.


In addition, the effect of this year's increase in value-added
tax in Germany "should have a weaker impact in eurozone
consumption than initially forecast: private consumption growth
is expected to stabilise at 0.4 percent in the first quarter, it
added.


"After the modest end-2006 figure chiefly due to weak French
performance, industrial production is expected to rebound by 0.8
percent in the first quarter of 2007."


In the following quarters industrial production should stabilise
at slightly below the early 2006 level, gaining 0.6 percent in
both the second and third quarters, in large part owing to German
output.


Inflationary pressures would remain limited, the three statistic
services said.


"Assuming an oil price of 60 to 65 dollars a barrel and an
exchange rate of about 1.30 dollars per euro, headline inflation
- thanks to negative contributions by energy prices - should
decline to 1.6 percent in the second quarter and 1.7 percent in
third quarter 2007, after a small jump to 1.9 percent in the
first quarter," it said.

