

A United Nations-chartered freighter freed last week by pirates
off the Somali coast arrived Thursday at the Kenyan port town of
Mombasa, a maritime official said.


The Saint Vincent and the Grenadines-flagged ship, MV Rozen, was
seized with its 12-man crew off the Somali coast in late February
after delivering 1,800 tonnes of relief food for the UN World
Food Programme (WFP) to the war-stricken nation.


"The crew are fine, but they are very shaken," Andrew Mwangura of
the Seafarers Assistance Programme told AFP by telephone from
Mombasa.


"All the sailors -- six Kenyans and six Sri Lankans --  gave
harrowing tales of torture and fierce gun battles while in
captivity," he said, adding that family members, UN officials and
other port authorities had greeted the crew members on arrival in
Kenya.


It was not clear whether any ransom was paid to secure the
vessel's release.


The gunmen held the ship in a coastal outpost in the semi-
autonomous Somali region of Puntland.


The WFP has called on the Somali interim government and Puntland
authorities to step up security along the coast to curb the
piracy that has been affecting the delivery of humanitarian
supplies.


The 3,700-kilometer unpatrolled Somali coast saw scores of pirate
attacks between March 2005 and June last year. These stopped
during six months of strict rule by a now-vanquished Islamist
movement that controlled much of south and central Somalia.


Somalia has lacked an effective central government since plunging
into chaos with the 1991 ouster of former dictator Mohamed Siad
Barre.

