

Astral Media announced a deal Thursday to buy competitor Standard
Radio for 1.08 billion Canadian dollars (950 million US dollars),
becoming Canada's largest radio broadcaster.


"The acquisition of Standard Radio from the Slaight family means
that Astral Media will become the largest radio broadcaster in
Canada," boasted Astral chief executive Ian Greenberg in a
statement.


The acquisition is just the latest in a string of recent
consolidations in Canada's media sector.


In January, CanWest Global Communications and US investment bank
Goldman Sachs struck a deal worth two billion US dollars to
acquire Alliance Atlantis Communications.


CanWest is Canada's largest newspaper publisher with 10 dailies
and dozens of smaller weekly and community papers throughout the
country, and the nation's third largest broadcaster.


It said it would run Alliance Atlantis's 13 specialty channels,
while Goldman Sachs assumed ownership of a stake in the hugely
popular "CSI" franchise, which is co-produced with US broadcaster
CBS.


CTVglobemedia, owner of Canada's largest private television
network and the Globe and Mail newspaper, meanwhile is seeking
regulatory approval to acquire broadcaster CHUM in a 1.5-billion
US dollar deal announced in July 2006.


To become the number one radio broadcaster by number of stations
and by weekly hours tuned, Montreal-based Astral agreed to pay
800 million Canadian dollars (705.5 million US) in cash, and hand
over 4.75 million Astral shares.


Assets purchased include Standard Radio's 52 radio stations
operating in five provinces and covering 29 markets across
Canada, as well as an advertising sales company and two
television stations.

