

Bidders for Alitalia will need to pay 1.5 billion euros (two
billion dollars) for the troubled Italian airline, and commit the
same amount again to get the airline back on its feet, Transport
Minister Alessandro Bianchi said on Thursday.


"Today, whoever wants to participate in this operation ought to
put up at least 1.5 billion euros for the acquisition and ought
to provide at least the same to make the airline run well,"
Bianchi said on Repubblica Radio TV.


The Italian government, which is privatising Alitalia, has a 49.9
percent stake and plans to sell at least 39.9 percent which would
then force the buyer to make an offer for the rest of the
company.


At the close of trade on Wednesday Alitalia's market
capitalisation was 1.394 billion euros, while in morning trade on
Thursday the shares were down 0.89 percent to 0.99 euros.


Bianchi said he was "rather satisfied" by the three candidate
bidders, even if they were not major airlines.


Three consortiums are bidding to buy the Italian government's
stake, with the main surprise offer coming from the Russian
airline Aeroflot which is bidding with banking partner Unicredito
Italiano.


The second consortium is comprised of Italian bank Mediobanca,
investment fund Texas Pacific Group and privaty equity group
MatlinPatterson.


A third bidder is AP Holding, the holding company of Carlo Toto,
owner of the Italian airline Air One.


Candidates now have until Monday to present preliminary offers,
including business plans for the airline.


Bianchi said he did not favour changes to the rules to allow
further partners to link up with one or other of the three
bidders.


There have been reports the Unicredito-Aeroflot consortium wants
to add Air France-KLM, though Air France denies any contacts on
this possibility.

