

Dow Chemical said Thursday it had fired two corporate officers
for "unauthorized discussions with third parties about the
potential acquisition" of the company.


Dow said it had terminated Pedro Reinhard, a senior advisor and
member of the board, and Romeo Kreinberg, an officer of the
company, for engaging in "business activity that was highly
inappropriate and a clear violation of Dow's Code of Business
Conduct."


The Michigan-based chemicals giant said in a statement it took
the action swiftly after information about the "misconduct" was
first disclosed to the company on Tuesday.


"The board of directors was informed on Wednesday, April 11; and
the employees were terminated this morning with full support of
the board," a Dow statement said.


Earlier this week, shares in Dow Chemical surged on reports that
US private equity firms and foreign investors were poised to
mount a 50-billion-dollar takeover bid, which would have been the
largest leveraged buyout on record.


Dow declined to say whether the two were involved in activities
that had sparked the reports. On Monday, the group said it "has
had no discussion about a leveraged buyout."


"The values of integrity and respect for people are at the very
core of our company," said Andrew Liveris, chairman and chief
executive, in Thursday's statement.


"I think I speak for all employees when I say we are greatly
saddened by the disrespect shown by our former colleagues. But we
will move on to shape our future with an even greater resolve to
execute our strategy and deliver value to our shareholders.


"We will uphold Dow's 110-year history of commitment to the
highest standards of integrity, ethical conduct and corporate
governance," he said.

