

+++++++++        ATTENTION   ENGLISH DESK       PLEASE SUB OUT
++++++++++++


Europe's major stock markets were generally stable Thursday as
the European Central Bank maintained its principle interest rate
unchanged at 3.75 percent.


The ECB nonetheless indicated that the cost of borrowing in the
13-nation eurozone could increase in the coming months.


In London, the FTSE 100 index of leading shares posted a slight
gain of 0.05 percent to 6,416.40 points, Frankfurt's DAX 30
slipped by  0.14 percent to 7,142.95 points and in Paris the CAC
40 eased back by 0.05 percent to 5,748.94.


The DJ Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone blue chip shares declined
by 0.31 percent to 4,280.02 points.


The euro stood at 1.3486 dollars.


In Frankfurt, ECB chief Jean-Claude Trichet signalled the bank
was ready to raise eurozone borrowing costs in June, sending the
euro briefly to a two-year high against the dollar of 1.3503.


Asked at a news conference whether market expectations for a June
rate rise were correct, Trichet said: "I would not say anything
today aimed at changing the expectations for a month or two."


In New York, the Dow Jones Industrial Average showed a gain of
0.31 percent to 12,523.38 points as European markets closed,
while the Nasdaq Composite was up by 0.59 percent at 2,473.70.


The broad Standard and Poor's 500 index had advanced by 0.34
percent to 1,443.78 points.


In Asia, the Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading
shares closed down 0.73 percent at 17,540.42 points. Hong Kong's
key Hang Seng Index shed 0.34 percent to 20,380.21.


Back in London, British brewing giant Scottish and Newcastle saw
its shares slump by 2.09 percent to 586 pence after peer
SABMiller dismissed rumours that it was planning to launch a
takeover bid.


Shares in SABMiller gained 2.59 percent to 1,148 pence after the
group also issued a positive trading update.


The share price of J Sainsbury lost 0.67 percent to 522.50 pence,
a day after private equity groups Blackstone, CVC and Texas
Pacific Group abandoned their consortium takeover plans for the
supermarket chain.


In Frankfurt, DaimlerChrysler shares tumbled 1.16 percent to
61.27 euros after Canadian auto parts maker Magna International
confirmed it was in talks to acquire the group's embattled US
arm.


Shares in STMicroelectronics surged by 3.13 percent to 15.15
euros in Paris on a report that the Franco-Italian semiconductor
maker has formed a joint venture with the US group Intel in the
flash memory sector.


In Amsterdam, the AEX index slipped by 0.61 percent to 518.91
points, the Swiss SMI was off by 0.28 percent at 9,110.06, in
Milan the SP/Mib edged 0.11 percent lower to 42,756, in Madrid
the Ibex-35 gave up 0.76 percent to 14,883 and in Brussels the
Bel-20 lost 0.42 percent 4,568.24.

