

European equities pulled back on Tuesday in cautious trade on the
eve of a US interest rate call, as investors digested the
possible merger of British bank Barclays and Dutch peer ABN Amro,
dealers said.


The US Federal Reserve was widely expected to keep its short term
interest rate anchored at 5.25 percent on Wednesday. Investors
track higher borrowing costs because they increase loan
repayments and raise companies' costs.


In Europe on Tuesday, London's FTSE 100 index of leading
companies eased 0.03 percent to 6,187.50 points, Frankfurt's DAX
30 slid 0.37 percent to 6,646.73 points and in Paris the CAC 40
shed 0.42 percent to 5,435.84.


The DJ Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone blue chip shares decreased
0.42 percent to 4,038.57 points.


The euro stood at 1.3283 dollars.


Wall Street shares had raced higher Monday, with the leading Dow
Jones Industrial Average closing up over 100 points, as sentiment
was also boosted by several merger and acquisition deals, traders
said.


Japanese share prices bounced back for a second straight day on
Tuesday as overnight US gains and a softer yen provided a further
boost to recovering investor sentiment, dealers said.


Across Europe, the banking sector was in focus after Barclays and
ABN Amro revealed overnight that they were in "exclusive" talks
over a possible tie-up.


The mega-merger would create the fifth biggest global bank with a
market capitalisation of more than 160 billion dollars (120
billion euros).


Shares in ABN Amro, which is listed on the Amsterdam stock
exchange, surged 3.41 percent to 30.96 euros on Tuesday, after a
9.6-percent jump the previous day.


In London deals on Tuesday, Barclays saw its share price leap
4.36 percent to 706.5 pence.


But in Paris, Dexia shares sank by 2.51 percent to 21.32 euros as
analysts played down takeover speculation surrounding the Franco-
Belgian bank.


In Frankfurt, Deutsche Post shares slumped 5.81 percent to 21.87
euros as the group issued a disappointing outlook for next year.


Following the Barclays-ABN news, banking stocks were lifted in US
deals on Monday.


Citigroup closed up 53 cents at 50.06 dollars while Bank of
America gained 75 cents at 50.37 dollars, and JPMorgan Chase
finished up 55 cents at 47.58 dollars.


The Dow Jones index of blue chips closed up a robust 0.96 percent
at 12,226.17 points.


The Nasdaq composite spiked 0.92 percent to 2,394.41 while the
broad-market Standard  Poor's 500 gained a strong 1.09 percent to
end at 1,402.06 points.


In Asia on Tuesday, Tokyo's benchmark Nikkei-225 index of leading
shares gained 0.90 percent to finish at 17,163.20 points. Hong
Kong's key Hang Seng Index closed 0.47 percent higher at
19,356.90.

