

Somalia has overtaken Iraq as the world's most dangerous country
for minority groups, a report from a leading human rights group
said Tuesday.


The research, from Minority Rights Group International (MRG),
placed Somalia first, Iraq second and Sudan third in its "Peoples
Under Threat" list.


Although Afghanistan came fourth and Myanmar fifth, African
states made up more than half of the countries in the top 20.


"A new government in Somalia has raised hopes for democracy, but
it is also a uniquely dangerous time," said Mark Latimer,
director of MRG.


"There is the spectre of a return of large-scale clan violence --
and groups that supported the old order are now under tremendous
threat."


The organisation mentions the Darood, Hawiye and Issaq clans as
being under particular threat, as well as the Bantu group.


Somali forces loyal to the fledgling administration have been
battling a violent insurgency since they drove a powerful
Islamist movement out of southern and central areas in January
with Ethiopian support.


African Union peacekeepers are arriving to facilitate the
departure of Ethiopian troops and a takeover by Somalis.


In a statement, MRG also condemned the "appalling levels of
violence" in Darfur which have propelled Sudan to third in the
list. It also condemned "the continuing failure of the
international community to find ways of stopping the violence".


The biggest climbers up the list since last year are Sri Lanka --
up 47 places to 14th -- and Turkey, which has risen to 39 from 54
amid fears about the safety of Kurds and Roma.


On Sri Lanka, the group added: "Minority Tamils and Muslims are
not only caught up in fighting between government and rebel
forces but are targeted for human rights abuses including
abductions and disappearances because of their minority status."

