

Britain on Tuesday gave school headteachers the right to ban the
Muslim veil or other religious clothing from classrooms, but the
move was immediately branded "shocking" by a Muslim leader.


A spokesman for the Department for Education and Skills stressed
that the new guidelines did not mean that the government was
imposing a blanket ban on religious clothing at schools.


The guidelines require schools to consult with the local
community, including students' parents, before deciding on a
uniform policy, and note that, where possible, they should be
tolerant of religious dress.


But certain items of clothing, such as the full-face veil, or
niqab, may be banned if headteachers believe that they hamper
safety, security or learning, so long as a consultation is
carried out.


"Schools must act reasonably in accommodating religious
requirements, providing they do not pose a threat to security,
safety and learning, or compromise the well-being of the whole
school community," said the guidelines.


But they added: "Where individual requirements have an impact in
any of these areas, schools are within their rights to take
appropriate action," while saying they must consult with parents
and the local community.


Massoud Shadjareh, chairman of the Islamic Human Rights
Commission, voiced dismay at the new rules.


"Successive ministers dealing with education issues have failed
to give proper guidance when requested by human rights
campaigners about schools' obligations regarding religious
dress," he said.


"To now proceed to issue guidance against Muslim communities is
simply shocking."


The new rules follow a high-profile British court case in which
the father of a 12-year-old Muslim girl was last month refused
permission to challenge a school's ban on her wearing the niqab
during lessons.

