

A much-awaited book by French presidential candidate Segolene
Royal is to go on sale in bookstores next week, a month before
the first round of voting, the publisher said Tuesday.


Entitled "Now", the book compiles interviews between the
Socialist candidate who wants to become France's first woman
president and the editor-in-chief of Elle magazine Marie-
Francoise Colombani.


The book due out on Tuesday is published by Hachette
Litteratures.


It follows the release this week of a scathing book by the
Socialist Party's former economics chief, Eric Besson, who
resigned last month in a row over her campaign.


In "Who Knows Madame Royal?", Besson describes Royal as a glory-
hunting populist who "abuses demagoguery" and whose campaign
lacks clarity.


"In all conscience I do not think that Segolene Royal should
become president of the Republic. I do not wish it for my
country. I fear it for my children," Besson writes in the book,
extracts of which were published in the press and on the
Internet.


After a strong start in the campaign, Royal has slipped behind
Interior Minister Nicolas Sarkozy, the candidate of the governing
right-wing party, in public opinion polls.


At least two polls have shown the 53-year-old former adviser to
the late president Francois Mitterrand on par in the first round
of voting with centrist Francois Bayrou.


A first book, to be based on citizens' contributions to Royal's
website "Desires for the Future" (www.desirsdavenir.org) was
announced for August 2006 by Flammarion. A first chapter was
published on her website, but the rest of the book has yet to
materialize.

