

Pakistan President Pervez Musharraf Tuesday inaugurated a multi-
million-dollar Chinese-funded deep sea port in southwestern
Baluchistan province, officials said.


Gwadar port, on the Arabian Sea, has been around 75 percent
financed by Pakistan's close strategic and economic ally China.
The cost of the development is around 250 million dollars.


Singapore's PSA International, owned by state-linked investment
firm Temasek Holdings, will run the port when its terminal begins
operations in the second quarter of 2007.


"Gwadar will become an industrial hub and this port will become
the centre of containers, inshallah (God willing)," Musharraf
told a ceremony after the formal inauguration.


Musharraf said that remote Gwadar, some 450 kilometres (280
miles) west of Karachi, will also have a modern new airport to be
built with Chinese assistance.


"The same Chinese friends will build an airport here for us,
where the best aircraft will come," Musharraf said.


China's communication minister Li Shenglin also attended the
inauguration ceremony at the invitation of the Pakistani
government. China has built several projects in neighbouring
Pakistan including two nuclear power stations.


Impoverished Baluchistan has been wracked since late 2004 by an
insurgency blamed on tribal rebels who want a greater share of
profits from the region's rich resources.


The militants also oppose Musharraf's plan to build several
military bases in the province, which borders Afghanistan and
Iran.


Musharraf said that insurgents would be eliminated if they tried
to disrupt the development work in Baluchistan.


"Do not create hurdles in the development work. I warn you that
you will be eliminated," he said referring to tribal insurgents.


"Those saboteurs who are bowing up (gas) pipelines, who are they?
They are the people who do not want development of Baluchistan
because they want to maintain their subjugation of poor people,"
he said.

