

A Kosovo Albanian man and his Serb wife won an appeal against
their expulsion from The Netherlands on Tuesday due to the risk
of rights violations if they returned to the UN-run Serbian
province.


"On their return to Kosovo, the displaced family risks becoming
the victim of human rights violations... The situation for ethnic
minorities in Kosovo is still bad," the appeals court at Bois-le-
Duc, southern Netherlands, said.


Kosovo's ethnic Albanian majority is seeking independence from
Serbia and took up arms in the late 1990s, leading to a brutal
crackdown by Serbian forces and the intervention of NATO and the
United Nations.


The tiny southern province is now broadly controlled by UN
officials backed by NATO peacekeepers, but the ethnic violence
continues and it is now the Serb minority which bears the brunt
of ethnic Albanian hostility.


The two communities rarely mix and inter-marriage is very rare.


The court said it based its decision on reports from the Dutch
foreign ministry highlighting the dangers for non-Albanians in
Kosovo.


"The family is part of more than one group at risk as defined by
the ministry's reports, in regard to ethnic Serbs and people in
mixed marriages," the court said.


It said the husband also was at risk of "acts of vengeance" as he
had served in the former Yugoslav army, which was seen as an
instrument of repression by most Kosovo Albanians.


The international community has repeatedly condemned inter-ethnic
violence in Kosovo. But it also has been accused of failing to
stop it, especially after mobs of ethnic Albanian extremists
rampaged unhindered through Serb enclaves in 2004, leaving
thousands of Serbs homeless.


The judgement came as a French newspaper reported Tuesday that UN
envoy Martti Ahtisaari, charged with finding a solution to the
question of Kosovo's status, had decided to recommend
independence.

