

The UN envoy for Kosovo Martti Ahtisaari proposes independence
for the Albanian- populated Serbian province in his confidential
report, excerpts of which were quoted by the French newspaper Le
Monde on Tuesday.


"Independence under international supervision is the only viable
option" for Kosovo, Ahtisaari said in the report that was sent to
UN Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon last week.


According to Le Monde, Ahtisaari wrote that "maintaining an
international administration was not tenable" for Kosovo but that
its "reintegration into Serbia was not a viable option."


"The time has come to determine the status of Kosovo," said
Ahtisaari, following eight years of UN rule in the province.


"Independence offers the only guarantee against the risk" of
instability, he said. "It's also the only chance for a
sustainable partnership with Serbia."


Under the plan, Kosovo would have its own constitution but would
"for an initial phase" be placed under the international
monitoring of "civilian personnel" named by the European Union.


NATO forces would continue to be present at the outset and the
Serb minority would enjoy a high degree of autonomy, according to
the report quoted by Le Monde.


Kosovo has been administered by the United Nations since 1999,
when NATO bombing helped to drive out Serb forces carrying out a
brutal crackdown on ethnic Albanians.


Some 10,000 ethnic Albanians died and hundreds of thousands fled
Kosovo during the 1998-1999 conflict.


Earlier this month, Serbian and ethnic Albanian officials failed
to agree on future self-rule for Kosovo after more than 13 months
of UN-sponsored talks.


Members of the UN Security Council are to receive the full final
report from Ahtisaari on Monday.


The UN Security Council will be asked in the coming weeks to
consider the plan put forward by Ahtisaari following the failure
of negotiations between Serbia and Kosovo Albanians.

