

US housing starts rebounded with a surprisingly strong nine
percent jump in February after a big slump in the prior month,
the Commerce Department reported Tuesday.


The report showed housing starts at an annualized pace of 1.525
million, well ahead of Wall Street forecasts of 1.445 million and
defying expectations of a further slide in the troubled real
estate market.


The agency revised down its estimate for January to a pace of
1.399 million from 1.408 million. The initial estimate had marked
the lowest level of starts in nine years.


Even with the rebound in February, housing starts are down 28.5
percent from a year earlier.


New home construction fell steadily last year as the market was
buffeted by rising interest rates and slowing demand following
years of spectacular growth which unleashed a speculative frenzy
in some cities.


Despite the increase in new starts, building permits continued to
fall in February, signalling future weakness.


Housing permits, which provide an indication of future housing
starts, fell 2.5 percent to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of
1.532 million units in February.


That was the 12th drop in 13 months and the lowest level since
November of last year. In the past year, permits have dropped
28.6 percent.


The level of housing starts varied from region to region in
February, with the northeast and midwest lower, possibly due to
severe weather. Starts rose 18.0 percent in the south and 26.4
percent in the west, but fell 29.7 percent in the northeast and
14.4 percent in the midwest.


Marie-Pierre Ripert, economist at IXIS Corporate and Investment
Bank, said the weak levels of building permits "suggest that
housing starts could be disappointing in March."


As a result, she said the property market will remain "a
significant drag" on the economy in the first quarter of 2007.

