

Pakistan's chief cricket selector and the rest of the national
selection committee have resigned following the national team's
humiliating exit from the World Cup, a statement said Tuesday.


However the Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) would not comment on
newspaper reports that PCB chairman Naseem Ashraf had tendered
his resignation to President Pervez Musharraf.


Protests erupted in several Pakistani cities after the team lost
to outsiders Ireland on Saturday. Coach Bob Woolmer, who
apologised for the defeat, died on Sunday in Jamaica.


A PCB statement said chief selector Wasim Bari had tendered his
resignation and those of the rest of the national selection
committee to the board.


The statement said: "The committee's tenure was up to the 2007
World Cup and that it shares responsibility for the team's
performance in the World Cup."


Bari told private AAJ television: "Our team has not performed
well and for this reason the entire selection committee has
resigned.


"I had sent the resignations two days ago to the PCB, but the
chairman was touring interior Sindh (province). I spoke to him
briefly."


Bari told the television station he had "heard about" Ashraf's
resignation -- which several newspapers here reported without
giving a source -- but could not confirm it.


Captain Inzamam-ul-Haq on Sunday announced he would retire from
one-day cricket after the game against Zimbabwe on Wednesday -- a
match dedicated to the coach -- before Pakistan return home.


President Pervez Musharraf in a television interview late Monday
also expressed his disappointment. "I am as dejected and
disappointed, as the whole nation, on the performance of the
cricket team," Musharraf said.

