

The yen fell against the dollar and euro on Tuesday after the
Bank of Japan kept its key interest rate steady as expected.


"The trend of yen weakness looks to have returned with the dollar
breaking temporarily back above the 118.00 (yen) level after the
decision of the Bank of Japan to maintain an unchanged monetary
stance," said Derek Halpenny, senior currency economist at The
Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi in London.


The European single currency rose to 156.96 yen -- the highest
level since March 1.


The euro meanwhile stood at 1.3285 dollars in early European
trade, from 1.3300 dollars late in New York on Monday.


The dollar stood at 117.93 yen in European trade, from 117.41 yen
late on Monday.


On Tuesday, the Bank of Japan played down concerns about the
health of world markets and the US housing sector as it left its
benchmark interest rate on hold at 0.5 percent.


BoJ governor Toshihiko Fukui said the central bank would closely
monitor global equity markets but suggested that the recent
worldwide sell-off had been a necessary adjustment after earlier
sharp rises.


The Bank of Japan had last month raised its key lending rate from
0.25 percent to 0.50 percent, its first hike since last July when
it ended over five years of virtually free credit.


The BoJ has faced political pressure not to raise interest rates
too quickly and with inflation still very subdued, the central
bank is expected to move cautiously with further monetary
tightening.


The US central bank meanwhile is widely expected to keep its
interest rates anchored at 5.25 percent on Wednesday but market
participants said they would be scrutinising an accompanying
policy statement.


"The market has already priced in a future rate cut but I don't
think the Fed will make any statement that will increase such
speculation," said Masaki Fukui, senior currency economist at
Mizuho Corporate Bank.


The euro was changing hands at 1.3285 dollars, against 1.3300
dollars on Monday, 156.61 yen (156.49), 0.6797 pounds (0.6836)
and 1.6126 Swiss francs (1.6121).


The dollar stood at 117.93 yen (117.64) and 1.2136 Swiss francs
(1.2118).


The pound was being traded at 1.9543 dollars (1.9446).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold dipped to 654.40
dollars per ounce, from 655 dollars late on Monday.

