

Iran's foreign minister met South African President Thabo Mbeki
in Cape Town Tuesday ahead of United Nations Security Council
(UNSC) talks on extended nuclear sanctions against Tehran.


Manouchehr Mottaki and Mbeki met for about an hour early Tuesday
afternoon, but the outcome of their discussions would not be made
known, the president's spokesman Mukoni Ratshitanga told AFP.


Foreign affairs spokesman Ronnie Mamoepa said the discussions
were part of ongoing consultations between Iran and South Africa
as a member of the International Atomic Energy Agency board of
governors.


"This is a continuation of ongoing and regular discussions about
the current nuclear developments around Iran," Mamoepa said.


The meeting came on the eve of a gathering of the UNSC, chaired
by South Africa, to discuss additional sanctions against Iran
over its nuclear activities.


Germany as well as the United States, Russia, China, Britain and
France, the council's five permanent members, want sanctions to
be toughened.


But South Africa has said it would propose a 90-day freeze on
Iran's uranium enrichment in exchange for a simultaneous
suspension of UN sanctions.


The council in December imposed limited sanctions on Iran over
its refusal to freeze uranium enrichment.


The new sanctions draft bans Tehran from exporting arms, calls
for voluntary trade sanctions and expands a list of officials and
companies targeted for financial and travel restrictions.


The West fears Iran aims to produce nuclear weapons with the
enriched uranium, but Tehran insists the fuel is for peaceful
energy purposes only.


South Africa, which dismantled its nuclear weapons program during
its 1990s transition to democracy, has consistently defended
Iran's right to enrich uranium for peaceful use.


Iranian nuclear negotiator Ali Larijani visited South Africa in
February to discuss the issue with Mbeki.

