

Malaysia's prisons are bursting at the seams, with chronic over-
crowding and poor facilities leading to the spread of diseases,
officials said Tuesday.


A commissioner with the state-run Human Rights Commission of
Malaysia, N. Siva Subramaniam, said some of the country's 47
prisons and detention centres did not meet international
standards for space, workers and facilities.


"Some prisons in Malaysia have breached international standards,"
he told AFP.


"One of the issues that is of great concern ... is over-crowding
of prisons and this is followed by shortage of staff," he said.


Malaysia has some 48,110 prisoners, almost 10,000 more than the
spaces available, he said.


A lack of facilities means a single prison toilet is being shared
by 40 to 70 inmates who often go without soap, toothpaste and
detergent for long periods of time.


Diseases such as skin ailments are spreading because of over-
crowding and a lack of medical personnel, with the rights
commission finding 600 people with skin diseases in one detention
centre in the southern state of Johor, Subramaniam said.


"Under the law, you must have one doctor and dentist, but most of
the prisons have got retired hospital assistants. Sometimes there
are two of them for a crowd of 4,000 prisoners, which is
terrible," he said.


A dearth of prison officials also means warder to inmate ratios
are as high as one to 60 in some jails -- well over the ideal
ratio of one to 10.


"In one dorm of a prison there are 600 inmates looked after by
three warders," he said.


Officials are calling for a review of laws to allow for parole
and sentences such as community service for less serious
offences, to keep people out of jail.


Foreigners make up 34 percent of detainees, a large proportion of
whom have committed immigration offences, and Subramaniam also
called for them to be deported instead of detained.

