

Japan staged a mock terrorist attack on a high-speed train in
Tokyo Tuesday as the nation marked the 12th anniversary of the
deadly nerve gas attack on the capital's subway.


Seventy police and fire officials staged a massive simulated
rescue of passengers from a bullet train outside Tokyo's busy
Shinagawa station after the "release" of chemical toxins.


The high-speed train made an emergency stop and workers wearing
white protective suits and gas masks swarmed the scene after a
phone call to the police by a panic-stricken passenger, police
officials said.


"This mock operation was staged to coincide with the anniversary
of the sarin attacks in Tokyo's subway," said Akihiro Koizumi,
deputy chief of the local Takanawa police station.


The exercise also aimed to prepare for potential chemical attacks
during next year's Group of Eight summit of world leaders.


"Various locations are being considered to host the summit,
including Yokohama. And since it is one stop away from Tokyo on a
bullet train, we thought it essential to do this operation," the
police official said.


Al-Qaeda has repeatedly threatened Japan, a close US ally that
sent troops to Iraq and hosts the largest US military base in
Asia.


The mock attack coincided with the 12th anniversary of the 1995
sarin gas attack masterminded by the Aum Supreme Truth cult,
whose founder Shoko Asahara is currently on death row.


Subway workers, victims or relatives of victims observed a
minute's silence at 8:00 am -- the hour when the cult released
Nazi-invented sarin gas on rush hour trains, killing 12 people
and injuring thousands more.


Many of the injured still suffer from after-effects such as
impaired vision, headaches and stress disorders.

