

Powerful communist allies of the Indian government resisted
proposals on Tuesday to raise the limit of foreign capital
inflows into the domestic insurance sector.


The announcement came at the end of a meeting aimed at seeking
the support of the communists for more reforms in the multi-
billion dollar industry which is monopolised by four state-run
firms.


"Our objections to raising foreign investment limits in insurance
remain. The government has not put forward any new argument to
help us change our view," said Communist Party of India leader
Gurudas Dasgupta.


Despite years of liberalisation in India, a foreign investor
cannot hold more than a 26 percent stake in a local insurance
venture or more than a five-percent stake in a private sector
bank.


Leaders of the Communist Party of India-Marxist also exited the
meeting saying they had "expressed our negative position to the
government" which has been seeking to extend economic
liberalisation begun in 1991.


"It is the government's prerogative to introduce the (insurance)
bill in parliament," Marxist leader Basudeb Achariya said.


"If government goes ahead without our consent, then the Left
parties are free to take any decision," he said without
elaborating.


The communists prop up the Congress-led coalition government in
parliament.


India boasts the world's second-fastest growing economy after
China. Government and private economists are forecasting growth
of around nine percent for the full-year to March 2007.

