

Beijing will adopt emergency measures shutting down the capital's
industry if pollution threatens to disrupt next year's Olympic
Games, organising committee chief Liu Qi said Tuesday.


Poor air quality constitutes a serious problem for the August
8-24 Games next year in Beijing, one of the world's most polluted
cities.


"If the pollution is really heavy during the period of the Games,
then we can adopt hard meaures like ordering a temporary closure
of industry," Liu said during a meeting with AFP chairman Pierre
Louette here.


Beijing's pledge to clean up the environment by staging a "green"
Olympics helped it win the contest to host the 2008 Games in a
vote by the International Olympic Committee (IOC) in Moscow in
July 2001.


Since then the city has spent 12 billion dollars on planting
trees and parks and curbing polluting industries, according to
the city government.


Liu said that major polluters like Capital Iron and Steel were
being moved out of the capital and 200 small and medium-sized
firms had been closed.


As a result Beijing enjoyed 241 "blue-sky" days last year up from
just 100 clear days a decade ago, he said.


"Even so there is a big gap between Beijing and some very clean
and tidy cities," he said. "But we can only do our best to reach
our goal and sincerely hope that during the time of the
competition we can provide a good environment for all the
athletes."


Last week IOC vice president Ludmilla Linberg urged Beijing
authorities to work harder to reduce pollution.


On her 15th visit to the Chinese capital the Swedish IOC member
said that poor air quality was among the chief problems some 500
days ahead of the opening ceremony.


Liu said that the main cause of pollution was the coal used as
fuel by Beijing residents, which was slowly being phased out and
replaced by natural gas.


He also said that emission standards were being raised for
Beijing's three million cars, reducing another significant cause
of poor air quality.

