

An estimated 10,000 British passports were issued to fraudsters
in the year to September 2006, the government admitted on
Tuesday.


Home Office minister Joan Ryan said the Identity and Passport
Service (IPS) received 16,500 fraudulent applications, of which
"almost half" were stopped by existing safeguards.


"Our current estimate is therefore that the level of undetected
fraud is about 0.15 percent, equivalent to 10,000 applications
against the planned 6.6 million passports issued per year," she
said in a written statement to parliament.


"Although precise figures are difficult to obtain, it appears
that the level of attempted fraud is increasing and getting more
sophisticated."


Prime Minister Tony Blair's official spokesman later added: "It
isn't just a matter of saying there's 10,000 (passports) out
there and doing nothing about them.


"Each and every one of these is being followed up to ensure that
those responsible are caught."


The revelation follows recent convictions for terrorist offences
of a number of individuals who had fraudulent passports.


Moroccan national Salaheddine Benyaich, serving 18 years'
imprisonment in Morocco for terrorist offences, had two British
passports in the name of a British citizen.


The first Al-Qaeda terrorists to be convicted in Britain --
Algerians Baghdad Meziane and Brahim Benmerzouga -- also had fake
passports and false identities.


The pair are each serving 11 years in prison.


And Dhiren Bharot, serving a life sentence for plotting September
11, 2001-style attacks on Britain and the United States, had
seven passports in his true identity and two in fraudulent
identities.


The figures were released as the IPS announced it would hold
face-to-face interviews for first-time passport applicants from
May as part of a crackdown.

