

Beijing plans to submit a revised budget for the 2008 Olympic
Games, with expected profits going to sports projects in
developing countries, organising committee president Liu Qi said
here Tuesday.


"The new budget has to be approved by the International Olympic
Committee so I can't talk about it in detail," Liu said during a
meeting with AFP chairman Pierre Louette.


"However I can assure you that we will make a profit and the
money will go towards establishing a foundation to help sport
projects in developing countries."


Beijing Olympic organisers have budgeted around two billion
dollars for running the Games which open in August 2008.


The cost of building Olympic venues is excluded from the total,
as are massive infrastructure development projects estimated at
around 40 billion dollars.


"We are fully confident that the Beijing Olympics will be in the
black," said Liu, who is also a member of the politburo of
China's Communist Party and head of the Beijing party.


Work is underway on 38 Olympics venues, 31 in Beijing including
the National Stadium, known as the "Bird's Nest" because of its
design of interlocking steel, and the aquatics centre known as
the Water Cube. The two venues alone are budgeted at some 500
million dollars.


Beijing has already revised its budget upwards from its original
estimate of 1.6 billion dollars made during the bidding process.


This year officials admitted that cost overruns were affecting
venue construction but denied that the problem would result in
completion delays.


Liu said that the venues would all be finished by the end of this
year and that 20 test events would be held on competition sites
by the end of 2007.


AFP chairman Louette is on a week-long visit to Beijing to review
preparations for the Beijing Games.

