

British 12-month inflation rose in February, in part owing to
higher air fares, but finance minister Gordon Brown can sleep
well on the eve of his annual budget as analysts forecast lower
costs ahead.


The annual inflation figure rose to 2.8 percent last month from a
year earlier, compared with analysts' consensus forecast of 2.7
percent, the same level as in January.


On a monthly basis, the Consumer Prices Index rose by 0.4 percent
in February from January, in-line with market expectations.


"The February inflation data are modestly higher than expected,
pushed up by higher air fares, an increase in food prices, and
higher furniture and furnishing prices," Global Insight analyst
Howard Archer said.


"It still seems likely that December's (annual) level of 3.0
percent marked the peak in consumer inflation, and it should
start heading down significantly in the second quarter, as
utility bills are cut."


The analyst's outlook, mirrored by most economists, will be
welcome news for Brown, who is preparing to deliver his budget to
parliament on Wednesday. Chancellor of the Exchequer Brown was
expected to unveil his final budget before launching his campaign
to replace Tony Blair as prime minister, who is stepping down
later this year as leader of Britain after a decade in power.


British inflation had shot up to 3.0 percent in December, above
the Bank of England's government-set target of 2.0 percent, and
the highest level since Labour came to power in 1997.


Investec analyst David Page said Tuesday's data would unlikely
alter the interest-rate outlook for the Bank of England.


"We are still pencilling in a (quarter-point) rate hike in May to
5.50 percent, but believe that this will be the last."


Global Insight's Archer added: "February's inflation data
reinforces the likelihood that the Bank of England will raise
interest rates by a final 25 basis points to 5.50 percent in
April or May as a precautionary measure against medium-term
inflation risks."

