

The northern city of Mazar-i-Sharif was counting down to the
Afghan New Year on Wednesday when thousands of people were to
cram around the famous Blue Mosque hoping for a miracle or a
blessing.


Tens of thousands of people, including many disabled, poured into
the city from around the country for the annual raising of a pole
and holy flags, a time in which some believe miracles can happen.


Extra police were also deployed to the city with fears that the
Taliban-led insurgency plaguing the south and east of Afghanistan
could strike the celebrations.


"We have police at every entrance to the city, checking
everyone," the head of security, General Abdul Rauf Taj, said
Tuesday.


"We have 1,300 police in the city to check security, with the
help from 200 soldiers," he said, adding he expected two million
visitors for the event.


Around two tonnes of explosives had been seized from various
parts of the city over the past two weeks, he said.


Some disabled people planned to spend the night at the gates of
the shrine so they could be at the head of the queue Wednesday
and secure a place close to the flagpole.


"This is the first year I have come," said Herat resident
Mohammad Farouk, who is in a wheelchair. "When the flagpole is
being raised, I will try to stand up. I hope I can walk," he
said.


A Kabul resident who only gave his name as Zarif said he made the
nearly 400-kilometre (250-mile) journey with his family every
year.


"I ask God every year to give me the energy to come to
Mazar-i-Sharif," he said, brushing off concerns about a terror
strike. "If I die in this way, I am a very lucky guy."

