

A double-decker bus burst into flames and careered down a central
Thailand hillside Tuesday, killing at least 29 people, as
desperate passengers scrambled through windows to escape, police
said.


Another 37 people were injured when the bus caught fire on a
major highway as it headed toward Bangkok.


"There were 29 people killed and 37 wounded. I don't know how
serious their injuries are," Lieutenant Colonel Chanathis
Wongwairak, head of the provincial highway patrol, told AFP by
telephone.


"Police spent 10 minutes extinguishing the fire, but the victims
had already died inside the wreckage."


He said the cause of the fire was still under investigation but
that it may have started in the undercarriage. The driver of a
nearby bus said he thought an axle might have broken and pierced
the fuel tank, Chanathis added.


Wuthichart Kalayanamitra, head of Transport Company which
operated the bus, said one survivor also reported the fire came
from underneath the bus.


"The injured passenger said the bus caught fire from underneath,
and it could not stop because the brake system failed as the bus
went downhill," he said.


Survivors managed to escape by leaping from windows as the bus
raced down the hill, he added.


The bus was travelling from the northeastern province of
Yasothorn toward Bangkok when it caught fire in the central
province of Saraburi, around 105 kilometres (65 miles) north of
here, police said.


The victims have not been identified, but police and the company
said they doubted any of them were foreigners.

