

Taiwan Premier Su Tseng-chang called on Tuesday for local
dialects to be given equal status with Mandarin, currently the
sole "national language."


Opposition politicians criticised the move as part of
controversial efforts to underscore the sovereignty of the
island, which China regards as part of its territory.


"Different languages are equal and should be respected," Su, from
the ruling independence-leaning Democratic Progressive Party
(DPP), said in reply to a query raised by an opposition lawmaker.


Local newspapers said the cabinet was drafting a bill under which
the island's two major dialects -- Taiwanese and Hakka -- and
languages of the indigenous tribes would also be regarded as
"national languages."


Su denied reports that the bill was aimed at abandoning Mandarin
Chinese as the "national language".


However, legislator Lee Ching-an from the leading opposition
Kuomintang (KMT) said the bill was politically motivated.


"Ideology has extended to the field of education... this would
generate an additional burden for school children," she said.


Mandarin was designated as the sole "national language" by the
former KMT government but DPP politicians tend to speak the
Taiwanese dialect to highlight the island's sovereignty, in
contrast with the KMT's appeal for eventual reunification with
the Chinese mainland.


The KMT fled to Taiwan after their troops were defeated by the
Chinese communist forces led by Mao Zedong in 1949 at the end of
a civil war.


Another KMT legislator Kuo Su-chun said the bill was an election
gimmick ahead of December's parliamentary polls and the 2008
presidential race.


Su and three other DPP heavyweights -- Vice President Annette Lu,
former premier Frank Hsieh, and DPP chairman Yu Shyi-kun -- have
made public their presidential bids.

