

Pakistan on Tuesday said concerns expressed by the European Union
over the removal of the Islamic republic's top judge were "out of
place" and "highly inappropriate."


Military ruler President Pervez Musharraf suspended Chief Justice
Iftikhar Mummahad Chaudhry on March 9, prompting sparking violent
protests in several cities and widespread anger from lawyers and
opposition supporters.


The EU Troika of Germany, Portugal and Slovenia said in a
statement that ambassadors had told Pakistani foreign ministry
officials on Monday of the importance placed by the EU on the
independence of the judiciary.


"They made it clear that recent events involving the suspension
of the chief justice of Pakistan had given rise to some concerns
in this regard," the EU statement said.


"The same went for recent infringements on the freedom of the
media. The Troika heads of mission also raised issues concerning
freedom of expression and basic civil liberties," it added.


However the Pakistani foreign ministry hit back saying that it
was "made clear to them (the Troika) that since the matter was
sub judice it would be highly inappropriate for anyone to comment
about it."


"The EU Troika representatives were reminded that their concern
was out of place as the government was fully committed to the
freedom of expression, civil rights and respect for the
judiciary," it said in a statement.


Foreign office spokeswoman Tasnim Aslam on Monday urged the
international community not to comment on the row, which deepened
Tuesday with the resignation of one of Pakistan's deputy attorney
generals.


The United States called Friday on Pakistani authorities and
their opponents to show the "utmost" restraint after anti-
government street protests turned violent and police ransacked a
television station.

