

India's air force bid farewell Tuesday to some of its last active
Soviet-era jets, which are set to be replaced by new hardware
from either Russia, the United States or Europe.


Four of its five remaining MiG-23 jets, which have top speeds of
up to 2,500 kilometres (1,150 miles) an hour, staged a fly-past
from an air base in western India before the entire squadron was
declared retired, an air force spokesman said.


The planes -- referred to by the North Atlantic Treaty
Organisation (NATO) as the "Flogger" -- were bought from the
Soviet Union in the early 1980's during a frenetic arms race with
South Asian arch-rival Pakistan.


"The last flight of these aircraft is special as they were among
the only two units to have operated the swing-wing variants of
the MiG-23 in countering possible threats from Pakistan's F-16s,"
the air force said.


Air force chief S.P. Tyagi, top military brass and diplomats were
on hand at the Jamnagar air base in Gujarat which was India's key
aviation base during its 1971 war with Pakistan, for the final
fly-past of the supersonic jets, witnesses said.


"Although we are mothballing them, they remain one of the most
powerful single- engined fighter aircraft in the world to date
and perhaps one of the most feared," a MiG-23 pilot told AFP by
telephone from Jamnagar.


In April last year, the air force scrapped its 30-year-old
Soviet-era MiG-25 spy planes, citing a shortage of spares.


India still retains an aging fleet of some 700 MiG-21 fighters,
some of which date back to the 1960s, but is hunting for
replacements amid frequent crashes and warnings that the country
is lagging behind Pakistan.


Contenders for an order for 126 fighter planes potentially worth
nine billion dollars include US giants Lockheed Martin and
Boeing, the Russian Aircraft Corp., France's Dassault Aviation,
Sweden's Saab and the Eurofighter consortium.

