

Iraqi Kurdish leader Massud Barzani conceded Tuesday that
security in Iraq was better before the 2003 US-led war but warned
an early US troop withdrawal would worsen the situation.


"Unfortunately, the situation now in Iraq is tragic and any
sudden US troop withdrawal will make things worse," the president
of Iraq's Kurdish autonomous region told a news conference in
Jordan.


"We are in favour of a US troop withdrawal from Iraq but only
when the Iraqi security forces and the government are ready and
able to control the situation and guarantee stability in the
country," said key US ally Barzani.


Asked if the situation in Iraq was better before the US-led war
four years ago, he said: "The security situation was better in
Iraq in 2003."


"But in other cases, of course Iraq 2007 is better," Barzani said
as Iraq marked four years since US-led forces invaded the
country.


"Had we seized the opportunities, Iraq 2007 could have been a
prototype (of democracy and stability), but unfortunately, this
did not happen," he added as he wrapped up a two-day visit to
Jordan.


Barzani also acknowledged that a recent US plan to contain
sectarian violence in Iraq "has not achieved all its goals," and
warned that its failure would have "dangerous repercussions"
across the country.


Barzani also denied recent press reports quoting him a saying
that the Kurds would declare their independence from the rest of
Iraq if all-out civil war between rival Sunni and Shiite forces
breaks out in the country.


"We would not be party to this struggle or take sides and we will
not be a cause of the division of Iraq," Barzani said.


He also dismissed "the fears arising from Kurds obtaining their
rights".


"Arab countries must understand that the Kurds are their brothers
and their allies. They are not aliens," he said.


On Monday Barzani had talks with Jordan's King Abdullah II who
reiterated his country's support for efforts to secure
reconciliation between rival Iraqis.

