

France's largest business lobby called on the country's
presidential candidates on Tuesday to present bold measures to
boost economic expansion, saying a target of 4.0 percent growth
by late 2012 was attainable.


"We consider that we can strive for four percent growth and we
are proposing that it be a goal for the end of the five-year
term," said Laurence Parisot, president of the MEDEF (Movement of
French Entreprises) group.


With one month to go before the first round of voting, Parisot
took aim at frontrunners Nicolas Sarkozy, the candidate of the
rightwing governing party, and Socialist rival Segolene Royal for
presenting election programmes that factor in growth projections
of between 2.0 to 2.5 percent in 2007.


Parisot said the candidates were relying too heavily on consumer
demand to stimulate growth and should instead look at supply by
encouraging businesses to produce.


"There must be a change in focus," she told a news conference,
adding that candidates needed to be less "fearful" and
"definitely more ambitious" in their proposals on economic
growth.


The MEDEF called for more state support for research and
development in industry and measures to help small and medium-
sized businesses.


It also said that boosting exports and increasing the number of
hours worked would help bolster growth.


The MEDEF has repeatedly called for scrapping the 35-hour
workweek that was adopted in 2000 under the former Socialist
government of Lionel Jospin.


The French economy grew by 2.0 percent in 2006, according to the
INSEE statistics institute.

