

Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak decreed on Tuesday that a
referendum be held on March 26 over controversial constitutional
amendments passed by parliament.


In a marathon session on Monday night, the ruling party's
majority in parliament overwhelmingly passed amendments to 34
articles of the constitution that the government says will
strengthen democracy and fight terrorism.


The opposition has denounced the speed at which measures were
passed and the suddenness of the referendum as an attempt to ram
through changes that they say have serious ramifications for
civil liberties.


The referendum had initially been expected to take place on April
4.


Government-owned daily Al-Gomhuriya said the interior ministry
was prepared for the referendum and had been coordinating with
state agencies.


With the event less than a week away, Cairo University political
science professor Mustafa Kamal Sayyed did not question the
feasibility of the referendum but rather the credibility of its
results.


"I think the government would just like the ceremony for the
referendum but not the referendum itself or any popular
participation," he told AFP.


"We know from past experience that the results announced from all
referenda do not correspond to reality," he said, referring to
widespread accusations of government-engineered fraud in recent
ballots.


Opposition groups were debating whether to launch a public
campaign for the "no" vote or boycott the referendum.

