

Dell chief executive Michael Dell told India on Tuesday to slash
tariffs on personal computers if it wants large-scale investment
by the world's second- biggest PC maker.


"If we have fantastic opportunities, we will have fantastic
investment," said Dell's founder, who resumed command of the
company in late January after it reported a slide in fourth-
quarter profits.


"Twenty to 25 percent of the costs (of personal computers in
India) are related to taxes and tariffs which is far higher than
elsewhere," Dell told reporters in the Indian capital.


He said the levies were "taxing progress" in the country of more
than one billion people.


Dell's planned 30-million-dollar computer manufacturing plant
near the southern city of Chennai would start operations in July,
adding to its existing call centre, research and computer sales
businesses, he said.


The plant is expected to have capacity to produce 400,000 units a
year.


But he said "the degree and size of the ultimate investment (by
Dell) will depend on what happens on tariffs."


"India needs to reduce tariffs on personal computers in order to
attract more investment from Dell and its suppliers," Dell said,
adding that the country was losing out on investment to China,
Vietnam and other Asian centres.


Dell, the world's number-two computer maker behind Hewlett-
Packard, also has manufacturing plants in Malaysia and China.


Western computer companies are looking to Asia to offset
saturated markets at home.


He said that Dell's Indian revenues were "heading to" one billion
dollars, but would not say when it would reach that target. Dell
stopped providing financial forecasts in 2006.


The Texas-based company's Indian sales grew by 50 percent in 2006
to hit 400 million dollars.

