

Spanish Industry Minister Joan Clos on Tuesday hit back at EU
criticisms of Madrid over perceived energy protectionism.


"We are convinced that Spain is one of the most open European
countries regarding the opening of markets," Close told a news
conference in response to comments by EU Competition Commissioner
Neelie Kroes who has accused Madrid of not respecting EU
competition rules in the energy sector.


Kroes' criticisms came after the Socialist Spanish government
made a proposed takeover of Spanish electricity giant Endesa by
German behemoth EON subject to a raft of conditions.


The government, which favoured a takeover of Endesa by another
Spanish company, Gas Natural, ultimately had to withdraw the
conditions in the face of criticism from Brussels.


Clos responded on Thursday with broadsides at EU partners and the
EU Commission, which is responsible for ensuring EU members
respect competition and internal market rules.


"For example, we have an independent network, something Senora
Kroes has not managed to impose on Germany or Italy," Close said,
regretting that the "shadow" of the Endesa affair had given a
false impression of Spain.


Clos attacked France, saying he would like to see Paris have an
"interconnection" with Madrid, as Brussels would like to see, and
"an independent network manager."


Kroes told Sunday's El Pais newspaper that "all Spaniards are not
aware of the fact that they must respect the law" as laid down by
the Commission.


Kroes accused Spain of not being "coherent" in its strategy and
of placing "artificial obstacles" in E.ON's way as the German
giant closed in on a 41 billion euro (48 billion dollar) deal.


E.ON's attempt to buy Endesa is now threatened by Italian group
Enel, which has signed deals to buy a near 25-percent stake in
the Spanish group.

