

Four alleged members of a drug cartel were arrested Tuesday in
the assassination of three Salvadoran lawmakers, Guatemalan
police said, in a case that has exposed deep corruption among the
country's police.


The four, three men and a woman, were said to be behind the
assassination of the Salvadorans and their driver, believed
carried out by corrupt police officers.


Interior Minister Carlos Vielmann said the four are part of a
network of drug traffickers operating in the Jutiapa district on
the border with El Salvador, and that the arrested woman, Linda
Castillo Orellana, is the owner of the four- wheel-drive vehicle
which allegedly followed the Salvadorans after they entered
Guatemala to attend a meeting of the Central American Parliament.


The charred, bullet-riddled remains of the three deputies and
their driver were found February 19 in a vehicle just east of
Guatemala City, where the legislative body is based.


Three days after they were killed, four Guatemalan police
officers were arrested in the case. But they themselves were
murdered while being held in a maximum security prison, leading a
judge to order the arrest of 24 employees of the prison,
including its director.


Shortly after the murders of the Savaldorans, Guatemala's
President Oscar Berger denounced corruption in the country's
security forces, saying the four police officers had been
"bought" by organized crime.


Among the Salvadoran deputies was Eduardo D'Aubuisson, 39, the
son of the late Roberto D'Aubuisson, the right-wing Salvadoran
army major accused of masterminding the March 1980 assassination
of popular Archbishop Oscar Arnulfo Romero.

