

French "Spiderman" Alain Robert was arrested on Tuesday two-
thirds of the way through a daredevil attempt to scale Malaysia's
Petronas Twin Towers without ropes or safety equipment.


The 44-year-old rock-climber, brandishing a Malaysian flag, was
grabbed by firemen waiting on the 60th floor of one of the
88-storey towers, previously the world's tallest buildings.


"As he was climbing up, we managed to coax him to stop and get
back into the building," fire department spokesman Christopher
Chong told reporters.


"He smiled, said, 'Okay' and waved the Malaysian flag at us
before we pulled him in through the window."


Robert was stopped on the same floor when he attempted the same
stunt exactly 10 years ago.


A crowd of up to 500 onlookers cheered the Frenchman as he was
bundled into a waiting police car below.


"We are arresting him because he climbed the building without a
permit from the management," a police officer said.


At least 20 policemen and a fire engine with some 15 firemen were
sent to the building.


Traffic along the road facing the towers slowed to watch Robert,
clad in black pants and yellow shirt, while many used mobile
camera phones to record the feat.


Robert's attempt was also witnessed by the president of the
French Senate, Christian Poncelet, who is on an official visit to
Malaysia.


"There are always people who look to distinguish themselves from
others but he could have done it elsewhere," Poncelet said.


"This attempt is risky," he added.


Chong said the fire department was familiar with Robert's
"stunts," since he had tried to scale the same building on March
20, 1997.


Robert was freed without charge after that attempt.


He has been nicknamed "Spiderman" for his high-profile escapades
which include climbing the Eiffel Tower in Paris and the Golden
Gate Bridge in San Francisco.

