

Houston Rockets center Yao Ming is China's top basketball player,
but when it comes to National Basketball Association souvenir
jersey sales in his homeland, Kobe Bryant rules.


NBA sales figures in China from the start of the season through
last month's NBA All-Star Game were released here Tuesday and
showed Los Angeles Lakers playmaker Bryant was the most popular
with China's buying public.


Exact numbers on how many jerseys were purchased were not
released, although the league said more than 400 million NBA
products were sold in 20,000 retail locations in China and were
expected to jump by 50 percent.


Allen Iverson of the Denver Nuggets was second with Yao's Houston
teammate Tracy McGrady third. McGrady was number one a year ago
with Iverson second. Iverson's trade from Philadelphia to Denver
might have helped his cause.


Yao, who ranked third last year in NBA jersey sales in China,
slumped to sixth this year, passed by Miami's Dwyane Wade and
LeBron James and possibly undone by prior years of success among
Chinese shirt buyers.


Bryant was fourth in sales a year ago. James remained fifth while
Wade leaped six spots after sparking the Heat to last year's NBA
crown.


Minnesota's Kevin Garnett, San Antonio's Tim Duncan, Denver's
Carmelo Anthony and Washington's Gilbert Arenas rounded out this
year's top 10.


Duncan and Arenas replaced Miami's Shaquille O'Neal and two-time
NBA Most Valuable Player Steve Nash of Phoenix on this year's
list.


Ten NBA Stores are expected to open by year's end in China, which
boasts 300 million people playing basketball, one in every five
visitors to the NBA's web site and 83 percent of people aged 15
to 24 saying they are NBA supporters.

