

The head of the Catholic church in Zimbabwe, Archbishop Pius
Ncube, criticised the South African government Tuesday for
failing to rein in Harare's hardline President Robert Mugabe.


"They are in the best position to put pressure on Zimbabwe, to
call for sanctions if necessary," the archbishop of Bulawayo said
on the SAFM radio station.


"They could force Mugabe to change but they have been watching
this thing. It's now the eighth year it has been deteriorating,"
he added.


Mugabe has come in for widespread international condemnation over
his treatment of the opposition, whose leader Morgan Tsvangirai
was arrested and then assaulted last week.


South Africa, which has long pursued a policy of 'quiet
diplomacy' towards its northern neighbour, has called for
Zimbabwe to respect the rights of all its citizens but the
comments stop some way short of the expressions of outrage that
have been heard elsewhere.


"We hear that behind doors President (Thabo) Mbeki has talked
strongly to Mugabe but when it comes to the public, we never hear
any strong words," said the archbishop who has long been one of
Mugabe's most outspoken critics.


"We are very disappointed, there is so much suffering that goes
on."


The United States has already said it is considering widening a
programme of sanctions which is already in place against Mugabe
and his immediate coterie following the treatment of Tsvangirai
and fellow members of his Movement for Democratic Change.


The archbishop however said it was vital that any new measures
did not hurt the general population.


"The civilians are already extremely vulnerable," he said.


"But sanctions that are targeted towards the government, or quick
sanctions -- cutting off the electricity for instance -- would
cause the Zimbabwean government to think fast."

