

South Korean President Roh Moo-hyun said Tuesday that his country
would have no choice but to open its beef market to US products
regardless of free trade talks.


"I think that the US will continue to call for the opening of the
beef market, regardless of the conclusion of the free trade
agreement with South Korea," Roh said, according to Yonhap news
agency.


"We're already buying beef from Australia and other foreign
countries. I'm not demanding an immediate opening, but a gradual
opening."


Roh's comment came as the two countries started informal trade
talks simultaneously in Seoul and Washington following a final
round of official talks here.


In Seoul, South Korean Assistant Agriculture Minister Min Dong-
Seok and his US counterpart Richard Crowder opened three days of
talks Monday.


South Korea insists it will maintain trade barriers on rice and
other sensitive items to protect its way of life while Washington
says there should be no exceptions in an accord.


The dispute over beef has been one of the major obstacles to the
FTA deal.


South Korea last year lifted a three-year ban imposed to keep out
mad-cow disease and agreed to accept shipments of boneless meat.


But quarantine inspectors blocked all three shipments totalling
22 tons after finding tiny bone fragments in them.


Washington accused Seoul of using the fragments as a pretext to
exclude its beef and to protect local farmers.


Both sides hope to strike a deal by the end of this month despite
hostility from farmers and other workers.


The deal, if agreed, would be the biggest since the 1993 North
American Free Trade Agreement. US-South Korean bilateral trade
reached 74 billion dollars in 2006.


US negotiators must submit any FTA deal to Congress by April 2
for a 90-day review before President George W. Bush's "fast-
track" trade promotion authority expires on July 1.

