

A campaign for a referendum on revising Madagascar's constitution
began on Tuesday with the "yes" camp saying reform is needed to
boost development in the impoverished Indian Ocean island nation.


Voters will go to the polls on April 4 to decide on the proposed
revisions that include eliminating the autonomy of six provinces
and increasing the powers of the president.


It would also make English the official language of the former
French colony.


President Marc Ravalomanana, re-elected in December, along with
members of his government and TIM (I love Madagascar) party
launched their 'yes' campaign with an ecumencial mass at party
headquarters in the capital Antananarivo.


"Thanks to our offices throughout the country, we are going to
have an information campaign in operation," said TIM party
president Razoarimihaja Solofonantenaina, after a rally where
blue posters, the colour for the 'yes' vote, were distributed to
supporters of the constitutional reforms.


Opponents of a revised constitution, brandishing the colour
yellow, formed a "national committee for the 'no' vote" on Monday
uniting about a dozen opposition parties, said Pierre Houlder,
interim head of the Arema party of former president Didier
Ratsiraka).


Two former presidential candidates, Jean Lahiniriko and Herizo
Razafimahaleo, have also joined the ranks of opponents to the
proposed constitutional reforms.


Madagascar's constitution dates back to its independence from
France in 1960 and was last revised in 1998.


Nearly 70 percent of Madagascar's 17 million people live in
abject poverty, with the country ranked among the world's 30 most
impoverished nations in terms of human development.

