

Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert on Thursday warned against any
"miscalculation" that he said could lead to war between Syria and
the Jewish state.


During his meeting with visiting US Defence Secretary Robert
Gates, the premier reiterated that the Jewish state did not wish
to wage a war against Syria, his office said.


"Israel has no intentions of attacking Syria and... both sides
needed to be wary of any miscalculation that could lead the two
countries into a confrontation that neither side is interested
in," Olmert was quoted as saying.


Israeli intelligence has said in recent months that Syria was
preparing for war against Israel.


Syrian President Bashar al-Assad has repeatedly made peace
overtures in recent months to Israel which has rejected them,
saying Damascus must first stop supporting militant groups in
Lebanon and the Gaza Strip.


On Monday a Syrian minister said that if both sides did not
engage in peace talks, Israel would face the alternative of
"resistance."


Gates, the first US defence secretary to visit key ally Israel
since 2000, on Wednesday criticised Syria for its alleged support
of insurgents in Baghdad and the Hezbollah militia in Lebanon.


"Syrian activities, both in allowing suicide bombers to cross
their border into Iraq, where they kill both Iraqis and coalition
partners, their allowing of a resupply of Hezbollah in Lebanon
and a variety of other activities, are of great concern to us,"
he said.


Damascus has denied allowing fighters to cross its 610 kilometre
(380 mile) border into Iraq.


Peace talks between Israel and Syria collapsed in 2000, mainly
because of deadlock over the return of the Golan Heights, which
Israel captured from Syria in 1967 and unilaterally annexed in
1981.

