

Hundreds of rights activists rallied in the Pakistani capital
Thursday against a fundamentalist mosque which is trying to
impose a Taliban-style justice system.


More than 300 demonstrators, around half of them women, chanted
slogans including "No to terrorism and extremism" and urged the
government to take action.


"We want to mobilise public opinion against violations of the law
by religious students and the inability and reluctance of the
state to deal with these violations," rally organiser Shireen
Mazari told AFP.


Baton-wielding female and male students of two schools attached
to the Lal Masjid or Red Mosque in Islamabad have launched so-
called morality patrols targeting music and video shops and local
brothels.


The mosque's leader, Abdul Aziz, earlier this month announced the
creation of a self-styled Islamic court and threatened the
government with suicide attacks if it tried to shut the court
down.


The court then issued a fatwa or Islamic decree calling for the
sacking and punishment of Tourism Minister Nilofar Bakhtiar after
she was pictured hugging a foreign paragliding instructor after a
charity event.


The government of military ruler President Pervez Musharraf has
been in negotiations with the mosque's leaders in a bid to avert
a potentially violent confrontation.


"The government should take very stern action against the
rowdyism being demonstrated by the mosque's administration,"
leading rights activist A.H. Nayyar told AFP.


Thousands of people marched in Karachi on Sunday against the
radical mosque, while rights groups staged a similar rally in
Islamabad on April 5.

