

Former CIA operative Luis Posada Carriles, wanted by Cuba and
Venezuela for the deadly downing of a Cuban jet, has been freed
on bond in Texas, police said Thursday.


"He was out of here this morning," Jerry Payan, a police officer
in charge of inmates said, after Posada paid 350,000 dollars to
be released pending trial May 11 for immigration fraud and other
charges.


Earlier this month a US judge here said the Cuban-born Venezuelan
national could be released on bail on condition that he remain
confined to his Miami home and submit to "electronic monitoring,"
according to the text of the order by the federal court in El
Paso.


Posada Carriles, a fierce opponent of communist Cuban President
Fidel Castro, was convicted of masterminding the downing of a
Cuban jet off Barbados in 1976 in which 73 people were killed.


He was detained in Venezuela in 1976 and convicted in the case,
but fled prison in 1985.


He was also sentenced to eight years' jail in Panama in a bomb
plot to assassinate Castro during an Ibero-American summit there
in 2000, but was pardoned by outgoing president Mireya Moscoso.


Posada Carriles was detained by US immigration officials in May
2005 for entering the United States illegally.


US officials have refused to release Posada Carriles to Venezuela
or Cuba, claiming he might be tortured. But they had also refused
to free him, calling him a threat to national security.


Havana and Caracas accuse Washington of harboring a known
terrorist.


US immigration authorities criticized the judge's release order,
and said that Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officials
would arrest Posada Carriles.


Declassified US documents show that Posada Carriles worked for
the CIA from 1965 to June 1976. He reportedly helped the US
government ferry supplies to the Contra rebels that waged a
bloody campaign to topple the socialist Sandinistas in Nicaragua
in the 1980s.

