

Russia's First Deputy Prime Minister Sergei Ivanov rejected on
Thursday an overture from the United States to cooperate on
building a missile shield in Europe, Russian news agencies
reported.


"I honestly see no basis for speaking of possible cooperation on
a strategic missile shield," Ivanov was quoted by Interfax as
saying.


Washington has tried to ease Russia's fears about the planned
missile shield by offering to share the system's threat warnings
and otherwise cooperate.


Ivanov held firm to Russia's criticism of the shield, however,
saying: "We cannot understand what Eastern Europe needs this
system for."


"What's more, a cheaper counter-measure can be found for any such
system," he said.


Washington announced plans in January to extend its anti-missile
shield into Europe by installing interceptors in Poland and a
radar system in the Czech Republic.


Russia has responded angrily, rejecting the US contention that
the shield was meant to protect against a possible attack from
Iran, suggesting instead it would be directed against Russia.


Ivanov and US Defense Secretary Robert Gates may discuss the
missile shield during a Moscow meeting next week, Ivanov said.


Senior US, NATO and Russian officials were also discussing the
plans during talks at NATO headquarters in Brussels on Thursday.


However Russian Air Force chief Vladimir Mikhailov on Thursday
played down the missile shield's potential threat to Russia.


"These systems don't provide any particular danger to us.... They
have more political weight than military," he said, Interfax
reported. "If they have money and nothing else to do with it, let
them build it."

