

The Romanian parliament voted on Thursday to suspend President
Traian Basescu in a first step to impeaching him, the president
of the lower house said.


Prime Minister Calin Tariceanu, who has been in a long-running
feud with the president, said: "I ask Traian Basescu to honour
his own decision to resign and cut all ties with the presidency".


The president has said he would resign if parliament voted to
suspend him. This would force a new presidential election which
he would stand in.


The 55-year-old remains a popular figure in Romania and could win
back his post.


Basescu's close collaborators said he would announce his
resignation after his suspension has been made official, which
should occur within 48 hours of the vote.


Opposition members say Basescu violated the constitution by
acting in a partisan way and violating his role as mediator.


Basescu's impeachment must be approved in a referendum to occur
within 30 days after Thursday's vote.


A total of 322 members of parliament voted for his suspension,
with 108 voting against. Ten abstained.


He was accused of 19 constitutional violations, including
"controlling through those close to him all state institutions,
of interfering in the law and protecting the interests of the
mafia in the Romanian economy."


Opposition members also blame him for the country's political
crisis, notably his criticisms of Tariceanu and his threats to
call legislative elections.


Basescu, in power since 2004, has been in a long-running feud
with the prime minister who sacked ministers from Basescu's
Democrat party in a government reshuffle several weeks ago.


The Social Democrat head of the Senate, Nicolar Vacaroiu, will
take over presidential duties until a referendum is held. In the
event Basescu resigns, he would fulfill Basescu's functions until
presidential elections are held in three months' time.

