

US President George W. Bush will visit Rome and the Vatican on
June 9 after the Group of Eight summit in Germany, the Italian
foreign ministry said Thursday.


The programme of the visit, which comes as several issues are
straining relations between Washington and Rome, is still being
finalised, the ministry told a weekly press briefing.


Bush will meet Prime Minister Romano Prodi and have an audience
with Pope Benedict XVI at the Vatican after the June 6-8 G8
summit in Germany.


The announcement of the visit came two days after the murder
trial in absentia opened in Rome of the US marine who shot dead
the deputy director of Italy's military intelligence Nicola
Calipari outside Baghdad in March 2005.


Another court will begin trying 26 US agents in absentia on June
8 for the February 2003 kidnapping of an Egyptian imam in Milan
in the first case involving the CIA's "extraordinary rendition"
programme under which terrorism suspects are sent home to
countries known to practise torture.


Italy's handling of a hostage crisis last month that involved the
swap of five Taliban prisoners for a kidnapped Italian journalist
was sharply criticised by Washington.


And Italy's military mission in Afghanistan faces fierce
opposition by left-wing politicians here, as well as a plan to
enlarge a US base in northern Italy.


Strains have also occurred in the business arena. US Ambassador
to Rome Ronald Spogli on Thursday branded Italy a country "with
unpredictable rules" after US telecommunications giant AT&T
dropped a bid to take over Telecom Italia.

