

US Defence Secretary Robert Gates urged Iraq on Thursday to speed
up its reconciliation efforts, warning that America's commitment
to the war-torn country was not "open-ended".


On a previously unannounced visit to Iraq -- his third since
taking over as defence secretary -- Gates said the passing of
laws to reintegrate former Baathists into public life and to
distribute oil revenues was crucial for speedy reconciliation
between Shiite and Sunni communities.


"I know it's difficult ... but it is very important that they
spend every effort to get this legislation done as quickly as
possible," Gates told reporters travelling with him to Iraq.


"It's not that these laws are going to change the situation
immediately, but the ability to get them done communicates a
willingness to work together -- all of the parts of the Iraqi
government -- to begin to solve these problems."


Urging "faster progess" on reconciliation efforts, Gates said
that Iraqis have to know that the American support "is not an
open-ended commitment."


Gates acknowledged the long history of suspicion between the
Shiite, Sunni and Kurdish communities and said that reaching a
broad agreement satisfying their sectarian interests is "probably
harder than they anticipated."


Gates also held talks with senior US commanders near the former
rebel bastion of Fallujah, west of Baghdad, and discussed the
latest bombing blitz to hit Baghdad which killed more than 200
people since Wednesday.


The bombing campaign has dealt a savage blow to the US-backed
security crackdown launched in Baghdad on February 14 in a bid to
quell the daily bloodshed.

