

Iran's lead nuclear negotiator Ali Larijani agreed in a telephone
call with EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana Thursday to
resume their talks on April 25, state television said.


"In accepting the convening of a new round of negotiations, Ali
Larijani told Mr Solana that, while insisting on its absolute
rights regarding its nuclear programme, Iran is ready to
negotiate with the concerned parties," the television said.


"The two sides have agreed to resume negotiations next
Wednesday," it added without giving a venue for the talks.


The UN Security Council imposed new sanctions against Iran on
March 24 after it repeatedly ignored ultimatums to suspend
uranium enrichment.


But the council also charged Solana with contacting Iranian
officials about the possibility of renewed talks.


The EU top diplomat has since held a series of telephone calls
with Larijani in a bid to find common ground on the best
framework for a return to the negotiating table.


The international community has been insisting that Iran must
first suspend uranium enrichment before talks can resume, while
Iran insists any suspension should be a matter for the
negotiations themselves.


The sensitive process, which can make fuel for nuclear power
stations, or in highly extended form the fissile core of an
atomic warhead, lies at the centre of Western concerns about
Iran's intentions.


After the Security Council adopted the new sanctions tightening
an earlier package approved in December, Solana stressed that
diplomacy remained the European Union's preferred means of
addressing international concerns.


"The door to negotiations is open; I hope we can together find a
way to go through it," he said.

