

Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said on Thursday that a UN
plan for supervised independence for the Serbian province of
Kosovo had "failed".


Lavrov, who was in Belgrade ahead of a UN Security Council debate
on UN envoy Martti Ahtisaari's recommendation to grant Kosovo
internationally supervised independence said: "Mr Ahtisaari's
plan has failed".


Ahtisaari's plan for Kosovo was not successful Lavrov said: "as
it has failed to take into a consideration the interest of one
side and because of an attempt to allegedly impose a soluution in
the name of United Nations".


Russia wants further negotiations on the future status of the
disputed province in order to try to reach a compromise between
Serbia and Kosovo Albanian leaders.


Ahtisaari's plans went to the security council after more than a
year of largely fruitless negotiations between Belgrade and
Pristina.


Kosovo has been administered by a United Nations mission since a
1999 NATO bombing campaign drove out Serb forces over a brutal
crackdown on the province's independence-seeking ethnic Albanian
majority.


Belgrade hopes at least nine of the Council's 15 members,
including veto- wielding Russia and China, will block any new
resolution that would strip Serbia of sovereignty over the
province it sees as the country's historic heartland.


Such a resolution would enable Kosovo's ethnic Albanian-dominated
parliament to declare independence, which would in turn be
recognised by countries that support it.

