

The Polish and Ukrainian prime ministers vowed Thursday to work
together closely to deliver a 'perfect' European Championships in
2012.


"Together, we will do everything to organise these championships
to perfection so that they bring our two countries satisfaction
and glory," Polish Prime Minister Jaroslaw Kaczynski said at a
joint press conference with his Ukrainian counterpart, Viktor
Yanukovich.


Poland and its eastern neighbour Ukraine beat Italy and joint
bidders Hungary and Croatia to win the right to host the
quadrennial Euro 2012 tournament that will bring together
Europe's 16 best footballing nations.


It will be the first time that either Poland or Ukraine have
hosted a major football championship, and the two countries
pledged immediately after the announcement was made by UEFA in
Cardiff to do the necessary work to bring their infrastructure up
to scratch.


"For the next few years, we will have the opportunity to show how
two great, Slavic nations are able to work together," Kaczynski
said at Thursday's press conference.


Yanukovich announced that a bilateral committee will be set up to
coordinate Euro 2012 preparations and to ensure that the two
countries are given all the financial help they will need to rise
"to this great challenge."


"We will dig deep into our budgets and will open credit lines"
with European and private funding bodies, Yanukovich said.


"We know people who love sport and football even more than
money," he said.

