

A Security Council mission will visit Belgrade and Pristina next
week to discuss the UN plan for the supervised independence of
the breakaway Serbian province of Kosovo, Britain's UN envoy said
Thursday.


"I expect the fact-finding mission of the Security Council to be
in Belgrade on Thursday (April 26) and in Pristina on Friday,"
Emyr Jones Parry told reporters.


Jones Parry, who chairs the 15-member council for this month,
said the mission, which was requested by Russia, would stop over
in Brussels for briefings by the European Union and NATO on his
way to Belgrade.


UN officials said Belgian Ambassador Johan Verbeke would lead the
council mission.


Last week, Russia's UN envoy Vitaly Churkin said the mission
would take stock of the situation on the ground and conduct a
"comprehensive review of implementation" of Council Resolution
1244 on Kosovo's future status.


Security Council 1244, adopted in 1999, authorizes the United
Nations to facilitate a political process to determine the future
status of Kosovo, a Serbian province with a predominantly ethnic
Albanian population.


In Belgrade, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov warned
Thursday that any attempts to unilaterally recognize the
independence of Kosovo could destabilize Serbia and the Balkan
region.


"Any solution related to the problem of Kosovo must be acceptable
for Belgrade and Pristina. Any attempt at a unilateral solution
that would be imposed is absolutely unacceptable," he added.


Lavrov, who was in Belgrade ahead of a Security Council debate on
UN envoy Martti Ahtisaari's recommendation to grant Kosovo
internationally supervised independence also said: "Mr
Ahtisaari's plan has failed."


Russia wants further negotiations on the future status of the
disputed province in order to try to reach a compromise between
Serbia and Kosovo Albanian leaders.

