

European exchanges wilted for the second straight day Thursday on
fears that an overheated Chinese economy could spark a rise in
interest rates and a downturn on the Chinese stock market.


Shares in European companies have also been dampened since
Wednesday by expectations of increased interest rates in the
eurozone and Britain even though the euro and pound are strong.


But on Thursday concern was focused on China, where the economy
expanded 11.1 percent year-on-year in the first quarter, beating
the People's Bank of China's projected growth of 10.2 percent.


The strong data boosted expectations the Chinese central bank
would hike interest rates to avert overheating. That in turn
could reduce demand for imported raw materials and weaken
prospects for the European mining sector, dealers said.


In London the FTSE 100 index shed 0.14 percent to finish at
6,440.60 while in Paris the CAC 40 fell 0.12 percent to 5,829.04.
In Frankfurt the Dax gave up 0.54 percent to end the session at
7,242.73.


The Euro Stoxx 50 index of leading eurozone shares gave up 0.44
percent to end the session at 4,449.93.


On the currency market the euro traded close to its record high,
1.3666 dollars.


The single European currency in late trade eased back to 1.3605
dollars from 1.3607 late Wednesday in New York.


In New York the leading Dow Jones Industrial Average share index
was lower Thursday morning after striking a record high a day
earlier following some sharp falls on Asian stock markets,
particularly in China.


Analysts said the Asian market declines would likely take some
steam out of the US market and said they expected some pullback
in American shares.


At 1440 GMT, the leading blue chip Dow index was down 0.18
percent at 12,781.24 after striking an all-time closing high of
12,803.84 points on Wednesday.


The tech-rich Nasdaq composite had dropped 0.34 percent to
2,502.05.


"The catalyst for the down move is fear of a rate hike in China
and an associated 4.5 percent drop in the Shanghai (stock)
market," said Dick Green, a president at Briefing.com.


In London mining issues, particularly exposed to fluctuations in
the Chinese economy, came under pressure. Vedanta fell 1.86
percent to close at 1,374 pence while Rio Tinto gave up 1.35
percent o finish at 3,077 pence.


In Paris construction group Eiffage plunged 5.08 percent to
105.84 euros following a takeover bid from Spanish peer Sacyr
that was skeptically received by market analysts.


The bank Societe Generale added 0.95 percent to reach 144.87
euros on rumors of takeover interest by Bank of America or
UniCredit of Italy.


In Frankfurt automaker DaimlerChrysler suffered from reports that
the United Auto Workers union in the United States would oppose
the sale of its US subsidiary Chrysler. DaimlerChrysler fell 1.74
percent to 59.40 euros.


Elsewhere there were declines of 0.72 percent to 42,974 in Milan,
0.23 percent to 9,256.79 in Zurich, 0.49 percent to 528.66 in
Amsterdam, 0.33 percent to 14,821.70 in Madrid and 0.58 percent
to 4,549.94 in Brussels.


In Asia, the Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading
shares dropped 1.67 percent close at 17,371.97 points on
Thursday.


Hong Kong's key Hang Seng Index dived 2.30 percent to 20,299.71
points as profit-taking gathered pace after China's economic data
reinforced worries that mainland authorities may take further
measures to rein in surging growth, dealers said.


Chinese share prices slumped 4.52 percent on Thursday.

