

NBC television on Thursday defended its decision to broadcast a
venom-filled tirade sent to it by the disturbed loner who gunned
down 32 of his classmates at Virginia Tech University.


"The decision to run this video was reached by virtually every
news organization in the world, as evidenced by coverage on
television, on websites and in newspapers," the network said in a
statement on its website.


"We have covered this story -- and our unique role in it -- with
extreme sensitivity, underscored by our devoted efforts to
remember and honor the victims and heroes of this tragic
incident. We are committed to nothing less," NBC said, one day
after it first broadcast still photos and videotaped footage it
received from gunman Cho Seung-Hui apparently posted during a
two-hour interlude in Monday's shooting rampage.


The decision to broadcast Cho's disturbing rant met with
condemnation from experts who said the publicity could encourage
copy-cat assaults by troubled individuals willing to kill and die
for similar national attention.


But the television network insisted that there were compelling
reasons to broadcast the footage.


"We believe it provides some answers to the critical question,
'why did this man carry out these awful murders?'" NBC's
statement read.


The network added that the decision to air the material from Cho
was reached only after careful deliberation.


"NBC News took careful consideration in determining how the
information should be distributed. We did not rush the material
onto air, but instead consulted with local authorities, who have
since publicly acknowledged our appropriate handling of the
matter.


NBC said it now is restricting how frequently it airs the
footage.


"Beginning this morning, we have limited our usage of the video
across NBC News, including (sister cable television network)
MSNBC, to no more than 10 percent of our airtime," the network
said.

