

Having umpires wired-up to new technology at the World Cup to
improve decision- making is a money well spent,  according to
world cricket's leading official Simon Taufel.


At the Super Eight stages of the World Cup, umpires have been
able to listen into the stump microphones for thin edges that may
not easily be detectable in windy stadia or because of crowd
noise.


"I regard it as money well spent by the ICC. I would like to see
it continue and especially in series like India against Pakistan
which have huge intensity and noise around the grounds," said 35
-year-old Taufel.


The ICC, which used the innovation for the first time in the 2004
Champions Trophy in England, hoped the new facility will add to
an already impressive correct decision making percentage of
around 94 percent among elite umpires.


The tall Australian, who won the ICC's best umpires' award for
the last three consecutive years, said the innovation can serve
more than one purpose.


"There is a dual nature to the technology and the assistance it
gives to the umpires. There is the functionality that allows us
to hear bat on ball in noisy environments but, in addition to
that, it provides digital communications between match
officials."


Taufel said the wired-up facility is without interference.


"We don't get radio interference as we may have got in the past
through use of walkie-talkies and the closed-loop communications
network really does help with match management and clearer
communication with the third umpire in the issue of referrals.


"It's not just about hearing bat on ball either. We can also
monitor conversations around the stumps at that end too and that
allows us to address issues so that if we happen to detect
anything between players we can cool things down before they get
too heated.


"That is a real advantage rather than a disadvantage."


The ICC said that the experiment of wiring the umpires could be
used in future bilateral series, where feasible.

