

A controversial portrait offered for sale as the only existing
painting of English author Jane Austen failed to find a buyer
when it went up for auction in New York on Thursday.


The painting, which depicts a young woman in a full-length white
dress holding a green parasol, failed to reach its reserve price,
Christie's auction house said. It had been expected to fetch
between 400,000 and 800,000 dollars.     The so- called Rice
Portrait, described by Christie's as one of the world's most
intriguing literary portraits, was believed to have been painted
by British painter Ozias Humphry and is owned by Austen's direct
descendants.


The controversy over the portrait goes back to the 1940s, when
leading Austen scholar R.W. Chapman said that the fashions in the
picture dated from 1805 or later, and not from the late 1780s,
when it was supposedly painted.


Another debate has focused on the supplier's stamp on the reverse
of the original canvas. Detractors say the merchant's mark does
not fit with the period, while Christie's disputed both
arguments.


"On the basis of its provenance, authorship and acceptance from
within her own family from as early as 1817 (the year of Austen's
death), the Rice Portrait has substantial and credible claim to
be accepted as the only portrait painted in oils by a
professional artist of Jane Austen," it said.


Austen, who is considered one of England's most accomplished
writers, is best known for novels including Pride and Prejudice,
Sense and Sensibility, Emma and Persuasion.

