

The White House on Thursday warned Iran of possible new sanctions
after the UN nuclear watchdog reported that Tehran had begun
sensitive nuclear work at a key site in defiance of UN
resolutions.


"Iran's leaders continue to lead their proud people down a path
of further isolation. While their leaders see this as an advance,
it is only a step backward," said US National Security Council
spokesman Gordon Johndroe.


Johndroe spoke after the International Atomic Energy Agency said
in a letter that Iran has started feeding uranium gas for
enrichment at a nuclear plant where it has installed over 1,300
centrifuges.


"The IAEA's letter demonstrates the Iranian government's
continued defiance of the international community," said
Johndroe. "Iran's actions may only lead them to more sanctions."


Iran has assembled eight cascades of 164 centrifuges each -- a
total of 1,312 of the machines which turn uranium gas into
enriched uranium for use as either nuclear reactor fuel or to be
the explosive core of atom bombs -- at a heavily- bunkered
underground facility in Natanz.


"Some UF6 (uranium hexafluoride gas) is being fed into those
cascades," International Atomic Energy Agency head of safeguards
Ollie Heinonen said in a letter sent Wednesday to Iran's
ambassador to the IAEA, Ali Asghar Soltanieh.


Pushed by fears Iran is secretly developing nuclear weapons, the
UN Security Council has imposed sanctions on Iran for failing to
halt uranium enrichment.


But Iran has said it wants to press ahead with large-scale
enrichment at Natanz, far beyond what were previously only
research levels.

