

A humanitarian catastrophe is looming in Somalia unless heavy
fighting subsides and access for relief aid is opened up,
especially around Mogadishu, a United Nations official said
Thursday.


"Unless something is done, the humanitarian crisis is going to
turn into a catastrophe very soon," Eric Laroche, the UN's
humanitarian coordinator in Somalia told journalists.


Laroche said relief deliveries to thousands of displaced people
were being blocked by Somali government forces, UN aircraft were
being shot at, corpses were lying in the streets of the capital,
a cholera or diarrhoea epidemic is taking hold in the country and
new flooding is likely soon.


UN officials are due to meet Somali government officials on
Monday to discuss the situation, Laroche said.


"There has been no attempt from the TFG (Transitional Federal
Government) for now to help us," he added.


Tensions in Somalia have risen again since Ethiopian forces
helped the UN-backed transitional government to oust Islamists
from Mogadishu at the start of the year.


The Islamists have since vowed a guerrilla war against the
Ethiopians and the capital is in the grip of heavy fighting,
while more than 124,000 people have fled the city in the past two
months according to the UN refugee agency.


"We have been making attempts to reach the Ethiopian authorities.
I have never received an answer," Laroche said.


However, Laroche said access for relief aid in the rest of
central and southern Somalia has opened up in recent months.


A UN delegation was in Kismayo, a southern city that had been
largely out of bounds before, to organise aid deliveries, he
added.


The United Nations wants to deliver relief assistance to some one
million people, including about 400,000 displaced people, over
the next six months.

