

Defending champion Rafael Nadal and beaten finalist Roger Federer
moved closer on Thursday to a repeat of their 2006 title showdown
as both posted easy wins at the Monte Carlo Open.


Federer put negotiations with the ATP over player grievances on
the back burner as he blasted Lee Hyung-taik 6-4, 6-3 to reach
the quarter-finals.


The Swiss ace spent 64 minutes securing victory over the South
Korean.


Nadal, the second-seeded two-time Roland Garros champion, raced
past Belgian Kristof Vliegen 6-1, 6-1, extending a two-year clay
winning streak to 64 matches.


Federer will square off on Friday against Spain's David Ferrer,
who put out Serb hope Novak Djokovic 7-5, 6-4.


Federer also revealed some of the details from a two-hour closed-
door meeting Tuesday evening into Wednesday with under-fire ATP
supremo Etienne de Villiers.


The meeting was also attended by Nadal, who left early because of
fatigue, Player Council president Ivan Ljubicic and Spain's
Carlos Moya.


London-based de Villiers rushed to the Riveria after Federer and
Nadal complained in unison this week of players being left out of
the information loop.


The ATP is set to unveil a revamp of the circuit from 2009, with
Monte Carlo and Hamburg looking like being dropped from top
Masters Series status.


With his diplomatic Swiss roots clearly in evidence, the world
number one however affirmed the players will not simply be
dictated to.


"What we want is that we also have some say, I think we made that
point very clear," he said prior to also meeting with
International Tennis Federation head Francesco Ricci Bitti, whose
organisation controls the Davis Cup.


"We (the players) are speaking a lot in the locker room to each
other now to see what the further plan is.


"For now we need to get together and see, are we happy with what
Etienne said and what Francesco is going to tell me? It is more
to listen and to analyse from there."


He said of the two-hour private session: "We brought our points
across from the players' side and he did his.


"From that standpoint it was a good meeting. No screaming, it was
a normal meeting. We've had different ones before, I can tell you
that."


Federer, the winner of ten Grand Slam titles, is gearing his
season towards a possible conquest of the elusive Roland Garros
crown. He lost the French Open final a year ago to Nadal.


A potential high-profile, quarter-final clash with Djokovic was
ended by David Ferrer, the Spanish 12th seed upsetting the number
six 7-5, 6-4.


Djokovic had arrived as the teenager to watch after winning the
Miami title on hardcourt three weeks ago and reaching the top ten
for the first time to stand a current seventh in the ATP
rankings.


Czech tenth seed Tomas Berdych beat Spain's number five Tommy
Robredo 1-6, 6-3, 6-2 to set up a last-eight match with Swede
Robin Soderling, who eliminated big- hitting Max Mirnyi from
Belarus 7-6 (7/5), 6-2.


French crowd favourite Richard Gasquet put in another laborious
effort before finally defeating Ljubicic 6-3, 6-7 (5/7) 7-5.

