

The leading Dow Jones Industrial Average share index was lower
Thursday morning, after striking a record high a day earlier,
following some sharp falls on Asian stock markets, particularly
in China.


Analysts said the Asian market declines would likely take some
steam out of the US market and said they expected some pullback
in American shares.


At 1440 GMT, the leading blue chip Dow index was down 22.60
points (0.18 percent) at 12,781.24 after striking an all-time
closing high of 12,803.84 points on Wednesday.


The tech-rich Nasdaq composite had dropped 8.45 points (0.34
percent) to 2,502.05 and the broad-market Standard and Poor's was
down 2.56 points (0.17) percent at 1,469.94.


"The catalyst for the down move is fear of a rate hike in China
and an associated 4.5 percent drop in the Shanghai (stock)
market," said Dick Green, a president at Briefing.com.


"The (US) market has become overextended again," he said.


The morning losses came despite robust earnings news from the
financial sector as Bank of America and Merrill Lynch both
reported better-than-expected first quarter profits.


Bank of America posted quarterly net profits of 5.26 billion
dollars, marking a gain of five percent from the same period a
year earlier, in part as investment banking revenues improved.


Excluding certain costs, Bank of America said its quarterly
earnings per share struck 1.17 dollars, besting the forecasts of
most Wall Street analysts who had anticipated earnings of 1.15
dollars per share.


"Bank of America is off to a solid start in 2007 despite a
challenging operating environment," Bank of America's chairman
and chief executive, Kenneth Lewis, said.


The bank's shares were down 73 cents to 51.09 dollars in the wake
of its earnings report and amid wider market falls.


Wall Street titan Merrill Lynch meanwhile announced first quarter
profits of 2.15 billion dollars, marking a hefty 352 percent gain
in earnings from the same period a year ago.


Earnings per share equated to 2.26 dollars as revenues leapt 24
percent to 9.9 billion dollars.


Bucking the market, Merrill's shares were up five cents at 90.71
dollars.


The Dow had struck a record close Wednesday as investors cheered
a robust start to the first quarter earnings season despite
concerns about the slowing US economy.


Bond prices were mixed. The yield on the 10-year US Treasury bond
rose to 4.664 percent from 4.654 percent, but that on the 30-year
bond dropped to 4.834 percent against 4.847 percent. Bond yields
and prices move in opposite directions.

