

Volkswagen supervisory board chief Ferdinand Piech found himself
under heavy fire at the annual shareholder meeting of Europe's
biggest car maker here on Thursday.


Critics argued that Piech's familial ties with VW's new major
shareholder, luxury sports car maker Porsche, created a conflict
of interests with his position as VW's supervisory board
chairman.


"There is an unbridgeable conflict of interests," said the
spokesman for the DSW shareholder association, Ulrich Hocker.


The Piech family is one of the major shareholders in Porsche,
which recently raised its stake in VW to 30.9 percent, thereby
triggering a mandatory full takeover offer.


But Ferdinand Piech, 70-year-old grandson of the founder of the
luxury sports car maker Ferdinand Porsche, is also VW's former
chief executive and has been its supervisory board chief since
2002.


It was Ferdinand Porsche who invented the iconic "People's Car"
or VW Beetle and who entrusted Anton Piech with running VW.


At the AGM on Thursday, British pension fund Hermes was vocal in
its demand for Piech to step down.


But Piech is almost certain to be re-elected supervisory board
chief, given the voting power of Porsche and the regional state
authorities of Lower Saxony, which also hold a major stake in VW.


DSW spokesman Hocker said it was a "catastrophe" that Bernd
Pischetsrieder, who took over from Piech as VW's CEO, had been
manoeuvred out of the driver's  seat of the car maker last year.


Shortly before, he was ejected, Pischetsrieder had secured a new
five-year contract as CEO.


Shareholder representatives calculated that the cost of
Pischetsrieder's ousting at 7.5-15.0 million euros (10.2-20.4
million dollars).


They acknowledged that the VW share price had doubled within the
past year, but much of that was due to the takeover speculation
surrounding Porsche, said Hans- Christoph Hirt of Hermes.

