

The European Union on Thursday agreed to make inciting racism and
xenophobia a crime across the 27 member states, but stopped short
of specifically outlawing Holocaust denial.


The deal specifies one- to three-year prison terms for public
incitement to violence or hatred directed against people defined
by reference to race, colour, religion, descent or national or
ethnic origin.


The agreement, reached by EU justice ministers in Luxembourg,
follows almost six years of wrangling.


Germany had pushed hard for a blanket ban on Holocaust denial --
building on a previous attempt by Luxembourg in 2005 -- but the
bid has consistently fallen foul of free speech concerns.


In order to make the text acceptable to Britain, Ireland and the
Scandinavian states, Holocaust denial will only be deemed
criminal when used to incite hatred.


"Member states may choose to punish only conduct which is either
carried out in a manner likely to disturb public order or which
is threatening, abusive or insulting," the agreement states.


The EU minimum standards can of course be higher under national
law and Holocaust denial is already specifically targeted by laws
in Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, Poland and Romania.


"Attempts to harmonise EU laws on hate crimes are both illiberal
and nonsensical," European Liberal Democrat Leader Graham Watson
said in a statement summing up the British opposition.


"The proposed list risks opening the floodgates on a plethora of
historical controversies -- like the crimes of the Stalinist
regime or the alleged Armenian genocide -- whose inclusion could
pose a grave threat to freedom of speech. The EU has no business
legislating on history," he added.

