

Spanish group Sacyr Vallehermoso has grown in 20 years from being
a small start- up company to be a leading Spanish construction
group capable of making a hostile bid for a top name in French
construction, Eiffage.


Sacyr Vallehermoso is now set on forming the fourth-biggest
construction group in Europe.


This ambition is symptomatic of the rise of several Spanish
enterprises since the fall of Fascist dictatorship, then
membership of the European Union in 1986 to become powerful and
aggressive forces in European and even international business.


Company chief Luis del Rivero founded his company in 1986, with
only a modest capital of 240,000 euros (328,000 dollars).


The business expanded gradually, and then shot to prominence in
2003 when it merged with real-estate company Vallehermoso.


The new group quickly established itself as one of the biggest
players in Spain by making several acquisitions and building up
shareholdings.


Rivero has made external growth and globalisation a priority.


In 2006 the group reported a 12.2-percent increase in turnover
and 31-percent rise in net profit to 542.2 million euros.


In 2006 it invested a total of 8.9 billion euros in various
shareholdings, but this doubled net debt from 923 million to 1.89
billion euros between 2005 and 2006.


The group is the leader in the sector of residential real estate
in Spain, where there has been a property boom, with 12.5 billion
euros of assets. It ranks number two as an operator of motorway
concessions and is number five for construction.


On Thursday it bid 6.5 billion euros (8.8 billion dollars) for
the two thirds of Eiffage of France which it does not already own
with the aim of creating a European construction giant.


It already owns more than 20 percent of the Spanish-Argentinian
company Repsol YPF.

