

Levels of trade between China and Portuguese-speaking countries
have risen by nearly 50 percent in the last year and should
double again by the end of the decade, a conference heard
Thursday.


Trade representatives from eight Portuguese-speaking countries
gathered in the Mozambican capital Maputo heard from a top
Chinese official that trade volumes passed 34 billion dollars in
2006, an increase of 46.9 percent on 2005.


A little over 24 billion dollars worth of goods was imported into
China from the Community of Portuguese Language Countries (CPLP)
while the volume of trade going the other way was put at just
short of 10 billion dollars.


"The aim is to double yet again the volume of commercial
exchanges between China and Portuguese-speaking countries within
the next three years," Zhang Wei, of Beijing's council for the
promotion of international trade, told the conference.


"During the last session of the National People's Congress
(China's parliament) in March, it was decided we should open up
towards the outside world, promote trade liberalisation and
improve the quality of foreign investments.


"In this context, we would also like to invite all countries
around the world, particularly the Portuguese-speaking countries,
to take part in the economic development of our country," Zhang
added.


Mozambican Prime Minister Luisa Diogo told the conference that he
welcomed an exchange of information "on the investment
opportunities for joint commercial enterprises ... in order that
our economic and comercial relationship develops into a win-win
situation."


Apart from Portugal itself, the CPLP consists of seven other
Lusophone countries: Brazil, Angola, Mozambique, East Timor,
Guinea Bissau, Cape Verde, and Sao Tome and Principe.


The CPLP and China agreed to establish a joint forum on economic
and commercial cooperation in 2004. The last two meetings have
been held in Angola and Portugal.

