

A United Nations special envoy urged Israel on Thursday to ease
its policy on the detention of Palestinian children, saying
current practices deepen violence.


"Practically every child I met (in the Palestinian territories)
was in detention or had met somebody who has been in detention,
or whose brother has been in detention," UN special
representative for children and armed conflict Radhika
Coomaraswamy told reporters.


According to figures quoted by Coomaraswamy, 398 Palestinian
children aged 12 or older are today being held in Israeli prisons
among almost 10,000 Palestinian prisoners.


"This kind of detention practice is feeding the cycle of
violence. I think children are getting very hard and bitter
through this experience," she said following a visit to the
Hasharon detention centre.


"Though I do not want to say that for the serious crimes there
should not be punishment... for the minor offences, perhaps a
more rehabilitation approach, and an approach with more of a
restorative justice approach would be more useful," she said.


"Having better procedures, maybe even an option to go through a
judicial process as opposed to a military process which is more
punitive."


Coomaraswamy said she had raised the issue during talks with
Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni earlier on Thursday and her meetings
with other officials. During her factfinding mission, the envoy
also met Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas.


She went on to say that "I must say that I found that children
were extremely despairing in these territories, especially in
refugee camps."


An Israel Prison Service official said in reaction that the
children were given appropriate rehabilitation inside the
detention centres, including education services.


"Many of these children are Islamists and terrorists. There is no
way these children could be rehabilitated in the Palestinian
territories. There is no social welfare infrastructure there to
pull them out," he told AFP.

