

The euro traded close to its record high against the dollar
Thursday while the Chinese yuan surged to its strongest reading
against the US currency since is revaluation in July 2005.


Rising European interest rates are luring foreign investors to
make short-term deposits in euros and pounds, thereby increasing
the value of those currencies on the foreign exchange market.


The European single currency, which hit its all-time high of
1.3666 dollars in December 2004, surged past 1.36 dollars on
Wednesday while sterling hit a near 26-year high against the US
currency.


The euro in late trade here on Thursday had eased back to 1.3605
dollars from 1.3607 late Wednesday in New York. The pound
sterling, after rising to 2.0133 dollars on Wednesday was trading
at 2.0024.


The US currency slipped to 118.37 yen from 118.66 on Wednesday.


The dollar's slide against the euro and sterling has left US
authorities silent, with analysts saying the weak greenback may
be a benefit for Washington and its preoccupation with Asia.


US officials "are not saying anything right now because they're
not especially worried about the weakening of the US exchange
rate, given that it has yet to put unwanted upward pressure on
Treasury bond yields," said John Lonski, chief economist at
Moody's Investors Service.


Lonski said that low rates for US bonds meant there was strong
demand for government debt and Washington was not forced to pay
higher rates for borrowing.


David Kotok, analyst at Cumberland Advisors, said Washington
appeared more focused on the Chinese yuan in the face of a
massive US trade deficit with China, and to some degree on the
yen.


Kotok said the US administration "seems to make its noise in the
direction of the Far East" but is silent about the yen "because
the administration knows the Japanese are weaning themselves from
a zero-interest rate policy."


In the United States and Britain, key rates stand at 5.25
percent. The main interest rate is at 3.75 percent in the
eurozone and 0.50 percent in Japan.


With the eurozone economy gaining momentum, the European Central
Bank is predicted to raise rates in the coming months at a time
when the US Federal Reserve, responding to a US slowdown, is
likely to trim borrowing costs.


The rate differential should make the euro more attractive to
traders, driving its value higher against the dollar.


The Chinese yuan meanwhile rose to 7.7165 to the dollar Thursday.


China's economy expanded 11.1 percent year-on-year in the first
quarter, beating the People's Bank of China's projected growth of
10.2 percent. The strong data boosted expectations the Chinese
central bank would hike interest rates to avert overheating.


The United States has long pressured Chinese authorities to allow
the yuan to appreciate more rapidly, arguing that the currency is
undervalued, thereby giving Chinese exports an unfair advantage
on world markets.


The euro in late trade was changing hands at 1.3605 dollars,
against 1.3607 dollars late Wednesday, 161.03 yen (161.49),
0.6794 pounds (0.6775) and 1.6393 Swiss francs (1.6379).


The dollar stood at 118.37 (118.66) and 1.2047 Swiss francs
(1.2036).


The pound was being traded at 2.0024 dollars (2.0083).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold fell to 681.90
dollars per ounce from 688.75 dollars late on Wednesday.

