

Italy's +39 Challenge is one team for whom this week's lost
racing at the Louis Vuitton Cup has proved something of a
blessing.


+39 Challenge's assault on the America's Cup qualifying
competition appeared to be holed irreparably when their mast
snapped into three pieces after a collision with a German boat
last week.


But with the help of America's Cup defender Alinghi, who stepped
in to lend them their second mast which crucially enabled the
Italians to keep their yacht on the water for last minute trials,
+39 Challenge are still in business.


And back at their base at Valencia's Port America's Cup two teams
of five worked 12 hour shifts to put the carbon mast - measuring
the length of a 747 wing - back together.


Their sleepless nights and hard work was rewarded Thursday when
the repaired mast came out of an oven lent by South Africa's Team
Shosholoza after lamination, ready to be fitted to the boat for
testing later Thursday.


Mast builder Goran Marstrom, a silver medalist at the 1980
Toronto Olympics, who has arrived in Valencia to give the team's
repair work the once over, said: "The shore team have done an
excellent job.


"After repairs the mast is almost brand new, only seven kilos
heavier. With the boats weighing 24 tons its higher centre of
gravity is not perceptible in the slightest."


"It is a very stiff mast, so if on Friday conditions are light,
then we still might decide to use the old one," added Angelo
Glisoni who acts as a liaison officer between the team and the
mast makers.

