

A Russian envoy held talks with Syrian President Bashar al-Assad
on the political stalemate in neighbouring Lebanon on Thursday,
official media reported.


Deputy Foreign Minister Alexander Sultanov also discussed the
rampant insecurity in Syria's eastern neighbour Iraq and the
Middle East peace process, the official SANA news agency said.


The two men agreed that it was "necessary for all sides in
Lebanon to thrash out a national consensus and settle their
differences on the range of issues," the news agency said.


Lebanese politics have been paralysed since last November by an
escalating dispute between pro- and anti-Syrian factions.


Opponents of Damascus have monopolised the cabinet since six pro-
Syrian ministers precipitated the crisis by resigning.


But Syrian ally Nabih Berri remains speaker of parliament, a
position which has enabled him to block the cabinet's legislative
programme, including flagship plans for an international court to
try suspects in the 2005 murder of Damascus foe and former
premier Rafiq Hariri.


Sultanov arrived in Damascus on Wednesday evening from Beirut
where he called on Lebanon's bickering factions to reach
agreement on the proposed international court.


"We do not want to impose anything on the Lebanese. Russia will
contribute to closing the gap between the different points of
view," he said on his arrival in Beirut on Monday evening.


The rump anti-Syrian cabinet accuses pro-Damascus ministers of
resigning to sabotage the court plans at the behest of Syrian
officials, some of whom have been implicated in Hariri's murder
by a UN commission of inquiry.


But the pro-Syrian factions insist that they have no issue with
the court plan in principle and merely want to be consulted on
its drawing up.

