

The 26 NATO allies said Thursday that Europe faces a potential
missile threat from Iran as they sought to reassure Russia that a
planned US missile shield was not a threat to Moscow.


"There was agreement that there is a threat to Europe of
missiles," NATO chief spokesman James Appathurai told reporters
at NATO headquarters after talks on missile defence between
senior alliance representatives.


"Many nations called it a growing threat, but certainly agreement
that there was a threat," he said.


"Iran was named as one of the countries that could potentially
pose a missile threat to Europe and the Euro-Atlantic community,"
he said.


Washington announced in January plans to extend its missile
shield into Europe to counter a potential missile attack from
"rogue states" like Iran, and possibly North Korea.


It would see a bank of 10 missile interceptors set up in Poland
and a radar system to track any attack in the Czech Republic.
This would be linked to an advance warning system somewhere in
the Caucasus.


The move has ruffled feathers in Russia, which is deeply
concerned about its former Cold War foe setting up military shop
in its back yard, and Moscow has threatened to take action to
counter it.


But Appathurai said the NATO allies agreed that Russia had little
to fear.


"There was a sentiment that the missile defence proposals that
are currently under discussion cannot pose any threat to Russia's
capabilities nor change the strategic balance in any way," he
said.


However he noted that the 26 countries agreed that "there should
be, is and will continue to be full transparency not only within
the alliance but also with the Russian federation".


His remarks came ahead of talks Thursday between NATO members and
a Russian delegation, which is expected to outline in detail its
objections to the US missile shield.

