

At least nine civilians were killed and 12 wounded in renewed
fighting Thursday between Ethiopian forces and Islamist
insurgents in the Somali capital, witnesses said.


They said eight were killed when a mortar landed on a bus station
in southern Mogadishu.


"I have counted at least eight bodies, some of them dismembered,"
said eyewitness Hussein Mohamed Abdi.


Another civilian was killed in Fagah district in northern
Mogadishu, said Alaso Haji Warsame, a local resident.


Meanwhile, an Ethiopian military truck exploded after it hit a
landmine in the Lasole area, about 18 kilometres (11 miles) south
of the capital as an army convoy headed to Mogadishu, residents
said.


Witnesses said two civilians in a passing minibus were injured in
the incident.


Four days of fighting that broke out late last month was the
worst violence in Mogadishu for 15 years and efforts to agree a
lasting ceasefire have since been dogged by repeated clashes.


On Tuesday, at least seven civilians were killed and several
houses destroyed when the rivals clashed in southern Mogadishu.


Elders from Mogadishu's dominant Hawiye clan have unsuccessfully
sought an end to the clashes and have accused Ethiopian forces of
breaking the truce they announced after last month's violence.


However, the Ethiopian troop leaders have refused to meet again
with the elders until commanders of the insurgency agree to
attend negotiations.


Addis Ababa deployed its forces to Somalia late last year to help
the weak interim government oust the Islamist movement from the
country's southern and central region.


Remnant Islamists have continued to wage attacks against the
government forces, while their leaders have called for Ethiopia
to withdraw.

