

An alliance of Sunni groups headed by Al-Qaeda broadcast Internet
footage on Thursday of the purported execution of 20 Iraqi
policemen it said were kidnapped last week in the north of the
country.


The Iraqi authorities continued to deny that any police were
missing, however.


Apparent images of captive security personnel reading out their
names and their divisions appeared in the footage, aired by the
self-styled "Islamic State of Iraq" on a website used by Islamist
groups.


They are later shown kneeling in lines, blindfolded and
handcuffed, before being shot with a pistol in the backs of their
heads.


The Iraqi interior ministry had previously denied that any police
officers had been reported as missing or captured, and on
Thursday a senior official from the alleged hostages' home area
disputed the video's claim.


"I called all the security apparatus in Diyala province, and none
of them cam confirm this," said Ahmed Khadran, the government
official in charge of the central Iraqi town of Khalis.


The Sunni militant group had claimed on Tuesday to have killed
the 20 security personnel, said to be from Diyala province, after
a 48-hour deadline given to the Baghdad government to meet its
demands had expired.


In an Internet statement posted last Friday, the group said it
was giving the government 48 hours to release "Muslim Sunni
sisters who are in the prisons of the interior" ministry.


It also demanded that the officers accused of raping a Sunni
woman in Baghdad two months ago be handed over for punishment.


The alleged rape of the woman, who appeared in footage broadcast
on Arab networks saying she had been violated by interior
ministry officers, triggered a bitter row at the highest levels
in Iraq.


Some Sunni leaders promoted her claims, but the Shiite prime
minister dismissed them, alleging the rape was invented by Sunni
politicians to tarnish the police at the launch of a Baghdad
security crackdown.

