

Iranian Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki was in Venezuela
Thursday for a visit aimed at boosting cooperation between the
two oil-rich countries whose governments are among the most
critical of the US administration.


Mottaki was in the South American country "to reinforce our ties,
review bilateral relations, increase cooperation and analyze new
elements of integration and bilateral cooperation," said
Venezuela's deputy foreign minister Vladimir Villegas.


The Iranian minister was scheduled to hold talks with his
Venezuelan counterpart Nicolas Maduro, who had visited Iran last
month. Government officials said it was not immediately clear
whether he would meet with President Hugo Chavez.


The two governments last year signed 29 cooperation accords,
including agreements for Iranian participation in the
construction of factories in Venezuela to produce cars, small
aircraft, petrochemicals, cement and gunpowder.


Both governments are among the most virulent critics of the
administration of US President George W. Bush, and Chavez has
repeatedly defended Iran's controversial nuclear program.


"What Iran is doing is something legitimate, it is developing its
nuclear energy for peaceful means," the firebrand leftist leader
said on Sunday.


Mottaki told Iranian nationals in Caracas Wednesday that Iran
would never give up its right to pursue peaceful nuclear
activities, according to Iran's  state- run Islamic Republic News
Agency (IRNA.)


At the meeting held at the Iranian embassy in Caracas, Mottaki
expressed hope that serious and constructive talks would resume
between Iran and Western countries to settle the nuclear dispute,
IRNA said.

