

A private equity group said its 11.1 billion dollar (8.9 billion
US) takeover bid for Australian airline Qantas suffered a setback
Friday when a key shareholder rejected the offer.


Airline Partners Australia (APA) needs at least 90 percent of
shareholders to accept its offer of 5.45 dollars a share.


But Balance Equity Management, which holds a 4.0 percent stake in
the  airline, said it did not intend to accept the bid due to the
strong conditions in the domestic share market, the consortium
said.


"Airline Partners Australia is considering a range of
alternatives in light of the announcement," APA said.


Balanced Equity said equity markets had appreciated significantly
since the announcement of the APA bid in December 2006.


"Given the current level of the share market, in the absence of
an adverse development in relation to Qantas, or a fall in equity
markets, we do not intend to accept the bid of 5.45 dollars per
share in respect of the shares we manage on behalf of others,"
director Andrew Sisson said.


APA said to-date, it has won acceptances for 29 percent of
Qantas' issued capital and would now extend the closing date of
its offer to April 20 from April 3.


It said with all regulatory clearances obtained, the only
remaining material condition to be satisfied was the 90 percent
minimum acceptance level.


The Australian Financial Review meanwhile reported that another
institutional investor, UBS Global Asset Management, has been
buying shares in the open market to boost its holding from 6.0
percent.


The UBS unit has also raised concerns about the offer price being
too low and could be in a position to block APA from winning full
control of the Australian flag carrier.


In afternoon trade, Qantas shares were down 0.16 dollars at 5.06
dollars.

