

Washington on Thursday urged more international troops for
Somalia after a fresh outbreak of deadly violence in  Mogadishu
that saw at least two soldiers burned and dragged through the
streets.


The grisly scenes came as two dozen people were killed over two
days of gun and mortar battles between masked gunmen and Somali
troops backed by Ethiopian tanks in Mogadishu.


"It's not that violence is unknown to Somalia, but it is
disturbing to see some of the acts that took place recently,"
State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said.


McCormack said around 1,300 Ugandan troops had since arrived on
the ground to help, but added "they are still getting fully
equipped, getting their armored vehicles."


World powers and the United Nations "are looking for additional
troops that might flow in there, because clearly you are going to
need more than 1,300 in order to stabilize the situation," he
said.


The Ugandan troops are part of a proposed African Union
peacekeeping mission of 8,000 to help government troops regain
control and enable Ethiopian forces to leave.


The violence was sparked by a government crackdown on the
insurgents, many of whom are believed to be Islamists returning
to the capital after being driven out with the help of Ethiopian
forces late last year.


The clashes began Wednesday, a day after Somali troops and AU
peacekeepers reinforced their deployment in the seaside capital.


Western intelligence sources have warned that Somalia risks
becoming a terrorist haven if efforts to empower the government
fail in the face of fierce opposition from powerful clans.


Factional bloodletting has wracked Somalia since the 1991 ouster
of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre, leading to a civil war that has
defied more than 14 peacemaking attempts.

