

Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad told French television on
Thursday that he was "not worried" by the prospect of US strikes
against his country.


"We are not worried for two reasons. First of all the
circumstances are not favourable for an attack of that kind. And
I know that there are some wise people in the United States who
wouldn't authorise that," Ahmadinejad told public channel France
2.


He also said he would present "new proposals" about Iran's
nuclear programme and called US and British moves in the UN
Security Council to impose tougher sanctions on Iran for its
refusal to halt uranium enrichment "illegal."


"Of course we are going to make new proposals, good proposals.
Our proposals are based on rights and laws and on the inalienable
rights that all nations possess, not only what the United States
and Great Britain want," he said.


"Uranium enrichment is legal. The American and British positions
in the Security Council are illegal," he said.


The full 15-member Security Council was to meet behind closed
doors at 5:00 pm (2100 GMT) on Thursday to discuss changes to a
sanctions package agreed by six major powers last week followed
amendments submitted by non-permanent members South Africa,
Indonesia and Qatar.


The original draft, crafted by the Council's five veto-wielding
permanent members -- Britain, China, France, Russia and the
United States -- plus Germany, broadens sanctions already adopted
by the Council in December after Iran repeatedly refused to halt
uranium enrichment.


Western powers want Iran to halt its nuclear programme, fearing
Tehran wants to develop nuclear weapons. Iran says its programme
is for peaceful purposes.

