

The boss of French oil group Total has been placed under judicial
investigation, the first step to formal charges, as part of a
corruption probe into a gas deal signed by the company in Iran, a
source close to the case told AFP Thursday.


The judge leading the investigation has put chief executive
Christophe de Margerie under investigation for suspected
"corruption of foreign public agents and misuse of corporate
assets," the legal source said.


He has been conditionally released, but the source was unable to
say what the conditions were.


Being placed under judicial investigation is a step short of
being charged with a crime in the French legal system and it
therefore does not necessarily mean that 55-year-old Margerie is
heading for trial.


A case can be dropped if a judge is unable to sustain his
accusations against an individual.


The French oil company is suspected of paying top Iranian
officials nearly 100 million Swiss francs (60 million euros, 80
million dollars) through two Swiss bank accounts to win a
contract in 1997.


Margerie was detained by French police on Wednesday before being
transferred to a serious financial crime unit a day later,
judicial officials told AFP.


He was interviewed during his time in custody about a contract
that Total secured with the Iranian oil company NIOC for an
offshore gasfield known as South Pars, the source said.


The French judge is partly relying on testimony given by an
employee of Norwegian oil company Statoil who revealed the
existence of a corruption system in Iran during an investigation
in Norway.


According to sources, money was paid to Iranian officials between
1996 and 2003 when Margerie was Total's Middle East director.

