

Sacramento Kings star forward Ron Artest pleaded not guilty to
four misdemeanor counts of domestic violence at an arraignment
Thursday in Placer County Superior Court.


"For Ron, the top priority now is his family. He pleaded not
guilty. The case has to go through the system," Artest's
attorney, William Portanova told AFP. "Meanwhile, the family asks
that their privacy be respected."


In the brief court procedure, Judge Frances Kearney issued a
restraining order limiting Artest to telephone contact with his
wife, Kimsha.


Artest faces a total of four charges, including battery and
corporal injury to a spouse, false imprisonment and dissuading a
witness from reporting a crime.


His wife called emergency services on March 5 to report an
incident with Artest at their Sacramento area home. Artest was
arrested at the home and the charges were filed on Tuesday.


Artest's next scheduled appearance in court is April 5.


The arrest marked yet another ugly incident involving the player
who gained notoriety as a member of the Indiana Pacers for his
role in the infamous brawl with Detroit Pistons fans in November
2004.


The melee began when Artest charged into the stands at The Palace
of Auburn Hills, igniting a wild fight between fans and several
Pacers players.


The 2004 Defensive Player of the Year, Artest was suspended
without pay by the NBA for the last 75 games of the 2004-05
season, a penalty which cost him nearly five million dollars in
salary.


Artest made more negative headlines the following season when he
publicly requested a trade in December 2005. Indiana eventually
granted the surly star's request, dealing him to Sacramento for
Peja Stojakovic.

