

Britain is to hold an annual commemoration day to remember its
role in the slave trade as well as the fight to end it, Deputy
Prime Minister John Prescott said in an interview published
Friday.


He told The Guardian that he expected the day would be sometime
in June, along with the rest of Europe, and said it could provide
an opportunity for the country to consider how it could help
modern day Africa.


Events are being planned to mark the bicentenary of the Abolition
of the Slave Trade Act here. It was passed on March 25, 1807,
imposing a 100-pound fine for every slave found aboard a British
ship.


"Like the Holocaust, we are learning to talk about the slave
trade more openly and more honestly," Prescott told the daily.


"There is a sense of shock and horror at what went on in our
history, and the sheer brutality of it ... We need to get the
proper history told, including the good, the bad and the dreadful
...


"The legacy of this 200th anniversary should be a permanent date
when we ask whether there is more we could do, so that every
year, like (the) Holocaust, we remind people of the horrors."


British merchants are believed to have transported nearly three
million black Africans across the Atlantic between 1700 and the
early 19th century.


Overall, there were some 21 million black Africans transported by
Europeans in the Atlantic slave trade from 1450 until 1850,
according to historians. British merchants were the biggest
participants, followed by the French and Dutch.


The 1833 Slavery Abolition Act outlawed slavery itself throughout
the British Empire. However, slaves did not gain their final
freedom until 1838.

