

Former captain Rashid Latif Friday demanded cricket chiefs come
forward and save Pakistan from near-collapse after the World Cup
debacle.


"Where are cricket administrators who enjoy all sorts of perks?"
asked Latif, of the Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) chief Naseem
Ashraf who resigned after Pakistan team's upset defeat against
Ireland.


Pakistan were not only dumped out of the World Cup following two
defeats but their coach Bob Woolmer also died in suspicious
circumstances after being found unconscious in team's hotel in
Jamaica on Sunday.


Players were interrogated by Jamaican police on Thursday,
something Latif described as the "worst ever" situation a
cricketer can experience.


"No one is trying to let the players get away with all this.
Officials have enjoyed perks but they are now hiding and no one
has tried to console the team. They have left the players in the
worst-ever trauma of their lives," said Latif.


"The former chairman is not picking up his phone and another top
official is in England which shows their lack of responsibility
and respect for Pakistan cricket."


Latif said someone must come forward and take the blame for the
Caribbean shambles.


"Millions of cricket fans want to know what went wrong and why
our players left to suffer miles away from home. The team needs
support but no one is there to lend it and I think this is the
worst possible scenario.


"I tried to talk to one or two players but they were speechless.
They are in a shock and don't know when they will come back home
and what fate lies for them in store in the near future."


Latif believes Pakistan has enough talent to fight back in the
next six months.


"We have won two Under-19 World Cups in the last four years so
that is ample proof that we have quality young players," said
Latif.

