

South Korea face Uruguay in a football friendly Saturday, hoping
to beat the Latin Americans for the first time after three
consecutive defeats that began at the 1990 World Cup in Italy.


South Korea have not won a match against any South American team
since 2001 and have a record of four draws and five losses since
then.


"In as far as we are firmly determined to beat the South American
side, the past record will be meaningless," defender Kim Dong-Jin
told a news conference, according to Yonhap news agency.


Three South Koreans playing in England's Premier League are
expected to lead the team.


Park Ji-Sung of Manchester United, who scored two goals last
Saturday against Bolton, Lee Young-Pyo of Tottenham and Seol Ki-
Hyeon of Reading returned home Wednesday.


Kim Dong-Jin and Lee Ho with Zenit of Saint Petersburg and Cho
Jae-Jin and Kim Jung-Woo from the Japanese league will also join
the national team, Yonhap said.


The South Koreans, in a team-building phase for the Asian Cup in
July, have some confidence going in following a 1-0 victory over
Greece in London last month.


"Uruguay, a football giant in South America, will not be an easy
team," said Lee Young-Pyo. "Playing a good game and winning will
be important, but we will have to learn something from that match
to win the Asian Cup, a more crucial title."


On Thursday the squad, currently 48th in FIFA's world rankings,
warmed up at the Seoul World Cup stadium, where Saturday's
friendly will be played.


The 26th-ranked Uruguayans arrived Wednesday. One of their top
names, Diego Forlan of Spanish league club Villa Real, will miss
the match due to injury.

