

Floyd Mayweather welcomed his uncle Roger Mayweather back to the
gym this week, but there is still work to be done if his lead
trainer is to be in his corner for his showdown with Oscar de la
Hoya here in May.


"When he got to the gym, we picked up where we left off and
things were back to normal," Floyd Mayweather said. "It's great
to have my uncle back, and I never thought to pick someone else
to train me. I truly believe that my uncle is the best in boxing,
and there is absolutely no substitute for what he can do."


Mayweather, 37-0 with 24 knockouts, was without the guidance of
Roger Mayweather for six months and one fight - against Carlos
Baldomir in November - as his uncle served a jail sentence for
battery with bodily harm.


Roger Mayweather had his seconds license revoked by Nevada
officials for his role in a ring brawl during Mayweather's
victory over Zab Judah last April.


Keith Kizer, executive director of the Nevada Athletic
Commission, said on Thursday that Roger Mayweather would be
eligible for reinstatement one year after the revocation, and he
expected him to apply.


"Our next meeting is April 10, two days after the one year
anniversary of the fight where the incident occurred," Kizer
said.


Reinstatement at that time would allow Roger Mayweather to be in
his nephew's corner for the May 5 super fight with de la Hoya
(38-4 with 30 knockouts).


"They tell me the whole world is waiting and everyone will be
watching this fight," Roger Mayweather said. "Just wait until
they see Floyd at his best and the fans will know why the
Mayweather family dominates the sport."

