

Pakistan cricket coach Bob Woolmer was murdered, a police
spokesman said here Thursday.


"The Jamaican police are now in possession of the official
postmortem report from the government pathologist, who conducted
autopsy on the late Mr. Woolmer," said Karl Angell, director of
communications for Jamaican police.


"The pathologist report states that Mr. Woolmer's death was due
to asphyxia as a result of manual strangulation," Angell said.


Deputy Commissioner of Police Mark Shields, said: "I would like
for the killer(s) to turn themselves in."


Shields also said police had seized all hotel records and
security videotapes.


The police statement followed similar reports in two Jamaican
newspapers on the cause of the 58-year-old Woolmer's death on
Sunday.


Woolmer died in hospital on Sunday after being found unconscious
in his hotel room a day after Pakistan were knocked out of the
World Cup following a shock defeat by minnows Ireland.


Pakistan's World Cup players gave statements to Jamaican police
and were also finger-printed before leaving for the resort of
Montego Bay. They were to stay there for two days before
returning home after their early elmination from the tournament.


However, the Pakistan team were furious that they were being cast
in some sections of the media as prime suspects in the
investigation.


"The impression is being given that the Pakistan team are
suspects. This is not true," said team manager Talat Ali.


"We are being interviewed first because we are leaving for
Montego Bay later this afternoon, but other people will also be
interviewed by police."


Team spokesman Pervez Mir had earlier dismissed the suggestions
the death was linked to match-fixing as "totally baseless and
premature".

