

Kobe Bryant's National Basketball Association scoring rampage
continued Thursday as he poured in 60 points to lead the Los
Angeles Lakers to a 121-119 victory over Memphis.


Bryant became just the fourth NBA player in history to post three
straight games of at least 50 points. The others to do it were
Elgin Baylor, Michael Jordan and Wilt Chamberlain. Baylor
accomplished the feat with the Lakers in the 1962-63 season.


Bryant, a nine-time All-Star, connected on 20-of-37 shots and
made 17-of-18 free throws to record his 17th career 50-point
performance, tying Hall of Famer Baylor for most all-time in
Lakers history.


In two wins at the Staples Center this past weekend, Bryant
netted 65 points against the Portland Trail Blazers on Friday,
then scored 50 against the Minnesota Timberwolves a day later.


Bryant also added his name to the NBA record books, tying Jordan
for second all- time for the most 60-point games with four.


This rivals Bryant's most impressive sustained display of scoring
since he poured in at least 40 points in nine straight games
during 2002-03 season.


Lamar Odom's ally-oop to Bryant, who converted the three-point
play, sparked an 11-4 surge as Los Angeles grabbed a 103-95
advantage with 8:40 left in the fourth quarter.


Dahntay Jones' layup helped the Grizzlies pulled within 111-109
at the 4:28 mark. But Shammond Williams hit a 3-pointer from the
corner, then found Bryant for a jumper in the lane to make it a
seven-point edge with 3:43 left.


Odom collected 20 points and 15 rebounds and Luke Walton scored
11 for the Lakers, who have won three games in a row since their
season-high seven-game losing streak.


Spain's Pau Gasol had 33 points and 15 rebounds and Mike Miller
also scored 33 for Memphis, which finished its five-game
homestand with a 1-4 record.

