

Resources giant BHP Billiton Friday said it will invest 1.85
billion US dollars to expand capacity at its western Australian
iron ore operations amid increasing demand from China.


The investment will allow the company, the world's largest
diversified miner, to increase production to 155 million tonnes
per annum from 2010.


The group has already completed two earlier expansion projects
which have brought production capacity to 109 million tonnes a
year.


A third expansion project now underway, designed to take output
to 129 million tonnes, is scheduled to be completed by the end of
this year.


Head of iron ore at BHP Billiton, Ian Ashby, said the latest plan
would deliver large-scale benefits to the company, its customers
and shareholders and the local communities in the Pilbara mining
region.


The project would "further increase the efficiency of our
integrated mine, port and rail operations and represents a key
investment in our ongoing strategy to be more responsive to
customer needs," he said.


BHP Billiton's partners in the Pilbara venture, Mitsui and Co and
Itochu Corp, will contribute to the costs which are expected at
about 2.2 billion US dollars.


By the end of 2007, BHP Billiton will have increased iron ore
capacity by 60 million tonnes per annum over four years, amid
growing demand from China for steel making products.


Ashby said the company was also looking at other options to
expand capacity.


Rival miner Rio Tinto has also committed itself to increasing
capacity to satisfy strong demand from Asia.


The group recently approved a 860 million US dollar expansion to
the Cape Lambert port in northern Australia to expand export
capacity from 55 to 80 million tonnes a year.

