

As of October 2006 US forces had still not secured all of the
unguarded munition sites in Iraq, allowing thieves to keep
stealing war material and stoke the country's violence, a US
government report said Thursday.


The Government Accountability Office said that not enough
soldiers were available to take control of massive arms dumps
across Iraq after the March 2003 invasion that toppled Saddam
Hussein.


"Not securing these conventional munitions storage site has been
costly, as government reports indicated that looted munitions are
being used to make improvised explosive devices (IED) that have
killed or maimed many people, and will likely continue to support
terrorist attacks in the region," the GAO report summary reads.


"Conventional munitions storage sites were looted after major
combat operations and some remained vulnerable as of October
2006."


"The widespread looting occurred because DOD (the Department of
Defense) had insufficient troop levels to secure conventional
munitions storage sites," it said, citing war reports and defense
officials.


"DOD does not appear to have conducted a theaterwide survey and
assessment of the current risk unsecured conventional munitions
represent to US forces and others."


Speaking Thursday after the release of the report, Secretary of
Defense Robert Gates acknowledged the problem while pointing out
that US forces have already destroyed several hundred thousand
tonnes of Iraqi munitions.


"Fundamentally, the entire country was one big ammo dump. And
there were thousands of these sites," he told reporters.


"We're doing our best to try and find them but, given the expanse
of the country and all the other tasks that the military is
trying to carry out there, it's a huge task," he said.

