

Pressure mounted on US President George W. Bush Thursday as for
the second time in two days US lawmakers authorized subpoenas of
White House aides in a controversy over purged prosecutors.


The Senate Judiciary Affairs Committee allowed its chairman,
Patrick Leahy, to issue the subpoenas in its probe into whether
the eight attorneys were dismissed for political reasons late
last year.


The vote came after a House of Representatives panel on Wednesday
agreed that five senior administration officials, including
Bush's top political advisor, Karl Rove, should be summoned for
questioning.


Bush, whose ties with the Democratic-controlled Congress have
been strained over the war in Iraq, has vowed to fight any
subpoenas, accusing the Democrats of a "partisan fishing
expedition."


He did agree on Tuesday that White House officials could be
interviewed privately by legislators, but not under oath, and
without written transcripts.


But Democratic lawmakers say that is not enough, and the issue
may now have to go before the Supreme Court if the White House
refuses to bend.


"We have the right of inquiry and this is a very important
inquiry. I think there could be much more to it than meets the
eye right now and we need to persevere," Democratic Senator
Dianne Feinstein told Fox News.


Leahy agreed, saying: "After a while, you begin to wonder, do we
have an independent judicial system, do we have an independent
prosecutorial system?


"And a lot of Republicans and Democrats have questioned what's
going on. And I think we ought to -- all I want to do is know
what the truth is."


The White House, however, has accused the Democrats of wanting to
turn the investigation into a primetime spectacle.


"What he (Leahy) is talking about is a show trial. That's not
designed to get at the truth, it's designed to sort of scold
White House officials," said White House spokesman Tony Snow
early Thursday.


The White House has already released some 3,000 pages of
documents concerning the December sackings, which it says show
there was no wrong-doing.


And it has stood by the country's top legal officer, Attorney
General Alberto Gonzales, facing a clamor of calls for his
resignation.


The political furor erupted when some of the fired attorneys told
Congress they were sacked because they resisted pressure from
Republican lawmakers over sensitive cases.


While the White House and Justice Department have the right to
appoint and remove all 93 US attorneys -- who investigate and
prosecute court cases for the government -- replacements are
usually only carried out at the beginning of a president's
administration.


Meanwhile, a former US prosecutor who led a major trial of
tobacco companies accused Bush's administration Thursday of
interfering and undermining her case against the cigarette-
makers.


"When decisions are made now in the Bush attorney general's
office, politics is the primary consideration ... The rule of law
goes out of the window," Sharon Eubanks was quoted as saying by
The Washington Post.


"The level of political interference has been unique to this
(justice) department under the leadership of (former and current
attorney generals) John Ashcroft and Alberto Gonzales," Eubanks
told AFP, confirming the newspaper report.


A Democratic congressman, Henry Waxman, followed up on Eubanks's
reported comments by demanding to see copies of communications
between the Justice Department and the White House relating to
the tobacco companies' trial.

