

Prime Minister Tony Blair on Friday endorsed Margaret Thatcher's
decision in 1982 to send a military task force to reclaim the
Falkland islands in the run-up to the 25th anniversary of the
conflict between Britain and Argentina.


On a podcast posted on his Downing Street website, Blair was
asked whether he would have done the same thing as the "Iron
Lady", to which he responded: "Yes, yes I am sure."


"When I look back, I mean I was much, much younger at the time
obviously but when I look back yes I have got no doubt it was the
right thing to do ...


"I think there was a principle at stake which is that you know a
land shouldn't be annexed in that way and people shouldn't be put
under a different rule in that way," he said.


The Falklands War forged Thatcher's reputation as the "Iron
Lady", and this week Pathe Productions, the BBC and DJ Films said
they have commissioned a screenplay about the 17-day period it
took Thatcher to send the naval task force to evict Argentine
occupation forces.


Blair, who entered parliament the following year, said "it took a
lot of political courage actually to do that."


London has occupied the territory since 1833 but Buenos Aires
claims the land as its own amid failed attempts at negotiation
over the Falklands' sovereignty.


Following a number of unauthorised Argentine landings on South
Georgia, Argentina's forces under the military government headed
by General Leopoldo Galtieri occupied the tiny islands off its
southern coast on April 2, 1982.


Britain then sent its task force. More than 900 people died,
including 655 Argentines, 255 British troops and three Falkland
Islanders, before Argentine forces surrendered on June 14.


Argentina returned to democracy in 1983. Buenos Aires and London
restored diplomatic relations in 1990.

