

Cricket Australia (CA) on Friday said Pakistan coach Bob
Woolmer's murder was distressing for everyone involved in the
game but backed plans to continue playing the World Cup in the
Caribbean.


A spokesman expressed sympathy for the Woolmer family but said
the Australian cricket team remained focused on Saturday's match
against South Africa.


Asked if CA supported the International Cricket Council's
decision to continue the tournament, he replied: "Absolutely."


"With the news from the Jamaican police today, our thoughts at
this time are very much with the Woolmer family," he said.


"This is naturally a distressing time for everyone involved in
cricket. We must now allow the relevant authorities appropriate
time and space to deal with their investigation into the
circumstances surrounding Bob Woolmer's death.


"But the focus of the Australian cricket team at this time is on
their match against South Africa on Saturday -- having said that,
our sympathy, condolences and support are with the Woolmer
family."


Jamaican police rocked the cricket world when they revealed a
pathologist had declared Woolmer, who died on Sunday at the age
58 after being found unconscious in his Kingston hotel room, was
strangled to death.


The death followed Pakistan's shock loss to cricket minnows
Ireland and has generated rumours that the former England batsman
was killed because he was about to reveal what he knew about
alleged match-fixing.


Australia's cricketers will play South Africa on the island of St
Kitts and have declared themselves satisfied with their security
arrangements at the tournament.

