

The following is the text of a statement on Thursday from Lucius
Thomas, the Commissioner of Police for the Jamaica Constabulary
Force, on the death on Sunday of Pakistan cricket coach Bob
Woolmer:


"Consistent with our approach from the time Pakistani cricket
coach, Mr. Robert Woolmer was found in his hotel room on Sunday,
March 18, the Jamaica Constabulary Force has updated the media on
all developments concerning our investigations of this case.


"The Jamaican police are in a position to inform that it is now
in possession of the official post-mortem report from the
government pathologist who conducted the autopsy on the late Mr
Woolmer.


"The pathologist report is now available and states that Mr
Woolmer's death was due to asphyxia as a result of manual
strangulation. In these circumstances, the matter of Mr Robert
Woolmer's death is now being treated by the Jamaica Police as a
case of murder.


"Steps are being taken to conclude these investigations which
include collecting statements from all persons who in the opinion
of the police can be of assistance to these investigations.


"In due course further announcements will be made as to the
progress our investigations of Mr. Woolmer's murder.


"The JCF is making an appeal to anyone who may have information
that would help us to identify Bob Woolmer's killer or killers to
come forward in order that his wife, Gill, and his family can
begin the process of healing.


"It is our belief that those associated with or having access to
Mr. Woolmer may have vital information that would assist this
inquiry. We appeal to these individuals to come forward now to
assist us with our investigation.


"Our condolences go out to Gill, Bob's widow and their sons,
friends and members of the Pakistan team."

