

AFP news calendar


Monday, March 26 to Sunday, April 22:


-------------------------------------


Monday, March 26


----------------


ALMATY/YEREVAN: Polish President Lech Kaczynski visits (to 30).


AMMAN: US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice visits Jordan for
separate talks with King Abdullah II and Palestinian president
Mahmud Abbas on efforts to revive the Middle East peace process.


BANGKOK: Ousted premier Thaksin Shinawatra's wife is expected to
appear in court to face tax evasion charges.


BEIJING: Chinese President Hu Jintao to begin three-day trip to
Russia.


BELFAST: Deadline imposed by British and Irish governments for
setting up an autonomous government between Catholics and
Protestants.


BILBAO, Spain: The head of the autonomous Basque government in
Spain Juan Jose Ibarretxe makes new court appearance after
meeting with leaders of the banned Batasuna movement, the
political wing of ETA.


BRASILIA: Italian Prime Minister Romano Prodi on official visit
(and 27).


BRUSSELS: Eurozone finance ministers meet.


CAIRO: Trial of an Egyptian-Canadian citizen accused of spying
for Israel resumes.


CAIRO: Egypt holds a referendum on controversial amendments to
the constitution.


CAIRO: Uzbekistan President Islam Karimov wraps up visit to
Egypt.


HARARE: Trial of trade unionists over a banned demonstration
against the regime of President Robert Mugabe last September.


JAKARTA: East Timor commission hearings.


JEDDAH, Saudi Arabia: The second International Arab Aviation
Security Conference, organised by the International Air Transport
Association (to 28).


JERUSALEM: Israel and Egypt mark 28 years since signing their
landmark peace treaty, the first one between the Jewish state and
an Arab country.


KUALA LUMPUR: Malaysia hosts inaugural Global Islamic Finance
Forum (to 29).


KUWAIT CITY: South Korean President Roh Moo-Hyun visits Kuwait
after Saudi Arabia.


MONTREAL: Opening of genocide trial of Rwandan Desire Munyaneza,
the first person to be tried in Canada under a 2000 law on crimes
against humanity and war crimes.


RIYADH: Arab League foreign ministers meet ahead of summit (and
27).


SINGAPORE: Asia Mining Congress (to 30).


TALLINN: New Estonian parliament holds first session.


Tuesday, March 27


-----------------


AMMAN: UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon visits Jordan as part of
a regional tour.


BRUSSELS: European Union finance ministers meet.


CAIRO: Supreme Council of Islamic Affairs holds its 19th annual
conference featuring representatives from 88 countries on the
topic of Islam and globalism.


COPENHAGEN: Danish conference on how to re-use garbage as
environmentally friendly fuel.


DAMASCUS: Trial continues of Syrian dissidents Michel Kilo and
Mahmud Issa.


JAKARTA: Asia-Pacific bird flu meeting.


LONDON: Queen Elizabeth II and the Duke of Edinburgh attend a
mass to mark the bicentenary of the act abolishing the slave
trade within the former British Empire.


MOSCOW: Auction starts of assets of former oil giant Yukos, which
is in liquidation.


RIGA: Signature of border treaty with Russia (to be confirmed).


SEOUL: Video reunions of separated families in North and South
Korea are held at Mount Kumgang in the North (to 29).


SINGAPORE: Global Security Asia exhibition and congress on
"Homeland Security" (to 29).


YANGON: Myanmar marks Armed Forces Day, the most important
holiday for the military rulers.


Wednesday, March 28


-------------------


BRUSSELS: Mini plenary session of the European Parliament (and
29).


HARARE: The Zimbabwe African National Union - Patriotic Front
begins a meeting to decide whether to extend President Robert
Mugabe's mandate.


HELSINKI: Finnish Prime Minister Matti Vanhanen to tender his
government's resignation to President Tarja Halonen, who is then
due to open the new parliament after March 18 general elections.


JERUSALEM: Anniversary of the Israeli election that brought Prime
Minister Ehud Olmert to power.


LONDON: Bonhams auctions off antique pistols and firearms,
including one which featured in James Bond film in 1964.


OSLO: Three-day conference opens on good governance, attended by
2006 Nobel Peace Prize laureate Muhammad Yunus (to 30)


PRAGUE: World sudoku championships (to April 1).


RIYADH: Arab leaders meet for a two-day summit (and 29).


WARSAW: Ukraine's Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych visits.


Thursday, March 29


------------------


BANGKOK: Verdict expected in the trial of Oliver Jufer, a Swiss
national accused of defacing images of king during a drunken
spree on the monarch's birthday.


BERLIN: German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier to appear
before a parliamentary commission of inquiry into Germany's
handling of a German-born Turk held at Guantanamo Bay for four
years.


OSLO: Former US vice president Al Gore visits and presents the
Norwegian translation of his climate change book "An Inconvenient
Truth."


KUALA LUMPUR: Opening of M-PLAS, an international conference for
the rubber and plastics industries (to April 1).


VILNIUS: European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso visits
(and 30).


Friday, March 30


----------------


ASHGABAT: Meeting of popular council to elect new president of
the council and its deputies.


BEIRUT: UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon visits Lebanon to hold
talks with the country's leaders and visit UN peacekeeping forces
(and 31).


BREMEN, Germany: Informal meeting of European Union foreign
ministers (and 31).


STOCKHOLM: Former US vice president Al Gore visits and presents
the Swedish translation of his climate change book "An
Inconvenient Truth".


Saturday, March 31


------------------


CAMP DAVID, Maryland: US President George W. Bush receives
Brazilian President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva.


KUALA LUMPUR: Deadline for reaching a Malaysia-US free trade
agreement.


KUALA LUMPUR: Deadline for the government to announce a partner
for ailing automaker, Proton.


TAIPEI: Opposition takes to the Taiwan capital's streets to
protest independence.


Sunday, April 1


---------------


DOHA: Qatar holds election for the only municipal council in the
gas-rich Gulf state, the third since 1999.


ISLAMABAD: Pakistan will observe the birth anniversary of Prophet
Mohammad.


PHNOM PENH: Cambodia to vote for local administrative officers in
preparation for next year's general elections.


Monday, April 2


----------------


BANGKOK: Thailand's army-installed Prime Minister Surayud
Chulanont visits Japan for free trade talks (to April 5).


BOGOR, Indonesia: International Muslim clerics' conference (and
3).


BUENOS AIRES: Ceremonies to mark 25th anniversary of Argentine
landings on tiny islands off its southern coast, leading to the
Falklands War.


CAIRO: Resumption of the trial over the ferry disaster in the Red
Sea in 2006 that killed about 1,000 people.


CARDIFF: A ban on smoking in enclosed public places and
workplaces comes into force in Wales.


JERUSALEM: The Jewish holiday of Passover begins at sunset, lasts
until April 10.


KUALA LUMPUR: Court application by blogger Ahirudin Attan, who is
seeking to strike out a defamation suit filed by government-
linked New Straits Times Press.


LONDON: New measures come into force for foreigners who wish to
establish themselves permanently in Britain.


SINGAPORE: Sea Asia Maritime conference (to 4).


VATICAN CITY: Second anniversary of death of pope John Paul II.


Tuesday, April 3


----------------


ISLAMABAD: Pakistan's Supreme Judicial Council to hear charges
registered by President Pervez Musharraf against the country's
top judge.


MOSCOW: Japanese Foreign Minister Taro Aso visits.


NEW DELHI: The start of a two-day summit of the seven-nation
South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation with Afghanistan
expected to gain membership.


TAIPEI: Opposition leader Ma Ying-jeou goes on trial on
corruption charges.


SINGAPORE: Singapore court to hand down verdict in trial
involving a former Malaysian national football coach charged with
match fixing in the local professional league.


Wednesday, April 4


------------------


ANTANANARIVO: Referendum on revising the constitution to
strengthen the powers of the president and introduce English as
the country's official language.


HELSINKI: Official negotiations begin to form a new government,
after March 18 legislative elections.


MOSCOW: Auction of Yukos assets in the Russian oil group Gazprom
Neft.


Thursday, April 5


-----------------


LONDON: Three images of the Volkswagen Beetle from 1977 by Andy
Warhol to be auctioned by Christie's.


Friday, April 6


---------------


KATHMANDU: First anniversary of the start of the "People's
Movement" of nationwide protests that led King Gyanendra to end
direct rule on April 24.


MANILA: Annual Good Friday real-life reenactments of the
crucifixion of Jesus Christ in the northern city of San Fernando.


RABAT: The trial of Akoudad, a Moroccan thrown out of Spain
suspected of terrorism.


ROME/VATICAN CITY: Good Friday celebrations.


Saturday, April 7


-----------------


BAIKONUR: Soyuz vessel lifts off carrying a new space tourist,
American billionaire Charles Simonyi.


Sunday, April 8


---------------


ATHENS/JERUSALEM/VATICAN CITY: Easter celebrations


Monday, April 9


---------------


BAGHDAD: Fourth anniversary of the downfall of Saddam Hussein's
regime in Iraq.


DILI: East Timor presidential election.


DOHA: Two-day forum for gas exporting countries where a gas
cartel could be announced.


PARIS: Campaigning officially gets underway for first round of
French presidential election.


TEHRAN: National Iranian holiday to mark its progress in nuclear
technology.


TOKYO: Bank of Japan begins two-day policy board meeting.


Tuesday, April 10


-----------------


COPENHAGEN: WHO Director General Margaret Chan visits, to take
part in a conference on women and health in developing countries.


HANOVER, Germany: World's biggest industrial fair opens (to 20).


SEOUL: Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao visits South Korea (and 11).


SEOUL: Red Cross officials from North and South Korea meet at
Mount Kumgang in the North to discuss those who went missing
during or after the Korean War (to 12).


TOKYO: Bank of Japan governor Toshihiko Fukui holds a press
conference following policy board decision.


Wednesday, April 11


-------------------


COPENHAGEN: A Danish court to decide whether 26 Danes are
entitled to sue Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen, whom they
accuse of violating the constitution by involving Denmark in the
war on Iraq.


WARSAW: Swiss President Micheline Calmy-Rey visits.


Thursday, April 12


------------------


DHAKA: Tareque Rahman, high-profile son of ex-premier Khaleda
Zia, appears in court on extortion allegations.


TALLINN: Austrian President Heinz Fischer visits.


WARSAW: Moroccan Prime Minister Driss Jettou visits (and 13, to
be confirmed).


Friday, April 13


----------------


YANGON: Myanmar begins its annual Water Festival, the only time
of year when people are allowed to move freely on the streets (to
17).


Saturday, April 14


------------------


MOSCOW: Russian opposition party Other Russia stages
demonstration.


Sunday, April 15


-----------------


JERUSALEM: Israel marks Holocaust memorial day.


SAINT PETERSBURG: Russian opposition party Other Russia stages
demonstration.


Monday, April 16


----------------


VATICAN CITY: Pope Benedict XVI marks his 80th birthday.


LUXEMBURG: EU agriculture ministers meet (and 17).


Tuesday, April 17


-----------------


GENEVA: International conference on displaced people in Iraq,
organised by UN High Commissioner for Refugees (and 18).


HELSINKI: Finland's new prime minister elected in parliament.


ROME: Opening of trial of US marine Mario Lozano for the fatal
shooting in Iraq in March 2005 of an Italian secret agent.


Thursday, April 19


------------------


BRUSSELS: Opening of trial of a Rwandan soldier for the 1994
killing of former Rwandan prime minister Agathe Uwililgiymana and
10 UN soldiers who were protecting him.


HELSINKI: Finnish President Tarja Halonen to appoint a new
government.


MUMBAI: Sentencing due to start for 100 people convicted for
roles in deadly bomb blasts in Mumbai in 1993 that claimed 257
lives.


VATICAN CITY: Second anniversary of election of Pope Benedict
XVI.


Sunday, April 22


----------------


DAMASCUS: Syria holds legislative election.

