

Business software giant Oracle sued rival SAP in US federal court
Thursday, charging the German firm with the online looting of its
software libraries to gain a competitive advantage.


California-based Oracle urged the US District Court in San
Francisco to hold a jury trial in the case and immediately order
SAP and its subsidiaries to return purloined programs and
software fixes or "patches."


"This case is about corporate theft on a grand scale, committed
by the largest German software company -- a conglomerate known as
SAP," Oracle attorney Christopher Hockett wrote in the lawsuit.


"SAP is engaged in systematic, illegal access to, and taking
from, Oracle's computerized customer support systems. Through
this scheme, SAP has stolen thousands of proprietary, copyrighted
software products and other confidential materials."


SAP spokesman Steve Bauer told AFP that the company was declining
to comment on the lawsuit until its attorneys had time to review
the 44-page filing.


The suit contends that SAP responded to Oracle's 2004 purchase of
PeopleSoft by buying Texas-based software company TomorrowNow and
embarking on a law-breaking conspiracy last year to steal
Oracle's customers and technology.


SAP bulked up its sales force to aggressively woo away Oracle
customers, then used the clients' support accounts and passwords
to raid Oracle's software databases, Oracle charged in court
documents.


Oracle said in the filing that it traced more than 10,000
unauthorized downloads of customer "software and support
materials" to computers in Bryan, Texas, where SAP has a US
branch office and TomorrowNow is based.

