

Scotland's Catriona Matthew returned from maternity leave in
style Thursday, firing a first-round 68 in the weather-disrupted
LPGA Safeway International.


After a two-hour delay for a thunderstorm, the first round was
suspended due to darkness.


At that stage, Matthew shared the lead with South Korea's Young
Jo, a shot ahead of another Korean, Mi Hyun Kim, and Mexico's
Lorena Ochoa.


Matthew gave birth to a daughter in December, but her on-course
focus remained as strong as ever with a round of six birdies and
two bogeys that left her tied with Jo.


The pair had to contend with very tricky windy conditions, but
were lucky to finish before the storm broke in mid-afternoon.


World No. 1 Annika Sorenstam had her round interrupted by the
thunder and lightning. She was 1-over through 15 holes when play
was halted.


Matthew, a two-time LPGA winner, opened with a birdie and had
three more in the last five holes in an impressive performance in
the Arizona desert.


"We had three days practicing in the heat so it was a bit of a
shock to have such strong winds today," said Matthew, who said
her main goal this season is to retain her place in Europe's
Solheim Cup team.


"I haven't played in a tournament since last August, so I was a
little worried about how it would go today. But I've been hitting
the ball well in practice.


"I'm lucky that Katie had her grandparents out here and she is
proving to be a really good baby. (Husband) Graeme is still
caddying for me so it's all working out very well."


Sorenstam, a winner over the same course in 2004 and 2005, had an
up-and-down day with the putter. She birdied the fourth but
bogeyed the third and seventh.

