

China is backing away from a new requirement designed to pressure
local governments to clean up the environment after encountering
resistance to the plan, state media reported on Friday.


China's statistical body has asked the State Environmental
Protection Administration (SEPA) not to publish the latest "Green
GDP" figures, citing disputes over the numbers, the China Daily
newspaper reported.


The "Green GDP" project requires local governments to deduct the
costs of environmental degradation when reporting regional and
provincial economic growth figures, part of a bid to stem
worsening pollution.


"Experience has shown that both the theory and methodology of
Green GDP accounting are not sophisticated enough," said a notice
from the National Bureau of Statistics to the environmental
watchdog, quoted by the newspaper.


"There are lots of difficulties in the pilot project."


Environmental pollution cost China 511.8 billion yuan (64 billion
dollars) in economic losses in 2004, amounting to 3.1 percent of
total economic output that year, according to the initial "Green
GDP" results from 2004.


Results for 2005 were to be released this week but the statistics
bureau has asked that they only be given to top officials as a
"reference", the paper said.


Late last year, state media reported that some of the 10
provinces involved in the pilot project wanted to pull out,
fearing it would hit economic growth.


Much of China is an environmental wasteland, as its surging
economy spews massive amounts of pollution into the country's
skies and water systems.


China last year failed to hit state-set targets to cut pollution,
with SEPA chief Zhou Shengxian blaming local-level governments
for putting economic growth above environmental protection.


China said recently it would devise "more realistic" targets but
has given no details.

