

Iraqi Kurdistan wants to drastically increase the presence of
foreign oil companies operating in the region by the end of the
year, the Kurdish energy minister said in an interview published
Friday.


"We are in discussions with a number of other companies," Ashti
Hawrami told the Financial Times.


"It is more likely that the contractors will come (to Kurdistan)
to start with and set up a base to hopefully then invest in the
rest of Iraq."


"It is 15 (contractors) we want to end up with. If we get another
10, I'll be very happy with myself. We need to keep the momentum
going."


Under the terms of a draft oil law expected to go before the
Iraqi parliament in the next two months, Iraq's oil industry will
be overseen by a Federal Oil Council and an independent national
oil firm.


Revenue will be concentrated in a federal account, and
redistributed to provinces on the basis of their populations,
which would give the Kurds around 18 to 20 percent of the
national cake.


This represents a concession from the Kurdistan Regional
Government, which wanted to retain revenues from newly-developed
fields on its territory, but in return they have won the right to
oversee development.


Kurdistan has had an autonomous status since Iraq's defeat in the
1991 Gulf War over Kuwait.


The northern regions of Iraq are peaceful compared to the war-
ravaged country's centre and west where bitter sectarian strife
and a raging anti-US insurgency have left thousands dead.

