

The Kenyan team on Thursday implored its countrymen to pray for
victory as it waited for the weekend's world cross country
championships.


Coach John Mwithiga said the 27-member team had prepared well
enough, but a little prayer was essential.


"We are not going because of an individual, we are not going
because of a certain country, but we are going to compete against
the world cross country teams," he said in Nairobi before the
team left for the venue in Mombasa.


"And we are ready to go and do our duty. We are asking the whole
country to pray for us," he said.


Kenya expects tough opposition from Ethiopia, another athletics
giant.


More than 1,000 athletes from a record 66 countries are expected
to compete in the world championships, to be held in the Indian
Ocean city of Mombasa on Saturday.


The US embassy in Nairobi said earlier this month that alleged
extremist elements may be plotting an attack during the event,
but gave no details of the potential threat.


Meanwhile, Kenyan Muslims called off a planned demonstration
during the event to protest the alleged imprisonment of suspected
terrorists, while the US embassy has warned of a possible
terrorist strike.


They said a series of meetings with the government had clinched a
deal.


"We therefore call off the peaceful procession and demonstrations
planned to take place on Saturday," Sheikh Mohamed Dor Mohamed,
the secretary general of the Council of Imams told a press
conference in Mombasa.


"Mischief might be in the offing by people taking advantage of
the peaceful procession," he added.


Mohamed pointed a finger at the United States, which warned of a
possible attack.


"The US is known to carry out such attacks by proxies," he said.


The government has deployed armed officers from the General
Service Unit -- the paramilitary wing of the Kenyan police -- to
oversee security during the event in Mombasa.

