

Australian swimming great Kieren Perkins has told his successor
Grant Hackett he must remain focused on the Beijing Olympics
regardless of what happens at the world championships.


Hackett, 26, will face his biggest test ever in the 1500m next
week after disruptions to his preparations and the emergence of a
crop of swimmers dipping below the magic 15-minute mark.


He hasn't been beaten over the distance in a decade since he
assumed the mantle from Perkins, who won successive 1500m gold
medals at 1992 Barcelona and 1996 Atlanta Olympics.


Perkins said he had never seen anyone with the self-belief
Hackett has, but warned it gets harder to stay focused as you get
older.


"Let's cut to the cold hard facts. Grant hasn't had the ideal
build-up to Melbourne and he's had distractions," Perkins told
the Herald Sun newspaper Friday.


"As you get older, it gets tougher and Grant is coming to realise
that and defending his title will be a massive challenge."


Perkins said Hackett, the 1500m world record holder who will also
race over 400m and 800m, will need all his experience and courage
to win the title.


"There are potentially four or five guys who can go sub-15
minutes and Grant hasn't had that sort of competition in this
event," Perkins said.


"I think it will take one hell of a swim for him to win in
Melbourne, considering his limited preparation and the fact his
opposition are older and have more experience."


Regardless of what happens, Hackett must regroup for a full-scale
assault on the Beijing Olympics.


"I have never seen anyone in any sport with the will and self-
belief that Grant has and even if he's beaten in Melbourne, make
no mistake, he can bounce back next year," Perkins said.


"The Olympics is the one you want and that's not degrading the
worlds, but Beijing is Grant's top priority.


"He'll be ready for an Olympic defence."

