

The European Union should look outwards more in its next 50
years, Britain said Thursday as the bloc prepared to mark its
50th birthday.


The EU has always worked best when focusing on two agendas:
improving people's lives and adopting an outward approach of
proactive engagement with the rest of the world, Europe minister
Geoff Hoon said.


In a speech at Chatham House, the international affairs think
tank in London, Hoon said he expected the next 50 years to be
marked by greater international engagement on climate change and
combating terrorism.


"We run huge risks if we decide to turn inwards, whether towards
our continent or our nation," he said.


"Yet future enlargement suffers from low public support across
Europe. But the strategic, and economic, case for enlarging to
the current candidate countries and for keeping the door open to
other European neighbours remains as powerful as ever.


"The single market too, must continue to look outwards."


Hoon said Britain would mark the EU's 50th anniversary by
developing learning partnerships between British and continental
European schools.


Events will take place across the 27-member EU to mark the half
century since the signing of the bloc's founding Treaty of Rome
by six countries on March 25, 1957.


Britain has had a fractious relationship with its European allies
ever since France initially vetoed British entry to then European
Economic Community in 1963. Britain eventually joined a decade
later.


Britain, which has not adopted the euro currency, is feting this
week's 50th anniversary in low-key style, as the centre of a
growing eurosceptic zone.

