

The Houston Texans have acquired Matt Schaub from the Atlanta
Falcons and will make him their starting quarterback for the 2007
National Football League season.


The move announced on Thursday comes a year after the Texans
passed up a chance to take hometown hero Vince Young in the NFL
draft, deciding instead to stick with quarterback David Carr and
draft defensive end Mario Williams with their No. 1 pick.


Now, Texans general manager Rick Smith said the club is "working
with his (Carr's) representatives to find a place for him to
continue his NFL career.


"Matt is our starting quarterback.  We'll try to help David find
another place."


The Texans acquired Schaub, a backup in his first three NFL
seasons, from Atlanta for a swap in first-round picks in April's
draft and a pair of second- round picks.


Houston announced the trade at a news conference on Thursday and
signed Schaub, who was a restricted free agent, to a multi-year
contract.


Financial terms were not disclosed, but the Houston Chronicle
reported that Schaub received a six-year deal worth 48 million
dollars.


Stuck behind quarterback Michael Vick in Atlanta, Schaub started
just two games with the Falcons.


Schaub, who turns 26 years old in June, has completed 84-of-161
passes for 1,033 yards and six touchdowns with six interceptions
in his NFL career. But NFL scouts are enamored with his size and
arm strength.


A third-round pick out of Virginia in 2004, Schaub was especially
impressive in his last start, completing 18-of-34 passes for 298
yards and three touchdowns in a 31-28 loss to New England on
October 9, 2005.

