

An influential Communist Party newspaper has urged Chinese
officials to restrain from using force to control the growing
number of public disturbances plaguing the country.


The Study Times, a weekly controlled by the Party School for top
Communist officials, said in its latest online editions that
local governments should resolve such incidents through
negotiation.


Force should only be used in cases where protesters violate laws
and should be avoided as it could just escalate the clashes,
Xinhua quoted the paper as saying.


China has witnessed a rising number of protests in recent years,
especially as the gap between rich and poor has widened
dramatically due to the country's breakneck economic growth.


Many of the protests are linked to land use rights, the
government has said.


There were 87,000 protests, officially termed "mass incidents",
reported in 2005, according to official figures. Complete numbers
for 2006 have not been released.


In the latest incident, thousands of protesters blocked a key
railway line in eastern China's Jiangxi province, witnesses said
Thursday, forcing riot police to disperse the crowd with tear
gas.


The protest in the town of Guixi was sparked by an unpopular
pending merger with a larger neighbouring city.


The Study Times urged officials at all levels to make more effort
to prevent such protests by bridging the wealth gap and cracking
down on corrupt activities such as illegal land grabs that
violate the rights of centuries-old villages.


Analysts have said the party views the rising public tension as a
potential threat to its rule. It has made achieving a
"harmonious" society its top political message.

