

Mazda Motor Corp. said Friday it posted a record net profit in
the year to March as a new more fuel-efficient SUVs in North
America helped offset tepid sales at home.


Japan's fifth largest automaker, which is one-third owned by
ailing US giant Ford Motor, said its net profit grew 11 percent
to 73.7 billion yen (619 million dollars) in the last financial
year.


Revenue was also up 11 percent to a record 3.25 trillion yen,
with operating profit jumping 28 percent to 158.5 billion yen,
the Hiroshima-based automaker said in a statement.


Japanese automakers have increasingly bet their fortunes on eco-
friendly models in the United States, whose own Big Three of
Detroit are in financial turmoil after focusing for years on
larger gas-guzzlers.


Mazda said it benefitted from the introduction in the past year
of a new CX, a "crossover" SUV which means it has the appearance
of a larger vehicle but the engine of a smaller car.


It expected the growth to continue in the current financial year,
forecasting net profit to rise 15 percent to 85 billion yen, with
revenue seen climbing two percent and operating picking up one
percent.


Mazda said it sold 380,000 vehicles in North America in the last
financial year, up eight percent. Retail volume in Europe also
grew 6.7 percent to 301,000 units.


But sales slipped marginally in China to 129,000 vehicles and the
Japanese market remained weak, with sales down 8.6 percent to
261,000 units.


Japan is in the midst of its longest economic expansion since
World War II.


"Private consumption, however, has not fully recovered. This is
especially true in the automative market in which concerns about
sluggish new car sales and other issues still remain," Mazda
said.

