

Ethiopia forces on Friday tightened the noose around the calm
Somali capital a day after taking control of insurgent
strongholds after some of the heaviest fighting in the city's
history, residents said.


With neither shelling nor gunfire for the first time in nine
days, the forces patrolled northern and southern Mogadishu as
residents solemnly collected rotting bodies that were abandoned
in the streets.


Troops on foot and aboard trucks patrolled mortar-blasted
neighbourhoods, where they moved from house-to-house to crack
down on suspected insurgents who melted away into civilian area,
an AFP correspondent reported.


"They are moving from house-to-house arresting people," said
Ibrahim Sheikh Mao, a resident of northern Mogadishu's Suuqahoola
area that was a theatre of the clashes.


"I imagine they have arrested hundreds of people because they
started the operation early in the morning," he added.


"All men are fleeing from the houses because the Ethiopian forces
are arresting them," said Shamso Nur, a woman who lives in Al
Kamin area.


"I have seen seen three men near my house being taken by
Ethiopian forces. I do not know if they were fighters, but they
looked like civilians," she added.


An AFP reporter saw at least 20 men having been bundled into a
military truck.


In northern Mogadishu, residents ventured into the streets and
inside the labyrinthine backstreet of former rebel
fortifications, collecting bodies and preparing them for burial,
AFP witnessed.


"We have collected around seven bodies, including one of a woman
around those area," said Haji Mukhta Hassan, an elder.


"They were rotten and we have taken them to a mosque to prepare
them for burial," he added.


Somali Prime Minister Ali Mohamed Gedi on Thursday declared a
military triumph over the insurgents, after ferocious clashes
killed at nearly 400 people and displaced up to 400,000 others.


Previous battles three weeks ago in the city claimed at least
1,000 people, mainly civilians.

