

Malaysia's Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi said Friday he
was not worried by the return to politics of ex-deputy premier
Anwar Ibrahim, who is campaigning in a critical by-election.


He also stood by his deputy Najib Razak, who is leading the
campaign for the ruling coalition in the poll, and has faced
allegations of links to the gruesome murder of a Mongolian model.


Marking a forceful return to politics, Anwar has mounted a
campaign for the opposition People's Justice Party or Keadilan
for the seat of Ijok in central Selangor state against the ruling
National Front coalition.


The weekend poll is seen as a litmus test of popularity for both
sides ahead of a general election expected before 2009, but
Abdullah said he was unconcerned by Anwar.


"I'm not worried," Abdullah told reporters, when asked about
Anwar's return to the political stage.


"If people want him, he becomes popular, if people don't want
him, he will not be popular. In politics that's what it is. I've
been in politics a long time. I've faced him before," he said.


Anwar was sacked from his post in 1998 by then premier Mahathir
Mohamad and jailed over sodomy and corruption charges, a move
which precipitated the opposition "Reformasi" movement and gave
birth to Keadilan.


He was freed in 2004 when the sodomy conviction was overturned,
but the corruption charge remains.


Intense lobbying was continuing Friday, the last day for
campaigning, in semi- rural Ijok to win over 12,372 voters in a
contest marred by scuffles and slanging matches.


Najib has been at the centre of the fight, with opposition
parties alleging links with the sensational murder of the
Mongolian model last year.


The model's lover, prominent political analyst Abdul Razak
Baginda, has ties with Najib and is charged with abetting in the
crime. Two police officers in an elite squad protecting Abdullah
and Najib are accused of the murder.


However, Najib has vehemently denied knowing the woman, Altantuya
Shaariibuu, or any involvement in the case.


Abdullah Friday threw his full weight behind Najib, expressing
confidence in his character and performance.


"Najib does not have any links to the allegations they have made.
I am confident with Najib as a deputy prime minister," Abdullah
said.


"Those are attacks that should not be made by the opposition
parties. They are personal attacks to win votes," he said.


The poll was called after a state lawmaker died earlier this
month.

