

President Hu Jintao and other top Chinese leaders paid their last
respects Friday to the head of China's official Catholic Church,
who died last week at the age of 76, state press said.


Hu attended the funeral of Fu Tieshan at western Beijing's
Babaoshan cemetery and was accompanied by Prime Minister Wen
Jiabao, head of parliament Wu Bangguo and Vice President Zeng
Qinghong, Xinhua news agency said.


Fu, who was chairman of the government-approved Chinese Catholic
Patriotic Association, died on Friday last week. He was also the
bishop of Beijing and a vice-chairman of the National People's
Congress, or parliament.


The patriotic association largely answers to the ruling Communist
Party and rules the Chinese official Catholic Church without the
blessing of the Pope.


Fu had often sparred with the Vatican over the selection of
China's bishops and other top church officials.


Diplomatic relations between Beijing and the Vatican were severed
in 1951 after the Holy See recognised Taiwan, which China's
communist authorities consider a rebel territory awaiting
reunification, by force if necessary.


The communist leadership has agreed to normalise relations with
the Vatican as long as Rome severs its ties with Taipei and
commits not to use religion to interfere in China's internal
affairs.


The official patriotic association boasts up to five million
followers, while an "underground" or illegal Catholic Church
counts up to 10 million faithful and remains loyal to the
Vatican.


The Vatican wishes to reunite the two churches and, according to
Cardinal Joseph Zen, the archbishop of Hong Kong who answers to
Rome, 85 percent of the bishops of the Chinese official church
are now recognised by the pope.

