

Chinese shares prices closed 0.61 percent lower Friday, coming
off record highs as institutional investors booked profits ahead
of next week's Labour Day holidays, dealers said.


They said property and steel stocks were lower, while banks also
fell despite very strong gains for CITIC Bank on its debut in
Shanghai after the world's biggest Initial Public Offer (IPO) so
far this year.


The overall downturn snapped a 4-day record-breaking streak.


The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index, which covers both A- and
B-shares listed on the Shanghai stock exchange, lost 23.20 points
at 3,759.87 on turnover of 162.82 billion yuan (21.1 billion
dollars).


The Shanghai A-share Index was down 24.84 points or 0.62 percent
at 3,950.84 on turnover of 161.70 billion yuan and the Shenzhen
A-share Index shed 9.63 points or 0.87 percent at 1,098.40 on
turnover of 77.08 billion yuan.


CITIC Bank closed at 11.37 yuan (1.47 dollars), up 96 percent
from its IPO price of 5.80 yuan and after opening at 9.21 yuan.


It is common in China for shares of newly listed companies to see
huge gains on their first day of trade before retail investors
cash out, usually pocketing tidy sums.


CITIC's performance however was exceptional -- some dealers
described it as 'irrational' -- but it was perfectly in keeping
with the charge that has seen Chinese stocks rise more than 200
percent since January 2006.


Authorities and some investors have repeatedly warned that
China's stock markets are seriously overheated and a sharp
correction is necessary to bring prices back into line with what
is considered healthy.


The vice chairman of China's National Social Security Fund Gao
Xiqing was the latest official voice to express worries about a
bubble bursting, saying that current sky-high stock prices were
forcing the fund to reduce positions in equities.


"This market seems to be defying gravity. It's got to come down
at some point. We can't risk that, especially given the nature of
our fund," the Financial Times quoted Gao as saying.


Dealers said there was no immediate reason to think Gao's remarks
had any impact on the day and the modest reverse could be
attributed to some position squaring ahead of next week's
holidays.


"Some investors were cashing out in the run-up to the long May 1
holidays and the profit-taking is also expected to continue next
Monday which is the last trading day (before the vacation)," said
Xu Ming, an analyst at Shiji Investment.


"The speculation in CITIC Bank's A-share debut indicates that the
sentiment has evolved to 'irrational' from 'optimistic', and it
might be better to lock in gains for the moment," Zeng Bo, an
analyst at Changjiang Securities, said.


Property developers and steelmakers were under pressure from
profit-taking, with China Merchants Property Development down
1.44 yuan or 3.79 percent at 36.58.


Wuhan Steel Processing lost 0.41 yuan or 3.53 percent at 11.19
and Angang New Steel shed 0.71 yuan or 3.94 percent at 17.29.


China Merchants Bank was down 0.54 yuan or 2.69 percent at 19.50
while Industrial Bank lost 0.81 yuan or 2.50 percent at 31.58.


The foreign-currency B-share markets, which often follow leads of
their own, were higher, bucking the main A-share lead.


The Shanghai B-share Index was up 2.37 points or 1.11 percent to
215.99 on turnover of 1.12 billion US dollars and the Shenzhen
B-share Index rose 6.47 points or 1.10 percent at 592.54, a fresh
record, on turnover of 1.37 billion Hong Kong dollars (177.23
million US dollars).

