

NATO called Friday for Russia to clarify whether it has actually
frozen its application of a key arms treaty limiting the number
of military forces in Europe.


"The first step will still have to be to clarify exactly what
President (Vladimir) Putin meant," chief NATO spokesman James
Appathurai told reporters, when asked how the alliance would
respond to the apparent move.


"I have seen quotes from presidential advisors saying: 'Well, we
only mean in six months', I have heard some else tell me that he
subsequently said they only mean in one year," he said.


"There will clearly be a discussion within NATO, there will
clearly be a discussion between capitals and the Russian
Federation on what they mean."


Making his last state of the nation speech in Moscow, Putin said
Thursday that Russia could pull out of the 1990 Conventional
Forces in Europe (CFE) treaty until all of NATO's current members
ratified it.


"It would be appropriate to announce a moratorium on Russian
adherence ... until it has been ratified by all NATO countries
without exception," he said.


NATO Secretary General Jaap de Hoop Scheffer said that the 26
member countries had received the news with "concern, grave
concern, disappointment and deep regret because the allies are of
the opinion that the CFE treaty is one of the cornerstones of
European security."


The treaty was signed in 1990 in Paris by the countries of the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and the former Warsaw
Pact to limit military hardware in the region.


It was adapted in Istanbul in 1999 following the collapse of the
Warsaw Pact, in order to limit deployments on a country-by-
country basis.


NATO states have refused to ratify the new pact on the grounds
that Moscow has failed to honour commitments made in Istanbul to
withdraw Russian forces from the former Soviet republics of
Georgia and Moldova.

