

South Korea's Defence Minister Kim Jang-Soo on Friday criticised
the top US military commander in the country for "inappropriate"
remarks about sharing the cost of American forces.


In a US Senate hearing earlier this week, General B.B. Bell said
the future of work to relocate US military bases could depend on
whether South Korea is willing to pay a larger share.


"Without more equitable allied SMA (Special Measures Agreement)
funding, we may be forced to recommend a range of fiscal measures
to the US government, including a review of base relocation and
consolidation plans," Bell said.


Kim expressed regret at the comments.


"It was inappropriate for the commander to talk about the
possibility of reviewing the base relocation project that was
agreed with the South Korean government," he told reporters.


Kim said Bell's remarks appeared aimed more at seeking greater
financial support from Washington, rather than targeting the
Seoul authorities. "Nonetheless, it was inappropriate," he said.


The US has stationed tens of thousands of troops in South Korea
since the end of the 1950-53 war to help it defend itself against
North Korea's 1.1 million- strong military.


The two countries decide how to split the cost for the US troops,
which currently number 29,500, through talks at irregular
intervals.


Last December Seoul agreed to pay 725.5 billion won (790 million
dollars) to Washington this year and the same amount in 2008,
adjusted for inflation.


Last month the two sides agreed to split roughly the 11 billion
dollar cost of relocating US troops, including moving most of
them to a new base at Pyeongtaek, 70 kilometres (40 miles) south
of Seoul.

