

The euro struck a fresh high against the yen and rebounded above
1.36 dollars on Friday as the market awaited US growth data which
could propel the European single currency past its dollar record.


The euro hit 162.84 yen on Friday, its highest ever level against
the Japanese currency, after weak inflation data raised doubts
about when the Bank of Japan (BoJ) would next raise interest
rates, dealers said.


The market was waiting to see whether a poor first-quarter gross
domestic product (GDP) release in the United States would push
the euro to an all-time high against the dollar.


In early European trade on Friday, the euro stood at 1.3614
dollars after striking a more than two-year peak of 1.3665
dollars on Wednesday. On December 30, 2004, the euro had touched
a record high 1.3666.


The European single currency is strengthening against its rivals
on optimism about growth prospects for the 13-nation eurozone and
amid weak data in the United States and Japan.


The BoJ left its key lending rate unchanged at 0.50 percent on
Friday, as expected for a third straight meeting against a
backdrop of lingering deflationary pressures.


"The Bank of Japan is likely to maintain an unchanged monetary
stance at least until after the Upper House elections in July,"
said Paul Chertkow, head of global currency research at The Bank
of Tokyo-Mitsubishi in London.


Investors were also focused on the release later in the day of US
GDP figures for the first quarter.


Dealers said the growth figures would be pivotal to determine
whether the US Federal Reserve cuts interest rates to stimulate a
flagging economy or hold them steady in the face of strong growth
and inflation pressures.


The sputtering dollar had managed a modest rebound Thursday as
traders hedged positions ahead of a key reading on growth.


The "GDP report promises the single greatest piece of event risk
the US calendar has seen in some time," said John Kicklighter of
Forex Capital Markets.


"The world's largest economy has slowed considerably in the past
year and it is expected to have cooled even more over the first
three months of this year."


Economists on average are forecasting a 1.8-percent pace of US
growth from 2.5 percent in the fourth quarter of 2006.


The euro changed hands at 1.3614 dollars, against 1.3598 dollars
late on Thursday, 162.65 yen (162.57), 0.6827 pounds (0.6827) and
1.6425 Swiss francs (1.6436).


The dollar stood at 119.47 yen (119.54) and 1.2065 Swiss francs
(1.2084).


The pound was being traded at 1.9943 dollars (1.9911).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold rose slightly to
673.15 dollars per ounce, from 673.00 dollars late on Thursday.

