

Chinese shares prices closed 0.61 percent lower Friday, coming
off record highs as institutional investors booked profits ahead
of next week's Labour Day holidays, dealers said.


They said property and steel stocks were lower, while banks also
fell despite very strong gains for CITIC Bank on its debut in
Shanghai after the biggest Initial Public Offer (IPO) of the year
so far.


CITIC Bank closed at 11.37 yuan (1.47 dollars), up 96 percent
from its IPO price of 5.80 yuan and after opening at 9.21 yuan.


It is common in China for shares of newly listed companies to see
huge gains on their first day of trade before retail investors
cash out, usually pocketing tidy sums.


CITIC's performance was exceptional but was perfectly in keeping
with the charge that has seen Chinese stocks rise more than 200
percent since January 2006.


Authorities and some investors have repeatedly warned that
China's stock markets are seriously overheated and a sharp
correction is necessary to bring prices back into line with what
is considered healthy.


The vice chairman of China's National Social Security Fund Gao
Xiqing was the lastest official voice to express worries about a
bubble bursting, saying that current sky-high stock prices were
forcing the fund to reduce positions in equities.


"This market seems to be defying gravity. It's got to come down
at some point. We can't risk that, especially given the nature of
our fund," the Finanicial Times quoted Gao as saying.


The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index, which covers both A- and
B-shares listed on the Shanghai stock exchange, closed down 23.20
points at 3,759.87 on turnover of 162.82 billion yuan (21.1
billion dollars). The downturn snapped a 4-day record breaking
streak.


The Shanghai A-share Index was down 24.84 points or 0.62 percent
at 3,950.84 on turnover of 161.70 billion yuan and the Shenzhen
A-share Index shed 9.63 points or 0.87 percent at 1,098.40 on
turnover of 77.08 bln yuan.

