

The jailed founder of South Korea's Daewoo Group, which suffered
one of the world's largest corporate failures in 1999, has been
ordered to list his assets so they can be seized, officials said
Friday.


The Seoul Central District Court said Kim Woo-Choong, convicted
of embezzlement and accounting fraud, would appear in court
Monday to swear that his report is true.


"Kim has been ordered to provide a list of his property," a court
official told AFP on condition of anonymity, saying the move was
aimed at helping prosecutors track and seize his assets.


Kim was convicted in 2005 of masterminding an accounting fraud
involving 20 trillion won (2.15 billion dollars) and borrowing
9.8 trillion won in illegal loans from banks, as well as
smuggling funds overseas.


In November the High Court upheld Kim's convictions but reduced
his original 10-year prison term to eight and a half years. He
was also ordered to forfeit 17.9 trillion won and pay 10 million
won in fines.


Daewoo had debts of 82 billion dollars when it went under in the
wake of the 1997-98 Asian financial crisis. The government was
forced to spend some 30 trillion won to rescue it.


Kim fled the country. As the corporate meltdown unfolded he was
accused of ordering his executives to inflate the group's assets
between 1997 and 1998 to obtain bank loans.


He was indicted in 2005 after returning from six years of exile
overseas.


Before the financial crisis exposed its weaknesses, Daewoo was
exporting goods worth 17.6 billion dollars a year -- 13.3 percent
of South Korea's total exports -- and employed 250,000 people
worldwide.

