

Japanese share prices closed slightly lower Friday after soft
domestic economic data offset the impact of another record finish
on Wall Street, dealers said.


They said investors squared their positions before Japan enters
the Golden Week holidays beginning this weekend.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
lost 28.76 points or 0.17 percent to close at 17,400.41.


The broader Topix index of all first-section shares declined 2.41
points or 0.14 percent to 1,701.00.


Decliners beat gainers 936 to 669, with 124 issues flat.


Volume was 2.26 billion shares, up from 2.03 billion on Thursday.


Ahead of the opening bell, Japan said consumer prices fell for
the second straight month and that industrial output unexpectedly
dropped.


"The economic indicators were disappointing," said a trader at a
European asset management firm.


"Investors continue to pay attention to corporate earnings
announcements and their impact on share prices," he said.


Japanese financial markets are open for only two trading days
next week, and so market watchers expect trade to be thin.


"Investors adjusted their positions ahead of a long holiday,"
said Norihiro Fujito, senior investment strategist at Mitsubishi
UFJ Securities.


"Trade is expected to be thin and share prices are seen staying
rangebound next week," he said.


Steel makers were lower. Nippon Steel was down nine yen or 1.15
percent to 776, Sumitomo Metal Industries fell 14 yen or 2.2
percent to 612, and JFE Holdings was down 100 yen or 1.5 percent
at 6,620.


Nissan Motor edged down one yen to 1,215 after reporting an 11.1
percent drop in annual net profit.


Toyota Motor gained 80 yen or 1.1 percent to 7,320 and Honda
Motor added 70 yen or 1.7 percent to 4,130.


On the foreign exchange market, the dollar slipped to 119.41 yen
in Tokyo afternoon trade from 119.54 in New York late Thursday.


The euro was flat at 1.3601 dollars after 1.3598, and posted a
fresh record high of 162.84 yen before easing back to 162.38.

