

Australian share prices slumped almost 1.0 percent on Friday as
investors took profits after a sharp reverse in commodity prices
overnight, dealers said.


They said here was little local direction and investors were
cautious ahead of the release of US first quarter growth data
later Friday, hoping that the figures will give them a better fix
on the outlook for the US economy and interest rates.


Volumes were heavy, with some signs that investors were looking
to a period of consolidation after the recent record breaking
run.


The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 dropped 60.6 points or 0.98 percent
to close at 6,151.6 while the broader All Ordinaries fell 56.8
points to 6,141.0.


Turnover was 1.64 billion shares worth 8.85 billion dollars (7.31
billion US), with falls outnumbering rises 686 to 523 and 374
stocks unchanged.


While some still see further gains for a market which has
consistently broken into record territory in recent weeks, some
have begun to bet on a pullback, CMC Markets senior dealer Josh
Whiting said.


"The market remained stuck within a range during this holiday-
shortened week, unable to follow its US counterpart to new highs
but avoiding any steep losses," he said.


Whiting said volatility was likely to remain elevated thanks to
whippy offshore markets and the central bank's meeting next week
to decide on a possible interest rate hike.


The heavyweight mining stocks led the market lower on the
downturn in metals prices. BHP Billiton lost 0.83 dollars or 2.75
percent to 29.39 dollars while Rio Tinto fell 2.19 dollars or
2.58 percent to 82.70 dollars.


Among the energy providers, Woodside Petroleum fell 0.10 to 39.25
and Oil Search was down 0.07 to 3.58 while Santos gained 0.10 to
11.25.


The major banks were also lower. The National Australia Bank fell
0.03 to 43.16, Commonwealth Bank dropped 0.06 to 53.04, ANZ
slipped 0.42 to 30.46 and Westpac slipped 0.29 to 27.04.
Macquarie Bank fell 2.40 to 87.85.


Telstra eased 0.04 to 4.60, Qantas lost 0.03 to 5.32 and Virgin
Blue added 0.02 to 2.70.

