

A consortium led by the Royal Bank of Scotland said Friday that
it wanted to make a formal offer for ABN Amro -- which could
spark a hostile takeover in the mammoth European battle for
control of the Dutch lender.


The RBS grouping, which also includes Banco Santander of Spain
and Dutch-Belgian group Fortis, said in an informal proposal on
Wednesday that it would pay 72 billion euros (98.4 billion
dollars) for ABN Amro.


That eclipsed a recommended bid from Barclays, made on Monday,
which valued the Dutch lender at 67 billion euros.


Either takeover would represent the biggest banking sector
acquisition in history.


The RBS consortium had requested late Thursday that ABN remove a
requirement which compels it to seek ABN's prior authorisation
before making a rival bid.


A fresh statement on Friday has sparked speculation from some
quarters that the consortium takeover could turn hostile with an
unsolicited offer.


"Fortis, RBS and Santander announce that they have notified the
supervisory and managing boards of ABN Amro yesterday (Thursday)
evening of their intention to make a public offer for 100 percent
of the issued and outstanding share capital of ABN Amro," the
consortium said in a fresh statement on Friday.


The statement added: "The banks continue to believe that their
proposals offer materially higher value for ABN Amro's
shareholders and benefits to customers and employees compared
with the recommended offer from Barclays."


ABN management threw their weight on Thursday behind an agreed
bid from Britain's Barclays despite shareholder unease over the
lower value of the offer.

