

China CITIC Bank, the nation's seventh largest bank, nearly
doubled in price on its trading debut in Shanghai Friday after
the year's largest initial public offering so far, dealers said.


CITIC Bank's A-shares closed at 11.37 yuan (1.47 dollars), up 96
percent and well above expectations for a trading range of 6.50
to 8.0 yuan, they said.


The lender, which also listed in Hong Kong Friday, sold 2.302
billion A-shares in Shanghai at 5.8 yuan and 4.885 billion
H-shares in Hong Kong at 5.86 Hong Kong dollars (75 US cents).


CITIC Bank raised net proceeds of some 5.4 billion dollars as a
result.


"CITIC Bank's opening price was too high," said Qiu Zhicheng, a
banking analyst at Haitong Securities.


"I expect CITIC Bank to fall back to a reasonable valuation of
around seven yuan after the overly optimistic sentiment
subsides," Qiu added.


Despite the heady rise, it is common in China for the shares of
newly listed companies to see a huge run-up on the opening day of
trade and then fall back as smaller investors look to pocket
quick profits.


CITIC Bank's listing comes as China is encouraging its large
firms to list at home to help soak up abundant liquidity and
steady a market which has soared since the beginning of 2006.


The Beijing-based bank is the sixth Chinese lender to list in
Hong Kong since Bank of Communications's pioneering sale in 2005,
as regulators have pushed banks to become joint-stock companies
to shore up their books and clear debt- weakened balance sheets.


Bank of China, one of China's top state held banks in terms of
assets, was the first to engineer a dual listing in Hong Kong and
Shanghai in June and July of last year.


The broader market closed weaker, however, with the benchmark
Shanghai Composite Index down 23.20 points or 0.61 percent at
3,759.87.


The Shanghai A-share Index lost 24.84 points or 0.62 percent at
3,950.84 and the Shenzhen A-share Index fell 9.63 points or 0.87
percent at 1,098.40.

