

Two small opposition parties called on their members to stay away
from the first round of Turkey's presidential election Friday, a
move that strengthens the main opposition's plan to derail the
vote and possibly force early general elections.


The centre-right Motherland (ANAP) and True Path (DTP) parties
called for early elections this week, arguing that a new
parliament should elect the president to defuse tensions around
the process.


ANAP chairman Erkan Mumcu and DYP leader Mehmet Agar said their
decisions did not mean they would support plans to challenge the
vote before the Constitutional Court.


"Such a development would be a blow to democracy," Mumcu said.


The main opposition Republican People's Party (CHP) plans to
petition the court to scrap the first-round vote if fewer than
367 deputies, or a two-thirds majority, turn up.


The ruling Justice and Development Party (AKP) has 352 seats,
enough to elect its candidate, Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul, but
only in the third or fourth round, in which an absolute majority
of 276 suffices.


ANAP and DYP have 20 and four seats, respectively, and the
attendance of their deputies in the session would have eliminated
the CHP threat.


The CHP says the presidency, which it calls "the last bastion of
secularism" cannot be left to the Islamist-rooted AKP, which many
Turks suspect of harbouring ambitions to increase the role of
Islam in politics and erode the fiercely guarded secular system.


The opposition wants general elections scheduled for November to
be held before the presidential vote, unhappy at the prospect of
Turkey's presidency going to a party that controls nearly two-
thirds of the assembly with only 34 percent of the popular vote
-- a quirk of Turkey's electoral system.

