

Russia's upper house of parliament on Friday approved a
resolution calling for a break in diplomatic relations with
Estonia in retaliation for the removal of a Soviet war monument
from central Tallinn.


The non-binding resolution was approved unanimously by the senate
and comes amid furious reactions from Russian authorities after
the removal of the monument, which sparked violent clashes in
Estonia.


The senate "calls on the leadership of the Russian Federation to
adopt the toughest possible measures, including a break in
diplomatic relations," read the resolution.


Russia's reaction should "show that modern Russia categorically
does not accept the barbaric attitude of Estonian authorities to
the memory of those who were victorious against fascism," the
resolution continued.


In the Estonian capital overnight one person died and at least 43
were injured in a looting rampage and clashes with police near
the square where the statue of a Soviet Red Army soldier once
stood.


A spokesman for the Russian foreign ministry, Mikhail Kamynin,
called the Estonian government's actions "blasphemous" and
"inhuman," adding that Russia would re-examine its relations with
the ex-Soviet Baltic state.


The head of the international affairs committee in the lower
house of the Russian parliament, Konstantin Kosachyov, also
recommended tough measures against Estonia on Friday.


"We will of course demand from the executive the toughest
possible reaction to what is happening in Estonia," Kosachyov was
quoted by Interfax news agency as saying.


"It's barbaric, it's blasphemous," Kosachyov said.

