

Four Islamic militant bomb-makers were killed early Friday when a
cache of explosives blew up at a house in a Pakistani tribal area
bordering Afghanistan, officials said.


The incident happened at Saidgi village in the North Waziristan
tribal district, around four kilometres (2.5 miles) from the
frontier, security officials told AFP on condition of anonymity.


"Two blasts were heard around 3:30 am. These militants were
making bombs and they exploded, killing three people on the spot
and wounding two others, one of whom died later," one of the
officials said.


The victims were believed to be Pakistani militants. "We don't
have any information that there was any foreigner in the house,"
the official added.


The officials had earlier said that four people were killed when
rockets fired by militants hit the building, a guest annexe owned
by a tribesman named Habib Khan.


In late 2005 a top Egyptian Al-Qaeda explosives expert, Hamza
Rabia, was killed in a blast in North Waziristan.


Pakistan insisted that he and four others died while they were
working on improvised bombs but US press reports said they were
killed by a missile fired by a US Predator drone.


North Waziristan is one of Pakistan's seven federally
administered tribal areas that became a haven for militants who
fled the US-led invasion of Afghanistan that toppled the Taliban
in late 2001.


Pakistani forces launched several bloody operations but signed
peace deals with insurgents in North Waziristan in 2006 and South
Waziristan in 2005, prompting concerns from NATO, US and Afghan
officials.

