

Key dates in the life of Mstislav Rostropovich, who died Friday
aged 80.


- March 27, 1927: Born in Baku, then part of the Soviet Union and
today capital of independent Azerbaijan. His parents, Russian
Jews, are both musicians.


- 1943: Enters the Moscow Conservatoire, where he studies under
the composers Sergei Prokofiev and Dmitry Shostakovich. Like his
father, Rostropovich studies the cello, and also conducts.


- 1951: Is awarded the Stalin Prize, the Soviet Union's highest
honour.


- 1955: Marries Galina Vishnevskaya, the leading soprano at
Moscow's Bolshoi Opera, with whom he has two children.


- 1956: Launches on an international career at New York's
Carnegie Hall. He goes on to play and conduct all over the world.


- 1970: Meets with and expresses open support for the dissident
writer Alexander Solzhenitsyn, a former work camp inmate who has
infuriated the Soviet authorities by winning the Nobel Prize for
literature.


- 1974: Rostropovich is exiled from the Soviet Union and settles
with his family in the United States. Four years later he is
stripped of his citizenship.


- 1977-1994: Heads and conducts the US National Symphony
Orchestra in Washington, DC.


- 1988: With the advent of reform under Soviet leader Mikhail
Gorbachev, the couple returns to the Soviet Union.


- 1989: The breaching of the Berlin Wall marks the beginning of
the end for the Soviet system. Rostropovich gives an improvised
cello performance in front of the Wall, an image that is shown
around the world.


- 1990: Recovers his citizenship.


- 2005: The couple mark their golden (50th) wedding anniversary.


- 2006: Rostropovich takes part in celebrations marking the
centenary of Shostakovich's birth.


- 2007: In poor health, Rostropovich celebrates 80th birthday at
the Kremlin.

