

Up to 18 servicemen died Friday when a Russian military
helicopter was shot down in renewed violence in Chechnya, Russian
news agencies quoted military officials as saying.


The Mi-8 helicopter was shot down over the Caucasus mountains
near the southern town of Shatoi during a battle with Chechen
rebels, Interfax and RIA Novosti news agencies said in their
reports, quoting unnamed officials at the military's regional
headquarters in the North Caucasus.


"There was a special operation early in the morning in which
federal forces clashed with a group of bandits. Reinforcements
were called for and three defence ministry helicopters arrived at
the scene. One helicopter, according to preliminary data, was
shot down while landing," RIA Novosti quoted the headquarters
source as saying.


Interfax news agency quoted an unnamed military official as
saying the dead comprised three air crew and 15 special forces
members, while RIA Novosti news agency put the number of dead at
17.


If confirmed, the shooting down of a troop helicopter would mark
one of the most serious insurgent incidents in Chechnya in recent
months.


An intelligence official in Grozny told Interfax the rebel group
may have been led by the top Chechen insurgent Doku Umarov.


Russian forces have fought two wars in the last 12 years to crush
a separatist rebellion in Chechnya, a tiny mountainous territory
home to the Muslim Chechens.


The defence ministry has repeatedly voiced concern about how
rebel movements in Chechnya have been able to obtain
sophisticated surface-to-air-missiles.


An estimated 100,000 of the one million Chechens have been killed
and, according to official figures, some 10,000 Russian
servicemen.

