

The Conventional Forces in Europe (CFE) treaty, which Russian
President Vladimir Putin has threatened to freeze, is one of the
key post-Cold War security accords in Europe.


The accord was signed on November 19, 1990 in Paris by the North
Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) and the Warsaw Pact and
modified in 1999 after the fall of the Soviet Union and the East
bloc.


The intial aim was to eliminate the capacity of either side to
launch a surprise attack or large scale military offensive.


It states that no force can be in a third country that is a
member of the treaty without its permission.


NATO says it considers CFE to be the cornerstone of "security and
stability in Europe" for reducing tensions through arms buildups
and increasing confidence building.


But the new version has not entered into effect because of a
dispute between NATO and Russia.


NATO countries refuse to ratify the treaty because of Russian
troops still in Georgia and Moldova. Russia ratified the treaty
in 2004 but has several times threatened to withdraw because of
the US military presence that it feels is getting ever closer to
the Russian border.


Russia has been infuriated by the planned US missile defence
shield in eastern Europe and by the US troops based in Romania
and Bulgaria.


The 1990 treaty limits the use of five categories of heavy
weaponry in a zone running from the Atlantic to the Ural
mountains. Since then 60,000 tanks, military transport vehicles,
planes, helicopters have been destroyed or dismantled and the
number of troops has been reduced from 5.7 million to less than
three million.


There is a strict inspection and transparency regime in the
treaty.

