

Turkey's Islamist-rooted Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan made
a final appeal to opposition legislators not to boycott the first
round of the presidential election Friday and to avert a
"political paralysis."


"Let us not fall into the trap of those who are trying to drag
Turkey back to the customs of the past, to those periods of
political paralysis," Erdogan told a press conference in
parliament.


"Despite our differences, the result of our democratic rivalry,
we are people of the same nation, we are the representatives of
the same nation.


"Attending the general assembly and voting -- be it for or
against -- is a duty given to us by the people," he said.


The main opposition centre-left Republican People's Party (CHP)
said it will boycott the vote and seek its annulment by the
Constitutional Court on a technicality in the hope of forcing
early general elections.


Erdogan's Justice and Development Party (AKP), the offshoot of a
now-banned Islamist movement, holds a comfortable majority in
parliament and is virtually certain to elect its candidate,
Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul, in a vote that can go up to four
rounds.


The CHP says the presidential palace, which it calls "the last
bastion of secularism," cannot be left to the AKP, which many
Turks suspect of harbouring ambitions to increase the role of
Islam in politics and erode the fiercely guarded secular system.


Two smaller opposition parties are expected to announce their
decision on whether to attend the vote shortly before it begins
at 1200 GMT.

