

West Indies umpire Steve Bucknor will officiate in an
unprecedented fifth World Cup final on Saturday after being named
by the ICC to oversee the 2007 title clash between Australia and
Sri Lanka.


Bucknor will stand in the Kensington Oval encounter alongside
Aleem Dar from Pakistan.


The third umpire will be Rudi Koertzen of South Africa, reserve
umpire is New Zealander Billy Bowden while former New Zealand
captain Jeff Crowe will be match referee.


Bucknor, 60, also stood in the 1992, 1996, 1999 and 2003 finals.


The only officials who come close to that mark are Englishmen
Dickie Bird (1975, 1979 and 1983) and David Shepherd (1996, 1999
and 2003), who both stood in three finals.


Shepherd officiated with Bucknor in the 1996, 1999 and 2003
deciders but his retirement in 2005 meant there was always going
to be at least one official standing in Saturday's match who was
new to the final and 38 year-old Aleem Dar has been given that
honour.


Television official Koertzen, 58, passed Shepherd's record for
on-field ODI umpiring appearances earlier in the tournament.


Koertzen has now stood in 174 matches compared to Shepherd's
previous mark of 172 and on Saturday will fill the role he also
undertook in the 2003 final when Australia defeated India in
Johannesburg.


Bowden, 44, completes an umpiring team full of experience with
the four men between them having stood in the middle in 537 ODIs.


"I was happy knowing I was umpiring in a World Cup in the
Caribbean and now being asked to stand in the final again makes
it even more special," said Bucknor.


"Just because the final is taking place here (in the Caribbean)
does not mean it is any extra pressure for me than, say, my third
or fourth finals, for example. Each game has its pressures and
you have to deal with that."


Dar added: "Everyone can have their dreams and I am just very
glad that I have been selected for this match which should be a
very good one between the two top teams.


"I have always worked well together with Steve, he is a great
umpire and we have a good understanding."

