

NATO allies called Friday for a rapid political resolution to
Kosovo's future status amid concern that further delays could
spark security problems, with Russia threatening to veto the
process.


NATO has some 16,000 troops stationed in the breakaway Serbian
province, whose ethnic Albanian majority is impatient for the
"supervised independence" that United Nations envoy Martti
Ahtisaari believes they should be granted.


"The allies have a fundamental interest in ensuring that the
Kosovo status process, based on the Ahtisaari proposals, goes
forward because we do need a resolution to this outstanding
issue," said NATO's chief spokesman.


"They will continue to engage Russia on this," James Appathurai
told reporters on the sidelines of informal talks between North
Atlantic Treaty Organisation foreign ministers in Oslo, Norway.


Kosovo has been run by the United Nations since a NATO bombing
campaign in 1999 to stop attacks on ethnic Albanians in the
province by forces under then Serbian president Slobodan
Milosevic.


The ethnic Albanians, for whom NATO is highly symbolic and
respected, are impatient for independence and have been
frustrated by Russia's threats to use its UN Security Council
veto to stop Kosovo winning independence.


"NATO is concerned that unnecessary delays raise the risk of
increased tensions and we certainly can't ignore that," said
Appathurai, but added that the KFOR peacekeeping force "is fully
prepared for any eventuality".


He noted that the NATO allies agree that the Ahtisaari plan,
which would grant Kosovo "independence, supervised by the
international community", is "the only game in town".


Russia, a strong ally of Serbia, has warned that it would veto
any status which is imposed on Belgrade and it believes such a
move would send the wrong signal to other separatist-minded
regions around the world.

