

Hong Kong share prices closed 0.68 percent lower Friday as
investors locked in profits amid expectations China could take
economic-tightening measures during Labor Day holidays next week,
dealers said.


They said there was also some selling activity linked to the
expiry of April futures contracts.


China CITIC Bank posted strong gains on its debut but it lagged
its A-share gains on the mainland.


The Hang Seng Index closed down 140.79 points at 20,526.50, off a
low of 20,425.57 and a high of 20,619.11. For the week, the index
is down 40.09 points or 0.19 percent.


Turnover was heavy at 64.17 billion Hong Kong dollars (8.2
billion US).


China CITIC Bank closed at 6.68 dollars, up 14 percent from the
IPO price of 5.86. It opened at 7.08, which was also its high for
the day.


The H-share gains paled in comparison with the bank's A-shares in
Shanghai, which closed at 11.37 yuan (1.47 US dollars), up 96
percent from the mainland offer price of 5.80 yuan.


"The market's weak showing was not surprising as investors wanted
to lock in profit on worries that China may announce austerity
measures during the golden week holiday next week," said Kitty
Chan, director of Celestial Asia Securities.


"I expect trade to remain weak and investors to be sidelined next
week due to the absence of leads from China stock markets," she
said, adding that the benchmark index will likely move within the
20,400-20,800 points range.


The mainland markets will be closed May 1-7 in an extended break
following Labor Day.


Analysts expect China's central bank to implement another 27
basis point hike in benchmark policy rates sometime soon.


The bank last hiked rates on March 17, when benchmark one-year
deposit and lending rates were raised 27 basis points to 2.79
percent and 6.39 percent, respectively.


Celestial Asia's Chan said, however, that the market has more or
less factored in such a development.


"I don't expect very serious correction" even if China announces
some measures, she said.


Dealers noted that index heavyweights were hit by futures-related
activity as the April contracts expired Friday.


China Mobile was down 0.75 at 72.2, HSBC fell 0.60 to 144.5,
Hutchison Whampoa was down 0.15 at 76.5 and China Construction
Bank gave up 0.08 at 4.84.


Other mainland financial counters were also hit by profit-taking
pressure, with the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index losing
119.58 points or 1.17 percent at 10,141.41.


China Life was down 0.45 at 24.9, ICBC was down 0.02 at 4.34 and
Bank of China fell 0.04 to 3.91.


New listing China CITIC Bank closed at 6.68 dollars, up 14
percent from the IPO price of 5.86 dollars. It opened at 7.08
dollars, its high for the day.


The H-share gains paled in comparison with the bank's A-shares in
Shanghai, which closed at 11.37 yuan (1.5 US dollars), up 96
percent from the mainland offer price of 5.80 yuan.


Dealers cited lower post-listing demand for the shares here
compared to Shanghai and some valuation concerns for the modest
gains in H shares compared to the A shares.

