

India has urged Iran to honour a 22-billion dollar natural gas
sales deal concluded two years ago, warning Tehran it could lose
credibility if it went back on the agreement, a report said
Friday.


The message was conveyed to Iran's leadership during an
unscheduled visit to Tehran on Thursday by Indian Oil Minister
Murli Deora, the Press Trust of India news agency reported.


Deora told Iranian officials that Tehran could get business from
other countries but stood to lose its credibility as a reliable
source of energy if it faltered on the implementation of the June
2005 deal, it reported.


An Indian official accompanying Deora was quoted as saying that
the delegation "had a very good 50-minute meeting with the
Iranian president, at the end of which Mahmoud (Ahmadinejad)
instructed his oil minister to look at ways of early
implementation of the deal."


India is supposed to get five million tonnes of liquefied natural
gas annually over a 25-year period from 2009 under the 22
-billion-dollar-agreement.


But the accord has since hit a snag over pricing, with reports
last week saying Iran had decided to ask for more money -- at
least 5.1 dollars per million British thermal unit (mBtu) instead
of the agreed 3.2 dollars.


Late last year, Deora said India was willing to consider a new
price provided that it was not too steep.


New Delhi has also said it could offer a higher price for an
additional 2.5 million tonnes of gas, separate from the five
million tonnes originally agreed to, PTI said.

