

Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf said a possible US attack on
Iran would be a "terrible mistake", in an interview published
here Friday.


"It will be a terrible mistake if President George Bush orders an
attack against Iran," Musharraf told Sarajevo daily Dnevni Avaz
ahead of his visit to Bosnia.


"I'm concerned about the possibility that a US attack on Iran
(would cause) turbulence in the region," he said, warning it
would spark "radicalism."


The United States wants Iran to suspend a uranium enrichment
programme over fears the material could be used for nuclear
weapons, but Tehran insists it is only interested in producing
energy.


Washington also accuses Iran of aggravating violence in
neighbouring Iraq.


Musharraf is to arrive in the capital Sarajevo later on Friday
for the first official visit to Bosnia during which he is to meet
with the country's leaders.


During the two-day visit, the Pakistani leader is also scheduled
to pay respects to victims of the 1995 Srebrenica massacre.


Some 8,000 unarmed Muslim men and boys were killed in and around
the eastern town by Serb forces at the end of Bosnia's 1992-1995
war. The atrocity is the worst in Europe since World War II.


In the interview, Musharraf reiterated accusations against Afghan
President Hamid Karzai about Parkistan's lack of readiness to
fight terrorism.


Afgan authotrities "must stop spreading those bare-faced lies.
President Karzai must stop deluding the world," said Mussaraf.


He also denied accusations from Karzai that Al-Qaeda head Osama
bin Laden and Taliban leader Mulla Mohammad Omar were in
Pakistan.


The comments set the stage for a stormy meeting in Turkey next
week between Musharraf and Karzai, two key allies of the United
States.


Afghan and US officials have blamed Pakistan for failing to
prevent Taliban-led militants from attacking US, NATO and Afghan
forces in Afghanistan from bases in Pakistan's tribal areas along
their 2,400-kilometre (1,500-mile) common border.

