

The euro posted a fresh record high against the yen in Asian
trade Friday after weak Japanese inflation data raised doubts
about when the Bank of Japan will next raise interest rates,
dealers said.


The central bank left its key lending rate unchanged at 0.5
percent Friday, as expected for a third straight meeting against
a backdrop of lingering deflationary pressures.


The euro posted a fresh record high of 162.84 yen, up from 162.57
in New York overnight, before easing back to 162.38 in Tokyo
afternoon trade.


The dollar slipped to 119.41 yen from 119.54 in New York late
Thursday.


The euro was flat at 1.3601 dollars after 1.3598, still just
below an all-time high.


Japan said Friday its core consumer price index (CPI) fell 0.3
percent in March from a year earlier, the second straight month
it has gone down.


In addition to the soft CPI data, weak industrial output added to
the selling pressure on the yen, said Saburo Matsumoto, chief
forex strategist at Sumitomo Trust Bank.


Japan's industrial output fell 0.6 percent in March, upsetting
market expectations of a gain of 0.9 percent after February's 0.7
percent increase.


Investors were also focused on the release later in the day of US
gross domestic product (GDP) figures for the first quarter,
dealers said.


They said the growth figures will be pivotal to determine whether
the US Federal Reserve will cut interest rates to stimulate a
flagging economy or hold them steady in the face of strong growth
and inflation pressures.


"Although recent US data has been mixed, there is a possibility
that the GDP could be higher than expected," Matsumoto said.


Recent weak US and Japanese economic data have kept the euro
hovering near record highs against the dollar, supported by
robust growth in the eurozone, dealers said.


The dollar slipped to 33.262 Taiwan dollars from 33.305 in late
Asian trade on Thursday, to 928.85 South Korean won from 929.30
and to 9,079.50 Indonesian rupiah from 9,080.


The US unit rose to 47.53 Philippine pesos from 47.46, to 1.5162
Singapore dollars from 1.5129 and to 32.725 Thai baht from 32.45.

