

Otago Highlanders flyhalf Nick Evans missed a late conversion on
Friday as the Wellington Hurricanes clung on for a narrow 22-21
Super 14 victory here.


There was little at stake for both sides, who have no chance of
making the semi- finals with one round remaining. But they ground
out a close battle, neither wanting to finish the season as the
bottom-ranked New Zealand team.


Evans scored a try, created another and nailed a conversion and
three penalties for a personal haul of 16 points, but missed his
chance to cap the performance with the winning kick.


Hurricanes flyhalf Jimmy Gopperth also impressed after missing a
starting spot for several weeks after a couple of below-par
performances early in the competition.


He kicked cleverly, distributed the ball well and made some
telling runs, underlining his return to form with a brilliant, if
slightly lucky solo try after 31 minutes.


Gopperth chipped over the first line of defence and fly-kicked
the ball twice towards the line, narrowly beating the scrambling
defence to collect a fortunate bounce in the in-goal area.


His opposite number Evans had scored the first try of the match,
threading through the Hurricanes defence and cleverly forcing the
ball down against the goal post as he was tackled.


Piri Weepu conceded the Hurricanes' flyhalf position to Gopperth
and resumed his more familiar role at scrumhalf.


But he kept the goal-kicking role, continuing his remarkable
consistency of recent weeks with four penalties to give the home
team a 17-13 halftime lead.


Just three minutes into the second spell, winger Hosea Gear
fended off Highlanders veteran hooker Anton Oliver to touch down
for the Hurricanes' only points of the half.


Evans added his third penalty midway through the spell and made
the break to put replacement back Toby Morland in for the
potentially match-winning try with just three minutes left on the
clock.

