

North Korea's access to international banking must be restored to
end a cash row which is obstructing a nuclear disarmament accord,
a pro-Pyongyang newspaper said Friday.


The dispute over North Korean accounts, which had been frozen in
Macau's Banco Delta Asia (BDA) at US instigation, has blocked any
progress on the February 13 six-nation deal.


The North, which tested an atomic weapon last October, says it
will take the first step to shut down its Yongbyon reactor as
soon as it receives the 25 million dollars in the accounts.


But the Chosun Sinbo newspaper said the North's goal was not just
to retrieve the money.


"For North Korea, which has insisted on the lifting of financial
sanctions, it does not matter whether it can withdraw the money
or not," said the paper, which is published by pro-Pyongyang
residents in Japan and reflects the opinions of the North's
government.


"Unless normalisation of financial transactions by international
standards is realised, it cannot be said that its demand has been
met," said the paper on its website.


The report confirms the North's position that it will not move
unless the funds are transferred to another bank, so it can
confirm it can freely transfer funds internationally once again.


After the US Treasury blacklisted BDA in September 2005 on
suspicion of money- laundering and handling the North's
counterfeit notes, a series of other banks in Asia were persuaded
to stop handling Pyongyang's business -- making even legitimate
transactions difficult.


The February agreement set April 14 as the deadline for the North
to shut down its Yongbyon nuclear reactor as the first step in
scrapping its nuclear programmes. This slipped by because of the
unresolved bank dispute.


Washington says the funds have been freed for collection and it
has done all that it should.

