

South Korean police said Friday they were investigating
allegations that a local tycoon ordered his bodyguards to beat
bar employees in revenge for an attack on his son.


Police said Hanwha group chairman Kim Seung-Youn would be
questioned to determine whether he was directly involved in the
incident, which happened after his second son was beaten by one
of the bar employees on March 8.


"We will soon summon Kim and his second son," an investigator
told AFP. He refused to confirm news reports that the two were
banned from leaving the country pending a criminal investigation.


On Friday Kim apologised for the incident, saying he would
"actively cooperate with investigators."


"I sincerely apologise for stirring pubic concern," he said in a
statement.


Hanwha, South Korea's 10th largest conglomerate, insisted Kim was
not directly involved in what newspapers called a retaliatory
beating.


"He just visited the scene later to seek a compromise between the
two sides," group spokesman Park Jong-Koo told AFP.


"The second son, who is studying at a US college, was first
beaten by bar employees and suffered an injury that required 10
stitches in the face."


The incident sparked a media outcry because of perceptions that
leaders of the country's mighty conglomerates, or chaebol, are
sometimes above the law.


JoongAng Daily in an editorial Thursday said the incident was "an
example of the distorted ideas and behaviour sometimes exhibited
by wealthy and powerful Koreans."


Kim had been touted as an exemplary businessman who spearheaded
corporate restructuring after South Korea was hit by the Asian
financial crisis in late 1997.

