

Japanese electronics giant Matsushita said Friday its net profit
grew by nearly half in the year to March as it cut costs and
focused on new products.


The company, best known for the Panasonic brand, said it
benefitted from strong sales of flat-screen televisions, digital
cameras and home appliances, offsetting lower profits from mobile
telephones.


Matsushita Electric Industrial Co. Ltd. said net profit grew 41
percent to 217.2 billion yen (1.84 billion dollars) in the year
to March.


Revenue was up two percent to top the nine trillion mark at 9.1
trillion yen, with operating profit rising 11 percent to 459.5
billion yen.


Matsushita said it "aggressively launched and promoted a new
series of V-products" -- or strategically innovative products --
"to capture leading market shares and make a significant
contribution to overall business results."


The improvment in operating profit "was due primarily to the cost
reduction efforts, including materials costs and fixed costs, and
a weaker yen," the Osaka-based company said in a statement.


However, Matsushita said it still suffered from a lagging
performance at its unit JVC, or the Victor Company of Japan Ltd.,
whose sales were down nine percent due to sluggish demand for its
audiovisual equipment.


Matsushita said it expected its performance to continue to
improve in the year to March 2008, seeing net profit up 15
percent to 250 billion yen on revenue of 9.25 trillion yen, with
operating profit to rise rise nine percent at 500 billion yen.

