

Ethiopian rebels holding seven Chinese oil workers captured
during an attack on an oil venture which killed 77 people,
including nine Chinese, said Friday that China was not the target
of the raid.


"Chinese citizens were not the target of our attack and their
deaths resulted from munitions exploding during the battle (with
troops guarding the site)," the Ogaden National Liberation Front
(ONLF) said in an open letter to the Chinese government, sent to
AFP by email.


The ONLF claimed responsibility for Tuesday's dawn attack on the
Chinese-run oil venture in Ogaden, where the separatist group is
fighting for the independence of ethnic Somalis.


"The ONLF would like to assure the people of China that your
citizens are safe, healthy and well treated," the letter said.


The group said Thursday that it would release the Chinese
captives "as soon as possible" and that it was planning to hand
them over to the International Committee for the Red Cross
(ICRC). An ICRC spokeswoman said Thursday that the Ethiopian
rebels had not yet made contact.


Ethiopia says that a rescue operation is under way in the
country's remote eastern region, but the rebels have warned that
heavy-handed attempts to free the oil workers could endanger
their lives.


Tuesday's raid was the first on an Ethiopian oil exploration site
since the ONLF issued a threat to foreign companies operating in
the region a year ago.


"We urge the government of China to recognize the plight of our
people and cease all cooperation with the Ethiopian government in
the area of oil exploration until such time that there is a
legitimate form of self-government in Ogaden," the group said in
Friday's letter.


Sinopec, the parent company of Zhongyuan Petroleum Exploration
Bureau, operator of the Ogaden oil venture, said Thursday it had
no plans to pull out of resource-rich African region despite the
attack.

