

Former global currency markets player and current day
philanthropist, George Soros, warned Friday that the growing
trade imbalance between the US and China represents the biggest
threat of an international economic collapse.


"There is a clear disequilibrium that the US is consuming 7.0
percent more than it produces and countries like China are
producing significantly more than they consume," he said, adding
that Peking had built up a 1.2 trillion dollar surplus which is
growing fast.


"There could be a balanced correction of the disparity but, on
the other hand, it could also be difficult and hard," Soros
explained.


He added that the decline in the dollar's value could accelerate
if central banks and foreign investors were spooked into
switching their cash reserves into other currencies.


"What is now a very gentle decline in the dollar could accelerate
and that could be disruptive," Soros, who was speaking at a
debate in Prague connected with his book "The Age of
Fallibility," added.


The single European currency is developing into a counterweight
to the dollar with rich Gulf oil states choosing to keep some of
their surplus cash in euros. But that trend also risks creating
"serious disruption" if it develops outside current acceptable
bounds, Soros said.


The American billionaire financier and speculator, famous for
"breaking" the Bank of England in 1992, now devotes most of his
time and money to foundations, such as the Open Society
Institute, aimed at encouraging democracy.

