

The world's second-biggest miner, Rio Tinto, is struggling to
meet the demand for resources from large developing economies
such as China, chief executive Leigh Clifford said Friday.


"These are buoyant times for the mining industry," Clifford told
shareholders at the company's annual general meeting in Perth.


"We are struggling to meet demand that is fuelled by large
developing economies going through a metals intensive phase of
their development.


"Economic growth around the world in Asia and particularly in
China has resulted in strong demand for metals and minerals."


Clifford confirmed plans by the group to raise iron ore
production at its Western Australia mines to more than 220
million tonnes a year.


"Due to continued strength in the world's steel markets,
particularly in China, we are now planning for a significant lift
beyond 220 million tonnes.


"We have the resources to enable this and have teams evaluating
the infrastructure requirements to achieve it," he said.


The group is already heading for a production capacity in Western
Australia of 220 million tonnes a year of iron ore by early 2009,
nearly double capacity in 2003 and four times production seven
years ago.


Clifford said Rio Tinto's strong balance sheet has allowed the
company to invest heavily in growth and at the same time return
capital to shareholders.


Chairman Paul Skinner told the meeting that the company, which is
rated second only to BHP Billiton among mining giants, was
keeping an eye out for mergers, acquisitions and alliances.


"Our existing portfolio ... has the potential to generate
continuing growth in the future," he said.


"Meanwhile, we remain alert to further opportunities for mergers,
acquisitions and alliances."


The company expected positive economic growth to continue in 2007
in most of the major economies, he said.


"China's strong, growing demand for metals and minerals is
expected to continue ... Europe and the US are performing
reasonably well."

