

Hong Kong share prices will remain low next week with investors
kept on the sidelines on fears that China could take economic-
tightening measures during Labor Day holidays, dealers said.


They said investors would also look to the United States for
leads as the Chinese market will close for the week-long holiday
next week.


"It'll be quiet at the beginning as they will wait and see if
there are any new credit-tightening policies," said Castor Pang,
strategist at Sun Hung Kai Financial Group.


Any new monetary measures would cause volatility in the market,
but it could rebound if no announcement is made, he said.


Analysts expect China's central bank to implement another 27
basis point interest rate hike in benchmark policy rates sometime
soon.


The bank last hiked rates on March 17, when benchmark one-year
deposit and lending rates were raised 27 basis points to 2.79
percent and 6.39 percent, respectively.


However, Pang said the possible measures have already been
largely factored in and any losses would be limited.


"I expect the market to fall no more than 500 points as its
performance has already factored in such move from the Chinese
government," he said. "That's why the market has been falling
this week."


In the week ending April 27, the benchmark Hang Seng Index fell
40.09 points or 0.19 percent at 20,526.50.


As the Chinese markets are closed next week, investors will
switch to the Wall Street for leads. They will watch US economic
data, such as personal income for March and job data, for
direction.


"If the data comes out good, this would put gains on the market,"
Pang said.


Pang estimates the main index to trade at a resistant level of
20,800 points next week but he does not expect it to fall below
the psychological 20,000-point mark even if Chinese monetary
policies are announced.

