

A leading Asian business magazine has applied to the Singapore
High Court for permission to use a British Queen's Counsel in a
high-profile defamation case, its lawyer said Friday.


The monthly Far Eastern Economic Review (FEER) filed an affidavit
arguing that it needed libel specialist Gavin Millar because of
the complex nature of its defence in a suit filed by the city-
state's top leaders.


Peter Low, the magazine's Singapore-based lawyer, said it could
not locally find a senior counsel to argue its case.


The Straits Times said Friday that Singapore has 45 Senior
Counsels, the local equivalent of the Queen's Counsel. However,
none of those approached have been willing to represent the
magazine.


Millar is a Queen's Counsel who specialises in defending libel
claims and has successfully argued several high-profile cases in
the UK.


FEER is seeking to dismiss a libel case filed against it by
Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong and his father, Lee Kuan
Yew.


The Lees sued the magazine's editor Hugo Restall and Hong Kong-
based Review Publishing, its owners, alleging defamation in an
article based on an interview with pro-democracy activist Chee
Soon Juan.


The article entitled "Singapore's 'Martyr,' Chee Soon Juan,"
described the Singapore Democratic Party secretary-general's
battle against the ruling People's Action Party and its leaders.


In the article, Restall also touched on Singapore officials'
success in libel suits against critics.


Singaporean leaders have won hundreds of thousands of dollars in
damages in defamation cases against critics and foreign
publications, which they say are necessary to protect their
reputations from unfounded attacks.


The city-state banned distribution of the magazine in September,
saying it had failed to comply with media regulations.


A hearing for FEER's application was set for May 10.

