

New Zealand share prices rose 0.16 percent Friday, with the
benchmark index holding its ground despite a fall in the
Australian market, dealers said.


The NZX-50 gross index closed up 6.54 points at 4,181.45 on
turnover worth 104.7 million dollars (77.4 million US). Falls
outnumbered rises 62 to 47 among 153 stocks traded.


"I think (local stocks) performed incredibly well, especially
since how the Australian market's trading," said Joe Gallagher,
an institutional adviser with Goldman Sachs JB Were.


Brokers noted low liquidity exaggerated price swings in some
local shares.


Discount retailer The Warehouse fell 18 cents to 6.92 dollars
after the Commerce Commission delayed for a third time its
decision on applications for takeover clearance from two major
supermarket groups.


"I think a lot of it is people sick and tired of having their
money in this stock -- it's dead money for another month,"
Gallagher said.


Air New Zealand rose six cents to 2.85 dollars, after briefly
touching a year- high of 2.87 dollars, and Auckland Airport rose
six cents to 2.48. Tourism Holdings Ltd, which Thursday said its
June year net profit would be at the higher end of its forecast
range, rose 10 cents to 2.27.


Market leader Telecom fell one cent to 4.79 dollars. A media
report said analysts expected Telecom to post almost flat third
quarter profits next Thursday.


NZX, which operates the New Zealand Stock Exchange, rose 24 cents
to 10.04 dollars after reporting a 50 percent rise in first
quarter operating profit.


Fisher & Paykel Appliances, which Thursday announced it was
shifting laundry whiteware production to Thailand, fell three
cents to 3.57 dollars.

