

Australian share prices are expected to fall next week as the
market undergoes a mini-correction following recent sharp gains,
dealers said Friday.


For the week to April 27 the benchmark SP/ASX 200 ended down 55.9
points or 0.9 percent at 6,151.6, its first weekly loss in seven
weeks.


During that time the index broke its record close four times,
with the current high mark standing at 6,236.9 set on April 18.


"AMP Capital Investors chief economist Shane Oliver said
investors were looking to lock in profits after an unsustainable
rise but any downturn did not necessarily signal an emergence of
bearish sentiment in the market.


"After huge gains since early March lows, shares are vulnerable
to a short-term set back," he said.


"After rising 10.5 percent from early March, the Australian share
market has entered a short-term correction or consolidation, with
the 6,200 level providing a bit of a trigger for profit taking.


"However, any correction is likely to be relatively mild and
brief and the trend in share prices is likely to remain up.


"Valuations are still reasonable, profit growth remains
reasonable, a gradual reduction in US inflation and interest
rates will support higher price-to- earnings multiples and the
world is awash in cash looking for a home."


Oliver said the market did not expect the Reserve Bank of
Australia to lift interest rates from 6.25 percent Wednesday when
it announces the result of its monthly monetary policy meeting.


Company reporting season continues, with the St George and
Westpac banks due to report.


All eyes will be on how many Qantas shareholders accept a
takeover offer from private equity consortium Airline Partners
Australia before the bid deadline of Friday, May 4.


So far, less than 30 percent of investors have accepted the
offer, which will lapse if that percentage does not rise to 50
percent by the end of the week.

