

Europe's main stock markets eased lower on Friday, as the mining
sector was hit by weak metal prices, and despite another record
finish overnight on Wall Street, dealers said.


Investors will switch their attention later Friday to the release
of first quarter economic growth data in the United States, which
was expected to show a slowdown in the world's largest economy.


London's FTSE 100 index of leading shares fell 0.46 percent to
6,439.90 points in late morning deals.


Frankfurt's DAX 30 shed 0.10 percent to 7,379.53 points in early
afternoon trade and the Paris CAC 40 decreased by a marginal 0.01
percent to 5,943.98.


The euro was strong at 1.3614 dollars, which was within striking
distance of a record peak.


US blue-chip shares continued their record-breaking run on
Thursday, as bullish investors propelled the leading Dow Jones
Industrial Average share index to another all-time high.


The blue chip share gauge maintained momentum above the
psychologically important 13,000-point mark on the back of a
flurry of fat profit reports, including ExxonMobil's latest
earnings.


Japanese share prices closed slightly lower Friday after soft
domestic economic data offset the impact of another record US
finish, dealers said.


In Europe on Friday, mining companies saw their share prices
struggle as investors winced at weak metal prices and took
profits following recent gains.


"The mining sector is a significant drag on the market," said
HSBC equity strategist Robert Parkes.


In London, shares in Vedanta Resources slumped 2.27 percent to
1,376 pence, BHP Billiton fell 1.92 percent to 1,123 pence and
Kazakhyms slid 1.81 percent to 1,141 pence.


In Paris, global steel giant Arcelor Mittal dropped 0.10 percent
to 39.25 euros. In Frankfurt, German steel peer ThyssenKrupp
sagged 0.08 percent to 39.04 euros.


Across the Atlantic on Thursday, the US Dow Jones index closed up
0.12 percent at a record 13,105.50 points, a day after smashing
the 13,000 milestone for the first time.


The Nasdaq composite finished up 0.26 percent at 2,554.46, but
the broad-market Standard and Poor's 500 index ended down 0.08
percent at 1,494.25.


Share gauges have surged to record peaks in recent days following
a flurry of better-than-expected profit reports from corporate
America, as investors have largely appeared to brush off worries
about slowing US economic growth.


Some veteran analysts cautioned excited investors, however, that
the rocketing stock market could be headed for a correction.


In Asia on Friday, Tokyo's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
lost 0.17 percent to close at 17,400.41 points.


Dealers said that Tokyo investors squared their positions before
Japan enters the Golden Week holidays beginning this weekend.


Hong Kong's key Hang Seng Index closed down 0.68 percent at
20,526.50 points.

