

Indian inflation remained steady at 6.09 percent, according to
data on Friday, still way above the central bank's target of five
percent and keeping up pressure for more monetary tightening.


The wholesale price index, India's most closely watched cost-of-
living monitor, showed inflation at 6.09 percent for the week
ended April 14, unchanged from the previous week,


A year earlier, inflation was at 3.70 percent.


The Reserve Bank of India, the central bank, has warned of signs
of overheating in the fast-growing economy and has introduced a
slew of monetary tightening measures in recent months to curb
inflation.


The bank left key short-term borrowing rates unchanged at a
policy meeting earlier this week as it sought to keep economic
growth on track but it raised the ante on its already hawkish
stance.


It had previously aimed for an annual inflation rate of 5.0 to
5.5 percent but said during its quarterly review it wanted the
rate to fall to a "self-imposed mandate" of 5.0 percent during
this financial year to March 2008.


The bank is aiming for inflation of 4.0 to 4.5 percent in the
medium-term.


The RBI has raised short-term lending rates twice this year, by a
quarter of a percent each time to 7.75 percent -- the highest
level in more than four years -- to contain inflation.


Economists have said they expect inflation to ease in coming
weeks against a backdrop of slowing global and domestic economic
growth.


India's economy is estimated to have grown by 9.2 percent in
2006-07.


The RBI said it would slow to 8.5 percent this year because of
the steps taken since late 2004 to cool the economy.

