

Israeli police searched two homes and an office of prominent Arab
Israeli Azmi Bishara, who is being investigated for helping
Hezbollah during last year's war, his political party said
Friday.


Police confiscated several computers and documents during
searches late Thursday at a rented apartment in east Jerusalem,
Bishara's house in Israel's city of Haifa and an office in
Nazareth, said an official from Balad.


Israeli police spokesman Micky Rosenfeld was unable to comment
with a news blackout on the investigation only partially lifted.


Bishara is in Qatar having resigned from the Israeli parliament
after 11 years while in Cairo on Sunday and giving up his
parliamentary immunity.


In a statement handed out by his party on Thursday, the former MP
said he intended to remain in public life despite his voluntary
resignation.


Bishara pledged to return to Israel, denied the allegations
against him and insisted that foreign exile is not an option.


Israeli police on Wednesday said he was suspected of passing
information on to Hezbollah during the Second Lebanon War and
receiving money in exchange.


The allegations amount to assisting an enemy during the war,
handing over information to the enemy, being in contact with a
foreign agent and violating money laundering laws.


If found guilty in an Israeli court, Bishara could face life in
prison.


Palestinian prime minister Ismail Haniya, a member of Islamist
movement Hamas, on Friday lent his support to the Christian from
northern Israel.


"We express solidarity with Azmi Bishara who has defended his
people and his cause, and faced with this Israeli offensive, we
urge local and international organisations to support him," said
his spokesman Ghazi Hamad in a statement.


A distinguished debater with a doctorate in philosophy, Bishara
has campaigned relentlessly for the rights of the 1.2 million-
strong Arab minority who account for 20 percent of the
population.

