

More than 100 people staged a rare protest in Beijing on Sunday
against the construction near their homes of a high-voltage power
line that will provide electricity for the 2008 Olympics.


Under the watchful eye of about a dozen police officers,
residents held a 20-metre (60-foot) banner reading "Reject High-
Voltage Lines, Reject Leukaemia," and expressed concern over the
health effects if the line is completed.


The power line would pass about 100 metres from their residential
complex and straddle its children's playground.


"Our kids would be playing right under the high-voltage line. Do
you think that is safe?" said a resident who gave only his
surname, Yang.


Protesters said they bought flats in the middle-class complex,
just a short drive from Beijing's Olympic Park, for the area's
open spaces, only to see unsightly power towers spring up.


"We are surrounded. We are afraid to take our children outside,"
said a woman surnamed Chen.


The development houses about 900 people. Residents said the new
towers closest to their homes went up quickly last week with no
prior notice, and the government has not responded to their
complaints.


Power cables have yet to be added to the new towers.


Beijing is investing about 40 billion dollars to upgrade its
infrastructure for the August 2008 Games.


The protesters, many of them professionals, chanted "Support a
Green Olympics!", invoking Beijing's official pro-environment
mantra for the Games.


Public unrest over such issues is increasingly common throughout
China but protests remain relatively rare in Beijing, the capital
and seat of government authority.


Local police declined comment. Power company officials denied
knowledge of the situation.

