

Thousands of North Koreans paid their respects Sunday to the
communist state's late founder Kim Il-Sung as the capital took on
a festival atmosphere for his 95th birth anniversary.


Families, with the men in suits and ties and the women in
colourful traditional gowns, took leisurely strolls across
Pyongyang where cherry blossoms were in bloom on one of the most
important dates on its calendar.


At the marble Kumsusan mausoleum on the giant Kim Il-Sung square,
thousands poured in to view the embalmed body of the leader, who
died in 1994 but retains the title of "eternal president."


After passing through stringent security including several metal
detectors, visitors bowed four times -- at the feet, head and
both sides of Kim's body -- as a revolutionary hymn was played on
loudspeakers.


A Kumsusan official said some 50,000 visitors were expected at
the memorial Sunday on the birth anniversary of Kim, whose son
Kim Jong-Il is the current leader.


The visitors were to include 1,200 foreigners including 300
permanent residents in Pyongyang such as diplomats and non-
governmental workers brought in on a tramway, the official said.


Elsewhere in Pyongyang, families and groups of schoolchildren
bowed deeply and laid flowers in front of a giant bronze statue
of the eternal president outside a museum in his honour.


The festivities started Saturday evening with a mass display of
choreographed gymnastics, which the official Korean Central News
Agency said showed "the politico-ideological might of the
revolutionary ranks single-mindedly united around the
headquarters of the revolution."


The events started just as a deadline passed for North Korea to
shut a nuclear reactor under a six-nation aid-for-disarmament
deal.


North Korea has refused to begin closing the Yongbyon facility
until it sees 25 million dollars that were blacklisted at a bank
in the Chinese territory of Macau.

