

Angry Auckland Blues coach David Nucifora has blasted referee
Stuart Dickinson for the manner in which his side was dislodged
from the top of the Super 14 table by the Coastal Sharks on
Saturday.


Nucifora risked censure after he had words with the Australian at
halftime and then criticised the referee at a post-match press
conference.


"Our players were being interfered with off the ball," Nucifora
said after the heated match in which the Blues were beaten 25-32
and slipped to second place behind the Canterbury Crusaders.


"We did ask for that to be policed during the game but I didn't
think it was done satisfactorily. It started quite a bit of the
niggle."


While Nucifora accepted the Sharks deserved their win, two of the
three Sharks tries were questionable.


Winger Odwa Ndungane scored from a blatant forward pass and
fellow winger JP Pietersen touched down just on halftime after
the Sharks disrupted Auckland's possession at a ruck.


"There were some disappointing decisions in the game. We were
disappointed with the first two tries. I think the one on
halftime was particularly obvious what happened to everyone."


The spiteful match came to a head midway through the second half
when Blues centre Sam Tuitupou was sin-binned for throwing what
appeared to be retaliatory punches at Sharks lock Johan Ackerman.


"It would be a nice day when the referees and the rest of the
officials sat in front of you (the media) and explained some of
their decisions," Nucifora said.


"It wasn't just the referee who I thought made some mistakes," he
added.


"I thought one of the touch judges also made quite a few errors
out there."


Earlier this year, Queensland Reds coach Eddie Jones was fined
10,000 Australian dollars (7,800 US) for criticising referee Matt
Goddard.

