

Rescue workers on Sunday continued their searched for survivors
after a flash flood killed at least 35 holidaymakers who were
bathing in two waterfalls in southern Thailand.


Authorities resumed the hunt at dawn after a torrent of water
poured over the waterfalls on Saturday afternoon in Trang, a
seaside province 700 kilometres (440 miles) south of Bangkok.


"Seven more dead bodies were brought to hospital this morning,
bringing the death toll up to 35," said Sinchai Rongdej, hospital
director at Yantakhao district where the waterfalls are located.


Thirty-four of the victims were Thai, including 15 children,
Sinchai said, while one of the dead was a Laos national.


Trang's police chief Major General Kajorn Siriwan said that about
10 holidaymakers remained missing.


More than 100 people were swimming at the Sairung and Prai Sawan
waterfalls, which are about five kilometres apart, when the flood
struck. The area was crowded because of the five-day holiday
weekend celebrating Buddhist New Year.


"We rescued more than one hundred tourists yesterday so the
number left is not likely to be high," said Kajorn.


"Some two hundred people including police, provincial officials
and rescue workers are trying to find about ten missing people,"
he added.


Sinchai said that 17 women, three men, 10 boys and five girls
were killed when the powerful water knocked them over.


"More than 90 percent of the dead were hit by rocks after they
fell in the force of the flash flood," he said. "Almost all of
them had wounds on their heads and their faces."


Twenty people were injured in the flood, he said, with one
remaining in hospital for treatment.


The English-language Bangkok Post newspaper reported that the
floods were caused by run-off from heavy rain on a nearby
mountain range.

