

Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert and Palestinian president
Mahmud Abbas are to meet on Sunday for the first of what are
expected to be regular meetings aimed at jump-starting the peace
process.


The two leaders will meet on Sunday afternoon at Olmert's
official residence in Jerusalem following up on their agreement
-- announced last month by visiting US Secretary of State
Condoleezza Rice -- to meet every two weeks.


Discussions are due to touch on on drawn-out talks over a
possible Palestinian prisoner release in return for an Israeli
soldier seized by Gaza militants, and the future functioning of a
Palestinian state, officials said.


"Questions such as the system of government of the future
Palestinian state, its legal and economic systems, will be looked
at during the meeting," Olmert's spokeswoman Miri Eisin told AFP.


"But central questions on the final resolution of the conflict,
such as that dealing with borders, that of Jerusalem and of
refugees, will not be discussed," she said.


The meeting comes as Israel said it is ready for preliminary
contacts with the Arab League over an initiative revived at an
Arab summit last month for comprehensive Middle East peace.


"For the moment there is no channel of discussions between Israel
and the Arab League, and the coming period must be limited to
preliminary contacts," Deputy Prime Minister Shimon Peres told
public radio.


"All the parties are seeking channels that would enable the
opening of discussions on the disputed points," he added.


The Arab plan offers Israel peace and normal ties with Arab
countries in exchange for withdrawing from Arab land occupied
during the 1967 Six Day War, allowing the creation of a
Palestinian state and the return of refugees.


Israel, which initially rejected the plan when it was unveiled in
2002, has recently said it could provide a basis for talks
provided there are amendments to the refugee issue -- something
the Arab countries have refused to do.

