

Deena Kastor will try to become the first American in 22 years to
win the Boston Marathon here Monday, but she will likey have to
combat a raging storm as well as a world-class field.


Weather forecasts for the 111th edition of the epic race call for
heavy rain and sub-freezing cold plus blustery winds gusting as
high as 50 mph, often forcing the runners to battle into a severe
headwind.


Kastor, 34, won last year's London Marathon with a career-best
time of 2 hours, 19 mins, 36 secs. Kastor also captured the 2005
Chicago Marathon and took the bronze medal in the women's
marathon at the 2004 Athens Olympics.


"Five and a half years after my first marathon, I'm finally
running Boston," Kastor said. "It is an honor to be a part of it
this year and it is my greatest desire to win this prestigious
event.


"For the 22 years I have been running I have promised myself to
keep setting loftier goals in this sport. Boston is my next lofty
focus."


She hopes to become the first US man or woman to win a Boston
Marathon since Lisa Larsen Weidenbach in 1985, but she will be
challenged by defending champion Rita Jeptoo of Kenya and
Latvia's Jelena Prokopcuka.


Jeptoo, 26, won here last year in 2:23:38 while Prokopcuka, 30,
has won the New York Marathon each of the past two years and she
has a strong history at Boston, placing fourth in 2004 and second
the following year.


Also back to defend a Boston Marathon crown is Kenya's Robert
Cheruiyot, who set the race record last year with his triumph in
2:07:14.


Compatriots Robert Cheboror and Benjamin Maiyo have the only two
faster entry times. Maiyo was the 2006 Boston runner-up and the
2005 Chicago runner-up in 2:07:09. Cheboror was second here in
2004 and in Hamburg last year.


Kenyans have won 14 of the past 16 men's titles at Boston and six
of the past seven Boston women's crowns.


Each winner will receive 100,000 dollars from a total prize money
pool of 575,000 dollars.

