

Canadian Paul Tracy was hospitalized with a fractured vertebrae
after a crash in practice Saturday for the Champ Car Grand Prix
of Long Beach.


Tracy, whose triumph in the series in 2003 marked the last time a
driver other than France's Sebastien Bourdais claimed the Champ
Car crown, was coming off a third-place finish in the opening
race of the season at Las Vegas last Sunday.


He was fifth-fastest in the first qualifying session on Friday.


"It's really a shame because it pretty much ruins the
championship for us this year," Tracy said. "I'm very
disappointed for the whole team because we had gotten off to a
great start in Vegas and we were pretty strong here, we were
building momentum and just hoping to be fast and consistent the
whole year."


Tracy crashed into the turn one wall in the morning practice
session and was taken to hospital after experiencing back pain.


"I was coming off turn one and got back on the throttle pretty
hard and the car just snapped around," Tracy said. "I went head
on into the wall and then the car jumped up in the air and then
slammed back on the ground. I could tell something was wrong
right away."


X-rays and MRI examinations confirmed a compression fracture to
his first lumbar vertebrae.


His team, Forsythe Racing, said he would miss the remainder of
the weekend and it wasn't yet known when he would be able to
return to racing.


"Now I'm just going to go home and rest for a couple of days and
then early next week we'll start figuring out the best recovery
options so I can get back in the car as soon as possible," Tracy
said.


Tracy will be replaced in the Forsythe Championship Racing 3
entry by 2005 Champ Car World Series runner-up Oriol Servia of
Spain.

