

Manly Sea Eagles and Melbourne Storm are the only unbeaten teams
remaining in Australia's National Rugby League after North
Queensland Cowboys suffered their first loss to the New Zealand
Warriors in Auckland Sunday.


The Warriors bounced back from back-to-back losses to down the
Cowboys 34-14 and leave the Sea Eagles and Storm joint leaders of
the NRL after five rounds.


Manly battled back to overcome Canterbury Bulldogs 14-12 and the
Storm were too strong for St George Illawarra, winning 24-10 on
Saturday.


The Warriors powered home from 10-10 at halftime to claim their
third win of the season.


Newcastle proved life does exist after Andrew Johns with the
Knights coming from behind to down South Sydney 23-22 in Gosford
on Sunday.


Playing their first game since the retirement of champion scrum-
half Johns, the Knights appeared headed for a second successive
loss until fullback Kurt Gidley and new No.7 Jarrod Mullen
sparked a late comeback.


Gidley finished with 15 points coming from two tries, three
conversions and a 35-metre drop goal that sealed the result in
the 70th minute.


Wests Tigers broke through for their first win after snatching a
thrilling 14-12 extra time golden point win over Cronulla at home
Sunday.


A stripping-the-ball penalty against Sharks backrower Lance
Thompson three minutes into extra time was enough to hand the
Tigers their first win of the season, with Benji Marshall landing
the penalty attempt.


Just minutes earlier, Marshall had provided a lifeline for the
Tigers with a stunning intercept try.

