

Iran on Sunday launched a tender for offers to build two new
nuclear power stations alongside a still unfinished facility in
the southern city of Bushehr, despite increasing Western pressure
over its atomic drive.


"Iran is launching two tenders for the construction of two
nuclear power stations of between 1,000 and 1,600 megawatts
capacity in Bushehr," the director of production of nuclear
energy, Ahmad Fayaz Bakhsh, told reporters.


Bushehr is the location of Iran's first nuclear power plant which
is being built by a Russian contractor. However its completion,
due for this year, has been held up by a string of delays amid
mutual acrimony.


Fayaz Bakhsh said Iran's atomic energy agency would hand over the
tender offer documents Sunday for publication in the press in the
next days. "The offer ends on August 10," he said.


"There are already contacts with Russian and European firms. It
is expected that construction would take between nine and 11
years," he said.


Western countries want Iran to suspend uranium enrichment, a
sensitive process used in the manufacture of nuclear fuel, over
fears it could be diverted to make nuclear weapons. Iran insists
it only wants to produce energy.


Iran has refused to give in to the demands and has pressed on
with its nuclear programme, saying its uranium enrichment has now
reached an "industrial phase".


The plan for the first Bushehr plant envisages that Russia will
deliver the nuclear fuel itself but the consignment has yet to
arrive and Iran has said it wants to be self-sufficient in fuel
production.


"Fuel would be produced through local and foreign production. As
part of the 20-year economic plan, Iran intends to produce the
fuel for two power stations," Fayaz Bakhsh said.

