

US Attorney General Alberto Gonzales insisted Sunday he did
nothing improper in firing eight federal prosecutors, despite
charges the attorneys had been let go for political reasons.


"I know that I did not -- and would not -- ask for the
resignation of any US attorney for an improper reason," Gozales
wrote in The Washington Post Sunday.


"Furthermore, I have no basis to believe that anyone involved in
this process sought the removal of a US attorney for an improper
reason," he continued.


Most of the attorneys were fired in one fell swoop last December,
ostensibly for poor performance.


But members of Congress soon learned that all eight had received
good performance reviews, a discovery that fueled allegations
that in reality, the dismissals were politically motivated.


The skeptics were given new ammunition last month when Democratic
Senator Dianne Feinstein of California revealed that San Diego US
attorney Carol Lam had been fired after she notified the Justice
Department that she intended to execute search warrants on Kyle
Dustin "Dusty" Foggo, the third-ranking CIA official at the time,
as part of an anti-corruption investigation.


Foggo was a close friend and associate of former Republican
congressman Randy "Duke" Cunningham, who in late 2005 pleaded
guilty to accepting 2.4 million dollars in bribes and is now in
jail.


In a departure from his earlier statement, Gonzales acknowledged
that last year, he had directed his then-deputy chief of staff,
Kyle Sampson, to initiate this process of dismissals and approved
his final recommendations.


But he argued that during his conversations with Sampson, he "did
not make decisions about who should or should not be asked to
resign."


The attorney is to give his testimony on the matter before the
Senate Judiciary Committee on Tuesday.

