

Ecuadoran President Rafael Correa, addressing the nation a day
before a referendum on constitutional reform, revealed Saturday
that his late father had been jailed for drug trafficking in the
United States.


"When I was five my father, who was unemployed, took drugs to the
United States and went to jail. He spent three years in prison"
in the 1970s, Correa said in his weekly radio address.


"I have nothing to hide. I had a very hard childhood," he said.
His mother had kept the story a secret from him for years,
telling him his father had gone to work in the United States.


He rejected as "despicable" an allegation by opposition deputy
Luis Almeida that Correa's family had links to drug trafficking.


"It is shameful to say that drug trafficking supported us. My
mother supported us, cooking and selling food which I distributed
after school," he said.


Correa said his late father "was a victim of the system, not a
criminal, an unemployed man who was desperately seeking to feed
his family."


"That's why I feel for the thousands of people imprisoned for so-
called drug trafficking who are simply mules, desperately
trafficking a few grams to earn a few dollars. Those are the ones
who rot for eight, 10 years in prison."


Correa has said he might quit if he loses Sunday's referendum,
which follows weeks of political crisis. Voters are called to
decide whether a national assembly should be elected to rewrite
the constitution.


The leftist president was elected less than five months ago on
promises of radical changes in the volatile South American
country, including a renegotiation of foreign debt and a review
of oil contracts.

