

Thousands of people took to Taipei's streets Sunday demanding the
government save a home for lepers due to be demolished to make
way for a transport depot, activists said.


Some 3,000 protesters chanted slogans and held placards
highlighting their appeal for the "Losheng" sanatorium, which was
built in 1932 by the Japanese, who then ruled Taiwan.


The sanatorium still houses 45 elderly lepers who refuse to move.
Developers plan to knock down the remaining 13-hectare (32-acre)
facilities, after some 17 hectares had already been taken away
for the construction of a subway line maintenance depot.


Premier Su Tseng-chang, responding last last week to mounting
pressure against the demolition, promised further deliberations
on activists' demands that 90 percent of the facilities be
preserved.


Su also agreed that the deadline for the levelling the
facilities, previously slated for Monday, would be postponed for
two months.


The sanatorium had been all but ignored for decades until a few
weeks ago, when local support for a subway line under
construction turned into anger at what Hsinchuang residents said
were unnecessary delays due to the refusal of the lepers to move
out.


Hsinchuang residents say further delays would cost another three
billion Taiwan dollars, on top of the planned 175 billion Taiwan
dollars (5.3 billion US).


The lepers' supporters say Hsinchuang residents have been misled
and that some local government chiefs have financial interests in
the project.


Citing a government report, the activists say up to 90 percent of
the premises could be preserved in a proposal that would cost
only an additional 290 million dollars and result in a four-month
delay.

