

Russian President Vladimir Putin rolled out the red carpet for
Belgian actor Jean-Claude Van Damme and a score of grizzled
martial arts fighters in Saint Petersburg, state-run television
reported Sunday.


Putin treated the fighters to tea and cakes at the chandelier-
lined hall of the Konstantinovsky palace following a mixed
martial arts contest.


Dubbed "Russia versus America", Saturday's contest was won by
Russian champion Fedor Yemelyanenko who defeated US rival Matt
"The Law" Lindland.


Television footage showed judo enthusiast Putin, dressed entirely
in black and with no tie, greeting martial arts films veteran Van
Damme in the sports hall.


The ultra-violent fights were interspersed with dancing by women
in revealing red dresses. Former Italian premier Silvio
Berlusconi, a friend of Putin's, was also reported to be in the
audience.


Mixed martial arts is a controversial limited-rules combat sport
in which fighters use techniques taken from a variety of
disciplines against each other.


Putin was shown on Rossiya television embracing Yemelyanenko
after his fight and later hosting him at the tea party where cup
cakes were served on a candlelit table.


"You have a very tough sport, but it is not without dignity and
respect toward your partner," Putin said. "Brave people are in
this sport."


Van Damme, the star of a string of martial arts films, dressed in
an open white shirt, described the occasion as an honour, Vesti
television reported.


"I know that officials can give speeches, but what the president
just said was not a political speech, but that of a person
speaking from the heart," he said, according to a Russian
translation.

