

A 5.4-magnitude earthquake rattled central Japan on Sunday,
injuring six people and disrupting traffic and some factory
production lines, officials said.


The quake struck at 12:19pm (0319 GMT) some 16 kilometres (10
miles) below ground and about 300 kilometres west of Tokyo, the
Meteorological Agency said, revising earlier figures.


A 60-year-old man and a woman aged 59 were hurt at a roadside
restaurant in Kameyama, in Mie prefecture, when part of a ceiling
board fell on them.


A 47-year-old man was also taken to hospital after cutting his
forehead as he tried to get out of a building in Kizu, in Kyoto
prefecture, police said.


Local officials said three others were also injured, adding the
injuries of the six victims were not serious.


Television footage showed the collapse of a two-metre wide
(6.6-feet),  four- metre high part of the stone wall of Kameyama
Castle, while local media said some 50 houses were damaged.


A meteorological agency official denied the quake was a symptom
of a big jolt expected in the region, but warned strong
aftershocks may hit the area in about a week.


West Japan Railway Co. said some trains, including Shinkansen
bullet trains, were temporarily suspended, while parts of
expressways in the areas were closed for checks.


The government set up a taskforce at the prime minister's office
in Tokyo to gather information on quake-related injuries and
damage, officials said.


Late last month, a powerful earthquake with a magnitude of 6.9
hit the Noto peninsula in central Japan, killing one person and
injuring more than 200.


Japan lies at the junction of four tectonic plates and
experiences some 20 percent of the world's most powerful
earthquakes.


In 1995, a 7.3-magnitude earthquake in the western city of Kobe
killed more than 6,400 people.

