

A leading Hong Kong democrat Sunday sought to capitalise on
Chinese leaders' remarks in support of political reform here and
urged the government to quickly lay out a timetable for
democratisation of the city's political system.


Yeung Sum, former chairman of the Democratic Party, said his
organisation's decade-long campaign for representative politics
in the former British colony had been given a boost by Chinese
President Hu Jintao.


In a meeting last week with Hong Kong's political leader Donald
Tsang in Beijing, Hu listed the orderly progression towards
democracy as one of the city's most pressing issues.


Yeung said the time was ripe for change.


"Universal suffrage has been implemented for (some) elections
since 1982 ... over the years, Hong Kong has become such a mature
civil society that there is no more acceptable excuse not to have
it fully implemented in Hong Kong," he said in a radio address.


"It is time to return the votes to all Hong Kong people. All Hong
Kong people should have equal political rights. Give Hong Kong
what it deserves," he added.


Hong Kong became a territory of China when Britain ceded control,
after 156 years of colonial rule, in 1997.


Under the "one country, two systems" arrangement hammered out
between Beijing and London, freewheeling Hong Kong exists within
the authoritarian Chinese state as a largely autonomous city,
with rights not enjoyed anywhere else in China.


The post-colonial Basic Law constitution stipulates that leaders
must eventually be elected by direct popular vote. At present
leaders are selected by a panel of pro-Beijing elites.


However, the Basic Law doesn't specify when such change should
take place, and Hong Kong's political scene has been dominated
for 10 years by a feud between those who back swift reforms and
those who support the government's wait-and-see approach.


Tsang, who was last month handed a second term, has promised to
settle the issue during his next five years as leader.

