

A 5.4-magnitude earthquake rattled central Japan on Sunday,
injuring three people and disrupting traffic and some factory
production lines, officials said.


The quake struck at 12:19pm (0319 GMT) some 16 kilometres (10
miles) below ground and about 300 kilometres west of Tokyo, the
Meteorological Agency said, revising earlier figures.


A 60-year-old man and woman, aged 59, were hurt at roadside
restaurant in Kameyama, in Mie prefecture, when part of a ceiling
board fell on them.


They were taken to a nearby hospital but their injuries were not
serious, a local firefighter said.


A 47-year-old man was also taken to hospital after cutting his
forehead as he tried to get out of a building in Kizu, in Kyoto
prefecture, police said.


Separately, West Japan Railway Co. said some trains, including
Shinkansen bullet trains, were temporarily suspended, while parts
of expressways in the areas were closed for checks.


The quake also suspended operations at Sharp Corp.'s Kameyama
plant, where the Japanese electronics maker manufactures liquid
crystal displays.


"The line stopped as a safety device was on," said Hiroyuki
Morimitsu, a plant official. "But operations resumed shortly
after we confirmed that there was no damage to our facilities."


The government set up a task force at the prime minister's office
in Tokyo to gather information on quake-related injuries and
damage, officials said.


Late last month, a powerful earthquake with a magnitude of 6.9
hit the Noto peninsula in central Japan, killing one person and
injuring more than 200.


Japan lies at the junction of four tectonic plates and
experiences some 20 percent of the world's most powerful
earthquakes.


In 1995, a 7.3-magnitude earthquake in the western city of Kobe
killed more than 6,400 people.

