

The US economy expanded at a 2.5 percent annualized pace in the
fourth quarter of 2006, a bit faster than earlier estimates,
revised data showed Thursday.


The Commerce Department revision for gross domestic product (GDP)
was up from a 2.2 percent estimate released a month earlier.


Much of the upward revision came from a higher level of
inventories, which could mean lower output in the current
quarter, a bit more business investment and lower imports.


The latest data meant growth for the full year 2006 was 3.3
percent, unchanged the estimate last month.


Robert Brusca at FAO Economics said the revision gives little
reason to cheer.


"GDP is stronger on stronger inventory growth and weaker
imports," he said.


"Weaker imports tell us that the economy is even weaker than we
though since imports are a part of demand that is served from
overseas ... it's a signal that economics condition are weaker
here."


A key inflation index linked to GDP was revised to show a decline
of 1.0 percent in the fourth quarter, revised from an earlier
estimate of a 0.9 percent drop. Core prices, which exclude food
and energy, increased 1.8 percent, revised down from 1.9 percent.


Over the year, the price index was up 2.7 percent and core prices
rose 2.2 percent.


Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke on Wednesday repeated his
view that the economy will remain on a "moderate" growth path
despite weakness in the housing sector.


He also said inflation pressures are elevated but likely to ease.


But Bernanke said the outlook for both growth and inflation
remains subject to uncertainties, particularly in the housing
market.


Residential investment plunged 19.8 percent in the fourth
quarter, revised from the earlier estimate of a 19.1 percent
drop.

