

A leading separatist group behind a long-running insurgency in
India's northeast on Thursday rejected the Assam state
government's offer of peace talks and warned of further violence.


"The offer for unconditional peace talks is not acceptable to
us," said senior rebel leader Arabinda Rajkhowa in a statement.


"The freedom fighters have reached such a stage that they would
strap bombs on their chest and attack."


The state government offered on Tuesday to hold unconditional
peace talks with the rebels of the outlawed United Liberation
Front of Asom (ULFA).


The offer came in the wake of overtures for talks from the rebel
group, which has been fighting for an independent homeland since
1979.


The rebels reiterated their long-standing position -- that they
will attend talks only after New Delhi releases five senior
rebels who are in prison and agrees to discuss their demand for
independence.


The state government has already said that sovereignty is out of
the question, leaving the two sides at an impasse, and prompting
rebels on Thursday to warn of further violence.


"If the government does not stop ridiculing our demands ... and
our birthright (of independence), then the situation would turn
frightening in the very near future," the rebel statement said.


The federal government and ULFA representatives have held three
rounds of talks, but the dialogue broke down in September after
New Delhi called off a six-week ceasefire and resumed military
operations against the group.


The guerrilla group was also blamed for a string of ethnically
motivated attacks in January that killed about 80 people.


More than 10,000 people have lost their lives to insurgency in
Assam during the past two decades.

