

Oil-rich Kazakhstan is interested in a planned oil pipeline route
from Ukraine to northern Europe but wants Russia to be involved,
President Nursultan Nazarbayev said Thursday.


"I want to underline that we are interested and it is essential
to invite the Russian side to participate in the negotiations,"
Nazarbayev said at the close of a meeting with his Polish
counterpart Lech Kaczynski.


"Around 2012-2014 Kazakhstan will become one of the main
suppliers of oil to the world market.... That is why the Odessa-
Brody-Gdansk project is a good option for us," he said.


Kaczynski said Poland was keen to reduce its dependence on
Russian energy and saw the troubled pipeline project, which has
US backing, as a solution.


"We are not enemies of Russia but Poland wants to diversify its
fossil fuel suppliers," the Polish president said on a tour that
was to take him to Azerbaijan on Friday.


The pipeline plan is based on an existing pipeline from Odessa on
Ukraine's Black Sea coast to Brody in Poland that was completed
in 2001.


The pipeline was intended to bring oil from the Caspian region to
European markets but proved uneconomic and is now used in the
opposite direction for Russian shipments to southern markets.


Poland and Ukraine hope the pipeline can be made to work as
intended by extending it to the Polish port of Gdansk, on the
Baltic Sea.


Nazarbayev said it would be necessary to involve Russia as a
transit route for Caspian oil to the Black Sea due to a lack of
alternative transit infrastructure.


Landlocked Kazakhstan has long been wary of upsetting its
northern neighbour and Soviet-era master Russia.


Kaczynski said he was inviting Nazarbayev and the presidents of
Azerbaijan, Georgia and Ukraine to an energy summit in Warsaw in
May.

