

The European Parliament adopted Thursday a report on professional
football urging tougher action against racism and violence,
tighter controls on agents and measures to protect young talent.


The non-binding report also proposes ways to improve governance
in sport, employment rules, media rights and to combat doping.


"We ask for stricter sanctions against any kind of discriminatory
acts and to strengthen the coordination of preventive measures
and sanctions concerning hooligans," assembly President Hans-Gert
Poettering said.


"We must eliminate violence from football and keep it a safe and
enjoyable activity for all," he said.


Officials from world football's governing body FIFA and the
European equivalent UEFA praised the report as "historic" and
"crucial for the future", and said it would be taken into account
in future reform.


Drawn up by Belgian conservative MEP Ivo Belet, the document
calls on the European Commission, the EU's executive body, to
draw up an action plan for sport in general and football in
particular.


The aim, he said, is to clarify how European law applies to
sport.


It also strives to help bring the financial race between clubs to
a halt by centrally supervising television rights and stimulating
investment in young players.


The report said UEFA's licensing system needs to be developed to
guarantee financial transparency and proper management, and
called for the creation of collective insurance for players when
they play for their national teams.


Belet welcomed its adoption and said he hoped it would "put
pressure on football authorities" to end some of the more
suspicious practices surfacing in the sport.

