

Wall Street shares firmed Thursday as an upward revision to US
economic growth helped ease fears about a slowdown and prompted
bargain hunting a day after a big selloff.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average climbed 53.35 points (0.43
percent) to 12,353.71 at 1520 GMT, recouping a big share of
Wednesday's losses.


The tech-dominated Nasdaq composite edged up 1.79 points (0.07
percent) to 2,418.89 and the broad-market Standard and Poor's 500
increased 5.98 points (0.42 percent) to 1,423.21.


Ahead of the bell, the US government released data showing the US
economy grew at a 2.5 percent pace in the fourth quarter, a bit
faster than earlier estimates.


This helped spark a rebound from Wednesday's selloff, when
markets were jittery about Federal Reserve chief Ben Bernanke's
remains about "uncertainties" in the US housing market and
uncomfortably high inflation.


"This revision is minor, but serves as a reminder that economic
growth is right at the sweet spot for the Fed's desired soft
landing," said Dick Green at Briefing.com.


"Growth is slightly below long-term potential of 3.0 percent to
an extent that will ease inflationary pressures over time, but
not so weak as to cause significant economic dislocations."


Fred Dickson at DA Davidson said the market seemed to have looked
past fears about growing tensions with Iran and shaken off the
notion that Bernanke seemed to have dashed hopes for a cut in
interest rates.


"Market concerns over the situation in Iran appear to be built
into the market at the current price level," he said.


"Dr. Bernanke's comments about the Fed's concern over fighting
inflation will most likely subdue market bulls who last week
incorrectly interpreted the Fed's policy statement as signaling a
move toward a 'neutral' bias."


Keeping a lid on gains was another rise in oil prices. New York
crude futures increased 59 cents to 64.67 dollars a barrel.


Among stocks in focus, Citigroup rose 43 cents to 51.39 as the US
banking giant announced plans to double the number of its
consumer bank outlets in China.


Boeing was up 31 cents at 89.76 after the aerospace group won an
order from Avianca Airlines of Colombia for 10 of its 787
Dreamliners worth as much as 1.5 billion dollars.


General Motors fell seven cents to 31.17 after a Financial Times
report said the world's biggest automaker was not in the running
for a bid for the Chrysler unit of DaimlerChrysler.


US Steel rallied 2.79 dollars to 100.40 after announcing plans to
buy Lone Star Technologies, a company specializing in making
steel pipes used in oil fields, for 2.1 billion dollars. Lone
Star shares surged 17.62 to 66.08.


Retailer TJX rose 39 cents to 26.89 despite revealing that a data
breach reported earlier this year may have been bigger than
anticipated, exposing some 45.6 million credit and debit card
numbers.


Bond were mixed. The yield on the 10-year US Treasury bond
increased to 4.626 percent from 4.620 percent Wednesday and that
on the 30-year bond fell to 4.825 percent against 4.831 percent.
Bond yields and prices move in opposite directions.

