

Real Madrid are prepared to splash out 100 million euros on new
players to recapture past glories, according to Spanish newspaper
Marca on Thursday.


And top of the nine-time European champions' shopping list is
still Manchester United's Portuguese winger Cristiano Ronaldo,
although not at the reported 80 million euros bandied around in
the Spanish press.


Real president Ramon Calderon has put 100 million euros on the
table, accroding to Marca, despite seeing little return form the
106 million euros he recently invested in Ruud van Nistelrooy,
Fabio Cannavaro, Mahamdou Diarra, Emerson, Fernando Gago and
Gonazalo Higuain.


However, he recently confirmed that he is not willing to break
the world record of 75 million euros his club paid Juventus for
former world player of the year Zinedine Zidane in 2001.


"We like Cristiano, but right now he is a Manchester United
player. But if the English team want to sell him, we would be
first in line for him," Calderon told Atena 3 television channel.


"But we will not pay crazy money. A footballer is not worth 80
million euros."


Other players interesting the Real chief are AC Milan's Brazilian
playmaker Kaka, Borussia Dortmund's Germany defender Christoph
Metzelder, Porto's Brazilian defender Pepe and AS Roma's Romanian
defender Cristian Chivu.


Marseille's France winger Franck Ribery, currently injured, has
also been mentioned as a potential target.


According to Marca, Real are on course to surpass the single
season record of 122 million euros that previously president
Florentino Perez spent in 2000/01.


They have not won a single trophy in more than three and a half
seasons and are desperate to end that barren run.

