

Global Positioning System (GPS) coordinates of two British boats
seized with 15 sailors were changed by Iran to make it appear
they were in Iranian waters, Britain's UN envoy said Thursday.


"It was only when we point out that the detention (of the 15
British sailors and marines) was inappropriate and in our view
unlawful that the coordinates were then changed by the Iranian
government to be coordinates within Iranian waters," British
Ambassador Emyr Jones Parry said.


He told reporters that he would be pressing the UN Security
Council to adopt later in the day a "press statement which will
make clear the support of the council for the release of the
people who in the view of British government have been wrongfully
detained."


He expressed the hope that the 15 Britons, including a woman
sailor, would be released "immediately."


"Our position has been consistent for six days. We want these
guys all released immediately. We think the detention was
inappropriate and I hope I can get the Security Council to rally
to that simple proposition," the British envoy said.


The 15 Britons were captured on Friday in the northern Gulf in
what Iran insists were its territorial waters but Britain says
they were picked up while on a routine patrol in Iraqi waters.


But on Thursday, Iran demanded an apology from London over what
it said was the "illegal entry" of British navy personnel into
its waters and defended its decision not to release a woman
sailor.


"The logical solution to resolving this affair is for the British
authorities to accept the reality, present their apologies to the
great Iranian people," General Alireza Afshar, spokesman for the
head of Iran's armed forces, was quoted as saying by the semi-
official Mehr news agency.


He said Britain also needed to "admit the truth and make a
commitment not to violate our waters again".

