

Italy's defending world champion Filippo Magnini and Canadian
Brent Hayden shared the men's 100-metres freestyle world title in
a sensational first-ever dead-heat in a world final here
Thursday.


European champion Magnini and Hayden hit the wall in a frenetic
finish in 48.43 seconds with Australian Eamon Sullivan taking
bronze, four-hundredths of a second away in 48.47.


It is the first time in 12 world championships that there has
been a dead-heat in a final.


Both swimmers jumped out of the pool and hugged each other and
raised each other's arm as champion.


Magnini, who set a new championship record on his way to winning
the 2005 world title in Montreal, won a silver medal earlier in
the meet anchoring the Italian 4x100m freestyle relay team.


"First I saw that I was the first and I felt happy. When I saw
there was another name (Hayden), my happiness remained," Magnini
said.


"I said before that we would make the Italian anthem play here,
and we did."


Hayden won gold at last year's Pan Pacs in Canada and broke his
national record in the dead-heat.


"I have been thinking about this gold medal for a really long
time. It was just really overwhelming to see that I had won it,"
Hayden said.


"There is always a point where you feel like you have hit the
wall and that is what I felt when I was 20m out.


"But I told myself you have come too far not to do this. So I
didn't take a breath and put my head down and went as fast as I
could."


Dutchman Pieter van den Hoogenband, the triple Olympic champion,
finished sixth but had the comfort that he still owns the world
record of 47.84 set in the semi-finals at the 2000 Sydney
Olympics.


Hoogie is still to win a world championship gold medal and this
was his last individual event in Melbourne.

