

Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas urged Israel on Thursday to
accept a revived Arab peace plan in order "not to miss another
chance" to resolve the Israeli- Palestinian conflict.


The peace offer "must be turned into a practical and
comprehensive plan... applicable without any change in its
clauses or even its text," Abbas said in a speech to the Arab
summit in Riyadh.


Arab leaders decided on Wednesday to reactivate the 2002
blueprint which offers Israel peace and normal ties if it
withdraws from all land seized in the 1967 war and allows the
creation of a Palestinian state and the return of Palestinian
refugees.


"From here, I confirm the Palestinians' will to extend a hand of
peace to the Israeli people," Abbas said.


"I call on this people and its leaders to respond to this
dream... so that we can realise it together, with the support of
Arab and Islamic states as well as the whole international
community and so that we don't miss another chance." Israeli
officials on Thursday refused to accept the peace initiative as
it currently stands, saying negotiations were needed.


"There is only one way to overcome our differences, and that is
negotiation," Deputy Prime Minister Shimon Peres told Israeli
public radio. "It's impossible to say: you must take what we
offer you as is."


Israel sees the demand for the right of return of Palestinian
refugees as a stumbling block.


"This initiative demonstrated to the whole world that the
position of the Arabs and Palestinians toward peace is very
clear," Abbas said.


"Those who call for dividing this initiative or amending some of
its elements are trying to evade the price of peace," he said.


The Palestinian leader, whose Fatah party recently formed a unity
government with the Islamist Hamas movement, reiterated his
"rejection of violence," warning that any delay in achieving
peace could spark new wars in the Middle East and ignite
"regional and international confrontations."

