

Libya, Tunisia, Algeria, Morocco and Mauritania on Thursday
backed plans to liberalise air transport in the region by 2008.


Ministers from the five-member Arab Maghreb Union (AMU) have set
up a committee to examine Morocco's proposal for an "open skies"
deal, according to a joint statement issued following a meeting
in Skhirat, south of Rabat.


They called on Maghreb aviation companies to draw up plans by the
end of April to cooperate over development, maintenance and
commercial matters.


The AMU was set up in February 1989 to improve integration on
economic and political matters, but political disagreements have
hindered that goal.


Driss Benhima, the director general of aviation firm Royal Air
Maroc, stressed the urgency of liberalising the air transport
sector.


"As Europe creates an open air space in which Morroco is a part,
it seems more and more anachronistic that there is not a similar
Maghreb open skies (deal)," he told AFP at Skhirat.


Benhima praised a recent liberalisation agreement between Morocco
and Tunisia, which he said had increased the number of daily
flights between Casablanca and Tunis from six to 14, with
25-a-day planned by the summer.


Moroccan Transport Minister Karim Ghellab told AFP: "For certain
Maghreb countries, the liberalisation of air transport will
require a period of reflection, but I think the 2008 date is
reasonable.


"Opening the skies will allow the creation of new routes and
(aviation) firms will make more profits."


The AMU ministers also approved a deal on maritime transport that
they are expected to begin ratifying shortly.

