

Iran on Thursday demanded an apology from Britain over what it
said was the "illegal entry" of British navy personnel into its
waters and defended its decision not to release a woman sailor.


"The logical solution to resolving this affair is for the British
authorities to accept the reality, present their apologies to the
great Iranian people," General Alireza Afshar, spokesman for the
head of the country's armed forces, was quoted as saying by the
semi-official Mehr news agency.


He said Britain also needed to "admit the truth and make a
commitment not to violate our waters again".


Iran has defied international calls to release the sailors and on
Thursday said it would not free the only woman being held as it
had promised, blaming Britain for over-reacting to their
detention.


The 15 were captured on Friday in the northern Gulf in what Iran
insists were its territorial waters but Britain says they were
picked up while on a routine patrol in Iraqi waters.


"The decision to free the woman sailor was taken in accordance
with Islamic and human values... but the British chose to
threaten and intimidate us instead of appreciating this
humanitarian move," Afshar said.


"The propaganda and psychological warfare by those in London put
her release in jeopardy."


Iranian foreign ministry spokesman Mohammad Ali Hosseini also
condemned what he said was European interference in the affair.


"European officials had better advise British leaders to abandon
their colonial attitude, avoid propaganda and recognise the right
of nations to defend their territory," he said.


"The interference of irrelevant parties interference does not
help resolve the issue."


Earlier Thursday, the French foreign ministry called in Iran's
ambassador to Paris to convey its "deep concern" over the
detention of the 15, while EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana
described it as "unacceptable".

