

Russia was on Thursday convicted by the European human rights
court for having held a man for four years in overcrowded cells
in which he had less than one square metre (square yard) of
personal space.


Andrey Frolov, who is serving a 16-year prison sentence for armed
robbery, had filed suit with the European Court of Human Rights
claiming that from 1999 to 2003 he was held in 11 different cells
at the Kresty jail in Saint Petersburg that each held 12 to 14
prisoners in a space measuring only eight square metres.


With only six bunks to a cell, the prisoners were forced to take
turns sleeping, Frolov charged, complaining also that there was
no curtain between the toilet and the rest of the cell and that
all the inmates in one cell were only allotted a total of six
minutes to shower each week.


"Inmates were afforded less than 0.7 square metres of personal
space. For more than four years the applicant was confined to his
cell day and night, save for one hour of daily outdoor exercise,"
the court stated.


"The fact that the applicant was obliged to live, sleep and use
the toilet in the same cell with so many other inmates for more
than four years was itself sufficient to cause distress or
hardship of an intensity exceeding the unavoidable level of
suffering inherent in detention," the court said.


The detention conditions were bad enough to arouse in Frolov
"feelings of fear, anguish and inferiority capable of humiliating
and debasing him," the court said, ruling that Russia had
therefore violated Article 3 of the European human rights
convention.


The court ordered Russia to pay Frolov 15,000 euros (20,000
dollars) for pain and suffering.

