

Iraqi President Jalal Talabani said on Thursday that the US-led
invasion of his country four years ago had turned into an
occupation with dire consequences for Iraq.


Talabani, a member of the Kurdish minority, which has been
largely insulated from the violence and devastation visited on
other parts of the country since Saddam Hussein fell, was
addressing the Arab summit in the Saudi capital.


"The decision to turn the liberation of Iraq into an occupation
... with the dire consequences this had internally and the fears
(it aroused) in Arab, regional and international arenas, all this
was contrary to what Iraqi parties and national forces were
planning at the time," he said.


"This applies equally to many hasty decisions and measures taken
by the occupation's civil administration without understanding
the Iraqis' point of view and the consequences they had on the
situation in the country and the political process as a whole,"
he said.


"The policies pursued in the wake of the overthrow of the former
regime, and the weakness of the international response to the
will of the political forces who rallied to rebuild the new Iraq,
stymied our early quest to broaden popular participation in order
to ... establish security and stability and confront the
challenges of sabotage, chaos and terrorism as quickly as
possible and with the least human and material losses."


Talabani did not spell out the mistakes he was referring to, but
the US-run civil administration installed after Saddam's fall has
been widely criticised for taking decisions that have made the
situation worse.


Particularly were the disbanding of the Saddam regime's army and
the banning of the former dictator's Baath party. That left tens
of thousands of military personnel and civilian officials and
bureaucrats without jobs, fueling an insurgency among the
minority Sunni community from which most of them came.

