

The dollar steadied against main rivals on Thursday as the market
awaited key US fourth-quarter economic growth figures.


The euro rose to 1.3334 dollars in early European trading, from
1.3312 dollars late in New York on Wednesday.


The dollar climbed to 117.39 yen in European trade from 116.85
yen late on Wednesday.


US growth data, set for release Thursday, comes a day after
Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke dampened hopes of a quick
rate cut by saying US economic growth was continuing and
inflation remained a key concern.


"The bottom line is that the Fed will remain highly data
dependent,," HBOS analyst Steve Pearson said.


Bernanke meanwhile added in a key testimony to Congress that the
impact of difficulties in the US mortgage market had not spread
into the wider economy.


In his most extensive discussion of the problem to date, the Fed
chairman said problems in the sub-prime market seemed likely to
be contained.


Sub-prime borrowers are generally less wealthy and thus more
vulnerable to foreclosures when variable mortgage rates rise.


Pearson of HBOS added: "If as we expect, the downside risks from
the housing market do indeed filter through to the rest of the
economy, the Fed's current infatuation with inflation will have
to give way."


Elsewhere, Japan on Thursday stressed its commitment to market-
determined exchange rates after US senators introduced
legislation seeking to stop the Japanese government
"manipulating" the yen.


"I believe that foreign exchange rates should reflect economic
fundamentals and that chaotic fluctuations in share prices and
foreign exchange rates are undesirable," said Japan's vice
finance minister Hideto Fujii.


Japan has the world's second-largest foreign exchange reserves
after China as a result of years of currency intervention by the
government to keep the yen down against the dollar and help
exporters stay competitive.


Japan's reserves hit a record high of 905.05 billion dollars in
February.


The Japanese monetary authorities have not intervened since mid-
March 2004, allowing the yen to find its own level against the
dollar.


But some critics argue that Japan's super-low interest rates are
in effect a form of currency manipulation since they ensure the
yen stays weak.


The euro was changing hands at 1.3334 dollars, against 1.3312
dollars on Wednesday, 156.53 yen (155.50), 0.6789 pounds (0.6786)
and 1.6203 Swiss francs (1.6195).


The dollar stood at 117.39 yen (116.85) and 1.2155 Swiss francs
(1.2163).


The pound was being traded at 1.9641 dollars (1.9616).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold eased to 665.10
dollars per ounce, from 666.75 dollars late on Wednesday.

