

German power company E.ON, in the midst of a bitter battle for
Spanish electricity group Endesa, said Thursday it would ask the
Spanish high court to block a counter-bid by rivals Enel of Italy
and Acciona of Spain.


E.ON said it was seeking a complete and definitive ban from
Spain's Audienca Nacional on a planned move by Enel, an energy
group, and Acciona, a construction company, to challende E.ON's
bid to Endesa.


The high court's jurisdiction is below that of the country's
supreme court.


The German group earlier this week took similar legal action
against its rivals in a US federal court and before Spain's stock
market regulator, the CNMV.


E.ON has offered 40 euros a share for Endesa, which would value
the company at 42 billion euros, but is facing a challenge from
Enel and Acciona.


The two groups, which together control 46 percent of Endesa, have
proposed at least 41 euros a share, an offer that values the
Spanish company at 43.4 billion euros.


The bidding war has been complicated by a decision last week from
the Spanish regulator barring any move by Enel and Acciona before
early October, roughly six months from now. Enel said Wednesday
it was prepared to take legal action against the regulator for
delaying its bid.


But in a statement Thursday, E.ON head Wulf Bernotat argued that
"if the behavior of Enel and Acciona is illegal today, it will
also be illegal in six months."


"We must therefore completely bar the two companies from making a
bid for Endesa."

