

A UN human rights expert blasted Iran on Thursday over the
"unacceptable" executions of juvenile offenders and called on
Tehran to commute all such death sentences.


The UN Special Rapporteur on extrajudicial and summary
executions, Philip Alston, said in a statement that four juvenile
offenders had been executed in the past two years, while death
sentences against five other were "on hold".


"The execution of juveniles in Iran is completely unacceptable",
Alston added.


"It is time for Iran to demonstrate that its commitment to
international law involves concrete action, not just empty
words," he said, calling on Tehran to "immediately commute" all
death sentences imposed for crimes committed before the age of
18.


The campaign group, Human Rights Watch, stated this week that
Iran "leads the world" in the execution of juveniles."


The UN expert insisted that Iran had made a "clear and
unambiguous commitment" on the issue when it ratified the
international Convention on the Rights of the Child in 1994.


Alston said he had examined a total of 15 cases where young
offenders had faced a possible death penalty in Iran in the past
two years. Two were acquitted, and one is under review.


Rights groups have also voiced concern about a sharp growth in
the overall number of executions in Iran, which increased by 80
percent last year to  177, according to Human Rights Watch.


The US-based group said executions often follow secret trials
that fail to meet minimum international standards.


It highlighted the case of an Iranian court that sentenced 10 men
to death following a one-day trial in July 2006.


Alston and two other UN experts released a joint statement in
January warning that convictions and death sentences in the case
could not be justified "after trials that made a mockery of due
process requirements."

