

The Iranian consulate in Iraq's southern city of Basra accused
British forces of storming and surrounding its office during a
shootout with gunmen on Thursday.


The British military flatly denied any such incident, saying its
soldiers had come under small arms fire during a routine patrol
in the vicinity of the Iranian consulate but did not leave their
vehicles.


The incident came amid a diplomatic standoff between Tehran and
London over Iran's seizure of 15 British sailors and marines in
Gulf waters last Friday.


"British forces sealed off the Iranian consulate in Basra. They
went inside for 10 minutes and after that there was intense
gunfire on them," Iranian consul Mohammed Reva Nasir told AFP in
Basra.


"This is a provocative act against the Iranian consulate in
Basra. I believe it has something to do with the British
detainees in Iran," he said.


Asked whether British troops raided the consulate, spokesman
Major David Gell told AFP: "No. Absolutely not."


"There was a vehicle patrol going back into Basra Palace (a
British base in Basra). The rear vehicle received small arms
fire. We returned fire in self defence and the patrol continued
on," Gell said.


"I'm led to believe (the incident happened) in the same street"
as the Iranian consulate, he added.


"There is absolutely no link to the building. It's pure
coincidence that it took place in that area," Gell said.


"No troops were injured and none of them got out of the vehicle."


The Iranian foreign ministry protested what it called "the
British forces' provocative act," according to a statement
obtained by AFP.


"The Iranian consulate operates with the consent of Iraqi
authorities and its personnel enjoy diplomatic immunity.


"Iran has protested to the Iraqi authorities, who are responsible
for the safety of consular personnel under international law,"
the ministry said.

