

The United States is facing a major threat from foreign
intelligence groups, including from the Russians whose American
espionage operations have matched Cold War levels, a top
intelligence official said Thursday.


The Chinese, Iranians and Cubans are among the other foreign
spies attempting to infiltrate into US secret systems and
American establishments overseas, said Joel Brenner, the head of
the Office of the National Counterintelligence Executive.


"I don't mean to suggest that the Chinese are alone in this. The
Russians are now back to Cold War levels in their efforts to
(extract intelligence information from) the United States," he
said at a forum of the American Bar Association.


"They are sending over an increasing and troubling number of
intelligence officers into the United States," he told reporters
later.


Brenner, who reports directly to the Director of National
Intelligence Michael McConnell, said "the Iranians and Cubans are
also significant" threats among the "140 foreign intelligence
services that try to penetrate the United States or US
organizations abroad.


"The job is not getting easier," he said. "And for many of them,
we are their number one target," he said.


Asked what the Russian intelligence was particularly interested
in securing from the United States, Brenner said, "What every
intelligence agency on the planet really wants is the high level
intentions of the leadership of other countries.


"And the Russians are no different than anybody else in that
respect," he said.


"They have been reeling from being one of the world's great
superpowers to being something very different and trying to build
themselves up and show that they are going have to be dealt with
like a major. It is part of their agenda here."


To highlight the extent of the Chinese espionage network in the
United States, Brenner cited the case of Chi Mak, a US citizen
born in southern China accused of attempting to smuggle out
information on a secret technology to make US submarines silent.


Chi Mak had worked as a contractor on the US Navy's quiet
electric drive, the technology designed to suppress the signature
emitted by US submarines and surface warships.


Chi Mak, whose trial is underway in California, admitted under
questioning that he had been passing information to the Chinese
since 1983 and that the technologies he had compromised included
the power distribution technology for the Aegis cruiser's radar
system, Brenner said.


"The compromise is not small potatoes," he said. "It shortens by
years the technological advantage of the US Navy. It degrades the
Navy's deterrent capability in the Taiwan Strait."


China on Thursday denied involvement with the engineer and called
allegations of Chinese espionage "groundless".

