

Joakim Noah, the son of French tennis legend Yannick Noah, has
gathered the most acclaim but he is far from the only global
connection to Saturday's US college basketball "Final Four".


Seven other players from outside the United States will be among
those here for the National Collegiate Athletic Association
(NCAA) semi-finals when Ohio State will face Georgetown and
defending champion Florida will meet the University of California
at Los Angeles (UCLA).


Noah's Florida Gators, 33-5, will play the UCLA Bruins, 29-5, in
one semi-final after Ohio State's Buckeyes, 33-3, face the
Georgetown Hoyas, 30-6 in the other. Winners will play Monday
night in the national title game.


The Gators' top stars rejected the temptation to test their
skills for big money in the National Basketball Association for
the chance of winning consecutive US crowns, a feat last achieved
by Duke in 1992.


Noah is averaging 12.2 points and 8.5 rebounds a game while
fellow junior forward Al Horford of the Dominican Republic
averages 13.2 points and a team- high 9.2 rebounds.


Sophomore guard Walter Hodge, who plays a key role off the bench
for Florida, contributes 5.8 points, 1.2 rebounds and 1.1 assists
a game.


UCLA features Cameroon-born sophomore forwards Alfred Aboya and
Luc Richard Mbah a Moute, Serbian freshman forward Nikola
Dragovic and Canadian sophomore forward Ryan Wright.


Moute, a starter in all 34 games for the Bruins, averages 8.3
points and 7.5 rebounds a game while Aboya averages 4.1 points
and 4.2 rebounds.


Wright has 1.4 points a game in 27 appearances while Dragovic
averages 1.8 points and 1.2 rebounds in six games.


Ohio State fields a lineup of Midwest talent from Ohio and
Indiana while Georgetown's roster includes only one non-US
player, reserve senior forward Sead Dizdarevic, who has played
only 21 minutes in 15 games.

