

No elite Major League Baseball players, such as those linked to
the BALCO steroid scandal, have been identified from the latest
round of raids in the newest US dope cheat scandal, the New York
Daily News reported Thursday.


Citing unnamed sources close to the investigation, the newspaper
said names from the client list of Orlando, Florida's Signature
Pharmacy have not yet yielded names of the stature of Barry
Bonds, Gary Sheffield and Jason Giambi.


Those three were connected with the BALCO case that rocked
baseball and athletics, but the latest probe, which produced its
second guilty plea Wednesday, has been focused more upon drug
distributors and corrupt doctors.


An internet drug scheme that prosecutors say involved on-line
prescribing of steroids, human growth hormone and other
performasnce-enhancing banned substances was uncovered last month
and is being tried in Albany.


A client list from a Mobile, Alabama, pharmacy in a linked
investigation reportedly included former heavyweight boxing
champion Evander Holyfield and several current and former
baseball players plus wrestlers and bodybuilders.


Prosecutors are making a list of athletes to send to their
respective sport leagues once they complete a review of the
thousands of documents seized in various operations as part of
the probe, a move that may come this week.


A.J. Peterson, a marketing director for Oasis Longevity and
Rejuvenation of Delray Beach, Florida, has pleaded guilty to
criminal diversion of prescription medications.


Peterson said he gave Signature Phramacy 10,000 dollars for
access to a doctor who would write prescriptions for patients the
physician would never examine.


Prosecutors are preparing cases against 18 other people who have
been indicted and will have Peterson's cooperation in moving
forward.

