

Japan on Thursday ordered public broadcaster NHK to give time on
its overseas television broadcasts to promoting the government's
viewpoint, despite criticism for violating freedom of speech.


Internal Affairs and Communications Minister Yoshihide Suga
instructed NHK to air "the government's policies of great
importance" and "the government's view on international problems"
in overseas television broadcasts, a ministry official said.


Similar instructions, which do not mandate a particular amount of
airtime or specify the issues to promote, already exist for NHK's
overseas shortwave radio broadcasts.


Japan last year also ordered NHK specifically to give time to a
dispute with North Korea on the abduction of Japanese civilians,
triggering criticism by the opposition and media groups about
violation of free speech.


The instructions on the abductions were renewed Thursday.


Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has built his political career
by taking a tough line on North Korea over its past abductions of
Japanese nationals.


NHK chairman Genichi Hashimoto, who received the instructions
from Suga Thursday, told reporters: "I told the minister that NHK
would keep its independence in editing programmes", although it
accepted the order.


NHK -- the Japanese initials for Japan Broadcasting Corp. -- is
primarily funded through viewer fees, although the government
supports the overseas broadcasts.


Japan's sole public broadcaster has come under repeated criticism
by liberals in recent years.


Abe admitted in 2005 before he became prime minister that he
pressured NHK to tone down a documentary on Japan's sexual
enslavement of foreign "comfort women" during World War II.

