

Canada's fisheries minister announced Thursday 270,000 harp seals
would be killed in its annual commercial hunt, deemed "the
largest marine mammal massacre in the world" by animal rights
groups.


The harvest is down 65,000 from last year due to "poor ice
conditions" in seal breeding grounds in the southern Gulf of St.
Lawrence, Minister Loyola Hearn said in a statement.


Up to 20 percent of the Atlantic herd usually nests on thick ice
floes in the southern Gulf region in February or March. But this
year authorities and animal rights groups found only slush and
ice fragments too small to support a newborn pup.


Ice floes in the northern Gulf and around Newfoundland province
where most of the seal hunting occurs remain in "good" condition,
the minister said.


"We realize mortality will be higher than normal this year (in
the southern Gulf)," a fisheries official said. "The ice
continues to deteriorate, but there are seals there."


In the past three years, one million seals have been killed in
the commercial hunt in eastern Canada. Demonstrators in Europe
and Canada in recent weeks denounced the "cruelty" of seal
hunting.


But Ottawa maintains the hunt poses no threat to the seal
population. "This year's quota will not pose any long-term threat
to the herd," a fisheries official said.


"These decisions are guided by principles of conservation. I also
want to ensure that the people who depend on this resource for
their livelihood will benefit from it over the long-term," said
Minister Hearn.


The Atlantic seal population has ballooned over the past three
decades to almost 5.5 million, he added.


Opening dates for the 2007 harp seal hunt will be announced in
the coming days, the minister said.

