

Former US vice president Al Gore is to receive an international
Emmy award for his work in television and for drawing attention
to the threat posed by global warming.


The International Academy of Television Arts and Sciences is to
present the International Emmy Founders Award to Gore at a
ceremony in New York in November, the academy said in a
statement.


"The award recognizes Mr. Gore's role in launching
cable/satellite channel Current TV and his ongoing effort to
alert the world to one of the great challenges of our time,
global warming," the statement said.


"The academy presents the Founders Award to an individual or
organization which crosses cultural boundaries to touch our
common humanity -- how perfect a definition for Al Gore," said
Academy President Bruce Paisner.


Gore wrote the best-selling book "An Inconvenient Truth," later
turned into an Oscar-winning documentary, focusing on the threat
posed by global warming.


The success of the title and Gore's resurgent popularity has
helped fuel speculation that the former vice president could be
preparing another run at the presidency -- something he has
repeatedly said he is not considering.


Gore co-founded Current TV, the first television network created
by, for and with young adults, in 2005. Rather than a traditional
network with primetime shows and a set schedule, it offers short-
form programming.


The International Academy of Television Arts and Sciences is the
largest organization of broadcasters in the world, with members
from nearly 70 countries and over 400 companies.

