

The new US ambassador to Iraq, Ryan Crocker, was sworn in at the
American embassy in Baghdad's tightly fortified Green Zone on
Thursday.


Crocker, who is one Washington's most experienced career
diplomats with extensive knowledge of the Middle East, replaces
Zalmay Khalilzad, who left the country earlier this week after a
21-month posting.


He was sworn in by embassy official Tina Tran at a ceremony
attended by US Lieutenant General David Petraeus, the head of US
forces in Iraq, and by embassy officials, embassy spokesman Lou
Fintor said.


"We have a historic challenge ahead of us. Terrorists, insurgents
and militias continue to threaten security in Baghdad and around
the country. Security is without question the central issue,"
Crocker told the ceremony.


"Much remains to be done. New democratic institutions require
strengthening as does the rule of law... These challenges will
demand a strong commitment and broad performance from the Iraqi
government and the international community."


Crocker takes over as US and Iraqi troops are locked in a massive
security crackdown that has deployed 80,000 troops in and around
Baghdad in a bid to quell burgeoning sectarian warfare and the
ongoing insurgency.


He has previously been ambassador in Lebanon, Kuwait, Syria and
Pakistan. He has also been posted in Afghanistan, Iraq, Iran and
Egypt.


A fluent Arabic speaker and legendary workaholic with a
reputation for being a no-nonsense player, he constrasts with
Khalilzad's more informal style. He survived the 1983 bombing of
the US embassy in Beirut that killed 63 people.


Crocker met his wife, now a retired foreign service secretary, in
Baghdad in 1979.


He will present his credentials to Iraqi President Jalal Talabani
soon.

