

Israel's President Moshe Katsav, on temporary leave over a
looming rape charge, was questioned on Thursday by police over a
new sexual offence charge.


"President Moshe Katsav was questioned for three hours over a
complaint filed by one of the women who had filed a complaint
against him in the past," police spokesman Micky Rosenfeld told
AFP.


"He is suspected of a sexual assault offence," he said.


The 61-year-old Katsav took a leave of absence from his largely
ceremonial post in late January after the attorney general said
he intended to indict him over a range of charges against him,
including rape, sexual harassment, abuse of power, breach of
trust and accepting bribes.


Katsav faces a hearing over the allegations on May 2 in a final
step before the attorney general decides whether to charge him.


Rape in Israel carries a maximum sentence of 16 years in prison.
Although Katsav temporarily suspended himself from duty for three
months in January, he currently retains immunity from
prosecution. His mandate expires in July.


Katsav has insisted he is innocent and rejected intense pressure
from the Israeli public and politicians of all persuasions to
resign.


He faces the prospect of becoming Israel's second consecutive
president to be forced from office by scandal, ending his career
in disgrace and perhaps prison.


His predecessor, the late Ezer Weizman, was forced to resign in
2000 after revelations that he received around 450,000 dollars
from French millionaire Edouard Saroussi in the 1980s when
Weizman was an MP and minister.

