

The United Nations' Kosovo mediator Martti Ahtisaari "will fail"
if he pursues his current plan for the province, Russian Foreign
Minister Sergei Lavrov said Thursday.


"This problem can't be solved without taking into account the
positions of the two conflicting sides, Belgrade and Pristina.
Ahtisaari has decided to ignore them, but I think he will fail,"
Lavrov was quoted by Interfax news agency as saying.


Ahtisaaris has proposed internationally supervised independence
for the ethnic Albanian majority province, a position rejected by
Belgrade.


Resolving the conflicting positions of Belgrade and Pristina is
central to settling Kosovo's situation, Lavrov said at a meeting
with Portuguese counterpart Luis Amado.


Russia, a veto-wielding member of the UN Security Council, has
stepped up its opposition to the Ahtisaari plan ahead of a debate
in the Security Council next month aimed at settling Kosovo's
status.


President Vladimir Putin spelt out his objections in a phone
conversation with US President George W. Bush on Wednesday.


In response to the latest statements from Moscow, Kosovo's ethnic
Albanian president, Fatmir Sejdiu, urged the Russian leadership
to be a positive influence in international efforts to give
Kosovo a new status this year.


"We expect Russia to be constructive in its approach to this
final phase instead of obstructive," Sejdiu said on a visit to
the western Kosovo town of Djakovica.


Moscow has insisted that any solution must be agreeable to Serbia
as well as Kosovo's ethnic Albanian majority.


Belgrade has rejected independence for Kosovo, calling instead
for more negotiations.


Russia has close ties with Serbia and strongly objected to NATO's
bombing of the then Yugoslavia in 1999 to stop a Serb crackdown
on ethnic Albanians in Kosovo.


The United Nations has administered the province since the NATO
bombing helped to drive out Serb forces.

