

Greece on Thursday signed a security system deal with a US-based
contractor that had been pending from the Athens 2004 Olympics
and delayed by disputes during the competition over its
operational readiness.


"We managed to obtain excellent adjustments on technical issues
where there were imperfections," Greek Public Order Minister
Vyron Polydoras told reporters.


"We also gained financially," he said.


San Diego-based Science Applications International Corporation
(SAIC) was under contract in 2003-2004 to provide a centralised
command and communications system for the Athens Games, but the
system proved unworkable because of software glitches.


Greek officials said they worked around the problem by using
staff rather than electronic interfaces, and the Games were
deemed a security success.


But the Greek state subsequently declined to pay the system's
full 259-million- euro (346-million-dollar) price tag.


Under the new deal, Greece will pay SAIC a total of 245.6 million
euros in 2003 prices -- a discount of 13.4 million, out of which
118 million euros has already been furnished, the ministry said
in a statement.


In return, SAIC will provide Greek police with a backup secure
radio communications centre, free equipment worth 7.5 million
euros and 28 traffic surveillance cameras.


"It's a very exciting day for SAIC," said company representative
Grant Clark.


Dozens of street cameras installed prior to the Games have been
damaged or destroyed in the last three years in arson attacks by
self-styled anarchists.


Greece's security operation for the 2004 Olympics was the most
extensive and costly in Games history, valued at over one billion
euros (1.34 billion dollars).

