

Turkey refuses to end a trade row with Cyprus until the European
Union brings a halt to the economic isolation of the island's
poorer Turkish-speaking north, Ankara's EU negotiator said
Thursday.


"The EU has made a decision (in 2004) to lift these embargoes, to
bring the isolation to an end, and we are simply waiting for that
political commitment to be fulfilled," Ali Babacan told reporters
in Brussels.


Turkey wants to join the EU but does not recognise member country
Cyprus.


It refuses to fully extend a customs agreement to the
Mediterranean island and will not allow Greek Cypriot aircraft
and ships into its ports and airports.


Turkey seized the northern third of Cyprus in 1974 in response to
an Athens- engineered coup aimed at uniting the island with
Greece, but the Turkish Cypriot statelet there is not recognised
internationally.


"We will not be able to make progress on the ports and airports
issue unless the isolation comes to an end. This is our position
at any cost," Babacan said.


On January 22, the 27 EU countries, including Cyprus, agreed to
work toward lifting the trade isolation of the north "without
delay."


"Nowadays there are some efforts on the EU side," Babacan
conceded. "But of course we will have to see how it goes on."


"Ultimately the decision about whether the isolation is over or
not is up to us," he added.


An EU official told AFP, on condition of anonymity, that the
Cypriot government in Nicosia is hardly in a negotiating mood
either.


He said they were "totally intransigent on direct trade" and that
he thought no progress would be made on the problem until after
the presidential elections in Cyprus in the second quarter of
2008.

