

British Prime Minister Tony Blair announced Thursday the creation
of a new national security department to fight terrorism, as part
of a radical overhaul of the beleaguered interior ministry.


Under the plan announced by Blair in a written statement to
parliament, the ministry known as the Home Office will be split
into two departments: one for national security and the other for
the justice system.


"The changes set out here are aimed at producing a step change in
our approach to managing the terrorist threat to the UK and
winning the battle for hearts and minds," Blair said.


Britain has intensified efforts to counter terrorism since July
7, 2005, when four Islamist suicide bombers blew themselves up on
three London Underground trains and a bus, killing themselves and
52 commuters.


The changes have also been driven by scandals in the criminal
justice system.


Home Secretary John Reid, the no-nonsense Blair ally tasked with
reforming the unwieldy ministry since he was appointed to the job
more than a year ago, said Britain was keeping step with the
times.


He said Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett would retain control
of Britain's overseas intelligence service MI6 while Communities
Secretary Ruth Kelly would retain her responsibilities for
community cohesion, which includes ties with the minority Muslim
community.


David Davis, the senior Conservative MP who is shadow home
secretary, told members of parliament that breaking up the Home
Office will create a new set of problems.


He claimed the overhaul "will leave public security undermined
and a justice system overwhelmed," adding that officials would be
"distracted" by the changes rather than focusing on fighting
terror, overflowing prisons and immigration.


The Home Office has been in turmoil this year after it emerged
that an alleged oversight led to hundreds of files on serious
criminals convicted of offenses in Europe not being entered on
police computer records.

