

Coordinated suicide car bombings, mortar rounds and roadside
explosions killed at least 43 people and wounded another 86 in
the Iraqi Shiite town of Khalis on Thursday, a security official
said.


The explosions unleashed carnage, killing and maiming men, women
and children during the busy shopping hours ahead of the main
Muslim day of rest on Friday, said Ahmed al-Khadran, brother of
the town's mayor.


The first suicide car bombing targeted a market, the second blew
up near the downtown court house and the third at a new army base
under construction in the city in the restive Diyala province,
Khadran said.


At least nine mortar attacks were also reported in residential
areas while two roadside bombs exploded in a main street near the
market, targeting security and rescue workers who rushed to the
scene of the initial attack.


The attacks in Khalis came with nearly 150 people were killed
over the past two days in Iraq, mostly in a massive bout of
sectarian bloodshed in the northern town of Tal Afar where
policemen went on a rampage killing Sunni Arabs after a bomb
attack that killed dozens, mostly Shiites.


The restive province of Diyala, which is home to Khalis, has seen
increased insurgent attacks in the past few weeks.


The US military maintains that attacks have increased in the
province mainly after a security clampdown in Baghdad since last
month.


About 80,000 US and Iraqi troops are patrolling the streets of
Baghad to quell a raging insurgency and bitter sectarian
bloodletting.

