

A Paris-based watchdog Thursday blasted Pakistani government
claims the country was a model for media freedom and criticised
pressure placed on a leading newspaper.


Reporters Without Borders (RSF) took odds with Information
Minister Mohammad Ali Durrani's claims this week that due to
"bold initiatives," Pakistan was a "model of free media in the
entire South Asian region."


"How can you claim this when recent weeks have been marked by
grave acts of censorship and violence against independent media?"
RSF secretary-general Robert Menard said in an open letter to
Durrani.


"Pakistan is far from being a model," he wrote, adding that media
"continue to be subjected to considerable pressure" from the
government.


Menard cited protests against the removal of the supreme court's
chief justice, during which police ransacked the office of the
private Geo television this month.


"The president and you did indeed express regret about the police
violence, but what measures have you taken to ensure that
privately-owned television stations will finally be able to work
freely?" he asked.


Menard also criticised drastic cuts in government advertising
with the Dawn group of newspapers since December.


"The group is being subjected to shocking commercial and legal
harassment," he said.


"The group's refusal to change its editorial policies led the
government to impose its sanctions in order to undermine its
financial situation," Menard wrote.


"If you would really like Pakistan to become a model, the first
thing you should do is put a stop to the harassment of the Dawn
group," he added.


Menard also criticised the Pakistan Electronic Media Regulatory
Authority (PEMRA), which he said recently forced two TV stations
to censor themselves.

