

A UN human rights expert on Thursday accused Bangladeshi security
forces of using murder as a means of law enforcement and warned
that the country's reputation was on the line.


"The government of Bangladesh must stop the Rapid Action
Batallion and other elite security forces from using murder as a
policing technique," the UN Special Rapporteur on extrajudicial
executions Philip Alston said in a statement.


Alston said in a report that his request for information on 27
deaths that authorities had attributed to "crossfire" in police
shootouts had gone unanswered.


"The pattern of incidents would suggest that what the police and
special  forces report as crossfire' deaths are in fact staged
extrajudicial executions," the report added.


Alston called the Bangladeshi government's "apparent
indifference" to the allegations "deeply disturbing."


"The involvement of the police in extrajudicial executions is of
great  concern to the international community, and the reputation
of Bangladesh is on the line," he warned.


Alston, an Australian academic, underlined that the state of
emergency could not justify any violations of the right to life.


President Iajuddin Ahmed imposed emergency rule in January and
cancelled disputed elections scheduled that month.


The new government, headed by former central bank governor
Fakhruddin Ahmed, said earlier this month that it would set up a
national human rights commission as soon as possible to deal with
all rights issues.


The decision came after human right groups said extrajudicial
killings by law enforcement agencies had continued under the
military-backed, caretaker government, with at least 50
unexplained deaths since it took power on January 12.

