

Spanish police said Thursday that more arrests were possible in
an operation targeting Basque separatists that has so far
resulted in the capture of eight people.


Police conducted a series of raids on Wednesday in northern
Spain.


Those arrested included Jose Angel Lerin Sanchez, an alleged
member of Basque separatist group ETA on the run since 2005. He
had previously been convicted for attacking a police officer.


"The operation continues and we cannot rule out the possibility
of new arrests," a police official said.


Spanish media reported that the operation aimed to dismantle a
new "commando" being set up by Sanchez that was planning an
eventual attack.


However, secretary of state for security Antonio Camacho told
Spain public radio that the operation uncovered no clues that
such an attack was "imminent."


Lerin was in possession of handguns stolen from a gun
manufacturer in Vauvert, France in October when he was arrested,
several Spanish newspapers reported.


Spanish media also reported that searches on Wednesday turned up
30 kilograms (66 pounds) of explosives, detonators and other bomb
material. Police could not confirm those reports.


Spain's socialist government has been heavily criticised by
opposition members, who say it is too soft in its dealings with
Basque separatists. Local elections are scheduled for May.


Opposed to any dialogue with ETA, the opposition Popular Party
has warned that Spanish unity is at risk.


The armed Basque separatist movement is blamed for 819 deaths in
its 38-year campaign to win independence for the region. Both the
EU and the US State Department consider ETA a terrorist
organisation.


ETA declared a permanent ceasefire a year ago, but it was
shattered by a truck bomb blast on December 30 which killed two
men at Madrid's international airport.


The attack led Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero to
break off all contact with the militants.

