

Former Australian captain Ian Chappell has called for the World
Cup to be shortened.


The marathon 2007 tournament in the Caribbean lasts for almost
seven weeks and features 16 teams.


But Chappell believes it can be trimmed.


"I am quite happy with the globalising of the game, but I really
think the World Cup is running too long at the moment," said the
Australian.


"Let's take the eight major teams as they are. I would then like
to see two teams qualify to make it ten and then I would like to
see those teams play each other once, so that everybody has
played each other," Chappell said in his www.cricinfo.com column.


"The team that goes on to win the World Cup would have played all
the other teams once, no one will have missed out and the
tournament will come to an end much faster."


Chappell also thinks a shortened version would still involve the
non-Test playing nations who, with the exception of Ireland, have
been generally out of the depth here.


"For those who would then jump up and down and say that there is
no encouragement for the minnows, what I would say is that
firstly, they play in the qualifying tournament," added Chappell.


"We had these practice games before the tournament that all the
major teams played in, which I thought was a good idea as it
helps in getting used to the conditions.


"The minnows could be involved in those games as they could then
play against the major sides. I think the most important thing is
that it is not so much what you do with the minnows at the World
Cup.


"I think it's what you do in between the World Cups to make sure
that these teams are getting an opportunity to get better, so
that eventually down the line, we get a World Cup where there are
16 teams competing - they're all competitive - and it is an elite
tournament."

