

French police arrested at least nine people and two others were
injured on Tuesday when a row over a subway ticket at the Gare du
Nord subway station descended into a riot.


Windows were smashed, vending machines broken and the shutters
bent when up to 100 youths clashed with police at the station,
where the mainline Eurostar terminal is a major gateway from
Paris to the rest of Europe.


The trouble started when a 33-year-old without a ticket jumped
the barriers in the subway station and was stopped by railway
officials, police said. He tried to resist and is accused of
injuring two of the officials.


Police patrolling the station intervened and arrested him.


However, several young people who witnessed the incident began to
gather in protest against what they perceived to be the use of
excessive force by police. The passenger was evacuated from the
station but the crowd grew.


Some began throwing plastic bottles at police and shouted insults
at Nicolas Sarkozy, the former interior minister. They also
chanted slogans of "police are everywhere, justice is nowhere"
and "down with the state, police and bosses".


Police reinforcements arrived and officers responded by spraying
tear-gas at the crowd and occasionally charging them to force
them back. The violent scenes continued late into Tuesday
evening.


In 2005, youths and police clashed every night for three weeks in
France's worst riots for decades. Sarkozy, who left the
government on Monday to run for the presidency, was accused of
provoking the rioters by calling them "scum".

