

The sole woman among 15 British sailors held captive by Iran said
in an interview with the BBC before their seizure that she knew
she could "go to war at any time," in footage aired by the
broadcaster on Tuesday.


Speaking to a BBC reporter aboard the HMS Cornwall, Faye Turney
said: "My parents made sure that I was under no illusions that I
could and can go to war at any time, and that's the choice I
made."


"So, it's always been, sometimes it becomes a bit like a cruise
... but you've got to have it in the back of your head that
sometimes you may be called upon, and ... you've just got to deal
with it, and get on with it."


Turney, a 26-year-old married mother of one, was among eight
sailors and seven marines whom Britain says were conducting
"routine" anti-smuggling operations when they were seized at
gunpoint in the Shatt al-Arab waterway in the north of the Gulf
on Friday.


Iran says they had intruded into Iranian waters.


British Prime Minister Tony Blair warned Iran on Tuesday that the
row could enter a "different phase" if they were not freed soon,
remarks which Tehran condemned as provocative.


His official spokesman said London was not looking to escalate
the stand-off and would prefer a diplomatic solution, insisting
that Britain was not considering military action or throwing out
Iran's ambassador.


Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett meanwhile cut short a visit to
Turkey in order to report to parliament Wednesday, having hit a
dead end in talks with her Iranian counterpart Manouchehr
Mottaki.

