

Shares in Channel tunnel operator Eurotunnel fell by 6.82 percent
Tuesday in Paris trades after quotations resumed following a
10-month suspension.


The stock had been suspended pending a financial restructuring to
rescue the company from debt exceeding nine billion euros (12
billion dollars) and a threat of bankruptcy.


The price of Eurotunnel Units, grouping shares quoted in Paris
and London, fell to 0.41 euros. The last price quoted had been
0.44 euros on May 12, 2006.


Eurotunnel has about 500,000 shareholders. The shares were
launched at 5.34 euros in 1987.


"Eurotunnel was too optimistic regarding construction timetables
and commercial receipts," an analyst at a European bank
commented.


"Traffic forecasts in the beginning were for 20 million Eurostar
(high speed train) passengers in 2006, but the group had only 7.8
million last year.


"On the positive side, restructuring of the debt has brought it
down to a less abnormal level and the company will now be able to
concentrate on strategy and its activities."


On Friday, Eurotunnel presented to the French stock market
authority AMF the "basic document" for Groupe Eurotunnel SA (GET
SA), the new entity intended to replace the existing companies,
together with an offer to exchange shares to complete the
transformation.


Under the financial restructuring, GET SA will have debt of 4.16
billion euros. Interest due on the debt has also been slashed.


The exchange offer is based on one unit in Eurotunnel for one
share in GET SA and a right to subscribe for a share, and sets
the minimum level of acceptance for the exchange to succeed at 60
percent of units in Euronext.


The offer would open on April 10 and last until May 15. If
successful, it would be reopened on May 28 to June 8.

