

US Defense Secretary Robert Gates said Tuesday the United States
is open to higher-level exchanges with Iran but urged greater
realism about Tehran's intentions.


"We should have no illusions about the nature of this regime --
or about their designs for their nuclear program, their
intentions for Iraq, or their ambitions in the Gulf region," he
said.


In a speech to the American-Turkish Council here, Gates called on
Iraq's neighbors to encourage political reconciliation and a
reduction in violence in the country.


He said recent regional talks in Baghdad "were a good start
toward improved cooperation, and our government is open to
higher-level exchanges."


The March 10 talks included a rare face-to-face encounter between
senior US and Iranian officials. Outgoing US Ambassador to Iraq
Zalmay Khalilzad later said he briefly exchanged views with his
Iranian counterpart.


Gates noted that before joining the Bush administration he had
advocated for some dialogue with Iran.


"But in dealing with a regime like Iran's, one has to be
realistic," he said.


He recalled joining then-national security adviser Zbigniew
Brzezinski in a meeting in Algiers with Iran's political leaders
shortly after the 1979 Islamic revolution.


"We discussed the possibility of continuing the partnership that
had previously existed under the Shah -- including military
assistance to the new government," he said.


"Three days later came word that 66 of our diplomats had been
seized in Tehran, and two weeks later, the prime minister and
defense and foreign ministers with whom we had met were out of
their jobs."

