

The Palestinian premier and the Norwegian foreign minister met in
Riyadh on Tuesday, where they agreed on the need to resolve the
cases of prisoners held by the Palestinians and the Israelis, a
Palestinian official said.


Prime minister Ismail Haniya "had a meeting with Jonas Gahr
Stoere, who raised the question of the Israeli soldier, Gilad
Shalit, held prisoner by the Palestinian resistance," the
official said.


"It was agreed that that matter should be resolved and that
Palestinian prisoners in Israeli jails should be freed," he
added.


Norway was the first country to normalise ties with the new
Palestinian unity cabinet following its formation earlier this
month, with Deputy Foreign Minister Raymond Johansen meeting
Haniya last week.


The European Union and the United States froze direct aid to the
Palestinian Authority last year after Hamas formed its own
government in March following its defeat of the long-ruling Fatah
party in parliamentary elections.


They are demanding that the new government, a coalition with
Fatah and a number of independents, renounce violence, recognise
Israel and accept previous interim peace agreements. Hamas,
considered a terror group by the United States, European Union
and Israel, has consistently refused to do so.


Shalit was captured in June of last year in a raid on an army
post on the border with the Gaza Strip, and Israel has demanded
his release as a condition for moving forward with any peace
talks with the Palestinians.

