

A Ukrainian coach has been banned from making contact with his
daughter after he was filmed in a physical altercation with her
at the World Swimming Championships.


Mikhail Zubkov, 38, has been thrown out of the championships and
police issued a domestic violence order against him.


It prevents any contact with 18-year-old daughter Kateryna
Zubkova, a 2004 European champion backstroker, or coming within
200 metres of her.


The fight happened Tuesday evening in the marshalling room at Rod
Laver Arena where the swimmers gather before a race.


It was captured on camera by host broadcaster Channel Nine.


Victoria state police superintendent Mick Williams said the
images were "disturbing" and police held concerns for the girl's
safety.


He added that police were investigating whether any criminal
charges could be laid.


The girl, the holder of eight Ukrainian national titles, has been
interviewed by police and examined by a doctor who found she was
uninjured.


She competed in the 50m backstroke heats Wednesday morning and
won but finished 18th overall, missing out on the semi-finals.


"The advice I've got is she was quite open and frank, and did not
hold back about what the incident was about," Williams told
reporters.


Melbourne 2007 director Michael Scott said the scenes were
"unacceptable" and that world swimming governing body FINA had
revoked the man's accreditation and would complete their own
investigation into the matter.


"It is unacceptable in Australia, it is unacceptable anywhere
else in the world that sort of behaviour," Scott told reporters.


"It is a very serious matter. FINA have advised us they have
withdrawn the accreditation of the individual immediately.


"FINA will conduct their own investigation into that matter and
announce their outcome as soon as possible."

