

Regulators Tuesday approved a private equity takeover of
Univision, the biggest US Spanish-language broadcaster, but also
fined the group 24 million dollars for a lack of educational
programming.


The Federal Communications Commission approved the deal for the
buyout for 12.3 billion dollars plus the assumption of 1.4
billion dollars in debt by a consortium including Saban Capital
Group, Madison Dearborn Partners, Providence Equity Partners,
Texas Pacific Group and Thomas H. Lee Partners.


Univision, which operates 24 channels and is best known for its
dramatic "telenovelas," or soap operas, was fined for failure to
comply with a 1996 law requiring at least three hours of
educational programming per week.


The fine is the largest ever imposed on a broadcaster by the FCC.


"Broadcasters also enjoy special privileges such as carriage on
cable systems," said FCC chairman Kevin Martin.


"In exchange for their use of the airwaves and these other
rights, broadcasters are responsible for serving the public,
including the children in their audience. Both Congress and the
Federal Communications Commission have taken steps to ensure
broadcasters are mindful of the unique needs and vulnerabilities
of children."


The buyers of Univision hailed the FCC approval of the buyout


"This important step paves the way to close BMP's acquisition of
Univision," said Joe Uva, who will become Univision's chief
executive upon completion of the acquisition.


"Univision is the fastest growing media company in the country. I
am very excited to begin working with the company's strong
leadership team, talented employees, and partners to build on the
great success for which Univision is so well known."


Univision is the largest US-based Spanish language media company,
reaching 98 percent of Hispanic households. It owns the Univision
and TeleFutura broadcast- TV networks as well as the Galavision
cable network, 62 TV stations and 69 radio stations, as well as
other assets.

