

The US Senate on Tuesday for the first time voted for a provision
that would tie funding for the war in Iraq to a timetable for the
withdrawal of US troops.


The measure went down in a vote of 48 to 50.


The amendment by Senator Thad Cochran, and backed by virtually
all of his fellow Republicans, came on the second day of Senate
debate over sending an additional 121.6 billion dollars for the
wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.


The language on withdrawing US troops is nearly identical to the
wording of a bill that failed in the Senate two weeks ago,
prompting Republicans complain that Democrats were needlessly
holding up funding to the troops to make a political point.


"We need to be speeding this funding to our troops rather than
slowing it down by returning to a debate already settled by the
Senate," Cochran said as he introduced his amendment on Monday.


Bush has promised to veto the measure, over the extra spending as
well as the deadline for troop pullout.


A vote on the entire supplemental spending bill is expected later
in the week.


The measure is 20 billion dollars more than US president George
W. Bush's 103 -billion-dollar request, and includes some domestic
spending measures such as Hurricane Katrina recovery.


The House of Representatives last week narrowly passed its own
124-billion- dollar version of the spending bill for the wars in
Iraq and Afghanistan, including a firm deadline for getting US
troops out of Iraq by August 31, 2008.


The bill that squeaked through the House approved 124 billion
dollars in emergency funding for the war.


Saturday, Bush warned in his weekly radio address that if
Congress does not approve a cash infusion for Iraq and
Afghanistan by April 15, the forces in both countries "will face
significant disruptions."

