

The dollar slipped Tuesday against the euro and yen after US
consumer confidence figures came in below expectations.


The euro edged up to 1.3353 dollars in late European trading from
1.3330 late in New York on Monday.


The dollar fell to 117.80 yen in European trade from 118.09 yen
late on Monday.


The US Conference Board said its Consumer Confidence Index had
fallen to 107.2, down from the revised 111.2 in February.
Analysts had expected a reading of 109.


The March index was the lowest since November 2006 when the
reading was 105.3.


However, the figures showed US consumers' assessment of present
conditions had improved slightly with the present situation index
up to 137.6 from 137.1 in February.


"Consumer assessments of the current state of the labour market
improved to the highest reading in over five years," noted
analysts at Barclays.


"We interpret this report as another indicator that the labour
market is tight, but that consumers are concerned about the
potential effect of recent financial market volatility and rising
gasoline prices," they added.


However, after the dollar fell on Monday following the release of
weak new home sales data, the reaction was limited.


"There was a short term reaction with day traders taking a quick
profit, but other than that the data didn't cause much of
surprise," said Paul Bednarczyk, currency strategist at 4CAST.


The market will now be waiting to see what happens when US
Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke makes his crucial testimony
to the US Congress Joint Economic Committee on Wednesday.


"After mixed US housing data has drawn differing views of the
state of the housing sector, the market will be interested in
Bernanke's assessment of the subprime situation," said Gavin
Friend, currency strategist at Commerzbank Corporates &
Markets.


"As important will be his remarks on whether the FOMC (Federal
Open Market Committee) has ended its explicit tightening bias
given the ambiguity in the statement," he added.


Though the monetary policy committee last kept the key Fed funds
rate unchanged at 5.25 percent, members appeared to soften their
rhetoric, sparking a dollar retreat.


The euro was changing hands at 1.3353 dollars, against 1.3330
dollars on Monday, 157.30 yen (157.44), 0.6794 pounds (0.6769)
and 1.6207 Swiss francs (1.6200).


The dollar stood at 117.80 yen (118.09) and 1.2138 Swiss francs
(1.2154).


The pound was being traded at 1.9656 dollars (1.9691).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold rose to 664
dollars per ounce, from 663 dollars late on Monday.

