

US shares posted losses Tuesday as investors appeared unsettled
by a weaker- than-expected snapshot on consumer spending and
lingering troubles affecting the nation's housing market.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed down 71.78 points (0.58
percent) at 12,397.29.


The Nasdaq composite finished 18.20 points (0.74 percent) lower
at 2,437.43 while the broad-market Standard and Poor's 500
dropped 8.89 points (0.62 percent) at 1,428.61.


Stocks fell after the Conference Board reported that its consumer
confidence index dropped to 107.2 from 111.2 in February.


The softer-than-expected reading on US consumer confidence fueled
worries that the housing market slump might dent consumer
spending, which accounts for two- thirds of US economic activity.


It also came as a congressional panel held a hearing into the
mortgage industry and "subprime" loans, and as Lennar Homes, one
of America's biggest home builders, reported a sharp slide in
first quarter earnings.


Lennar said its quarterly net profits fell a hefty 274 percent to
68.6 million dollars from the same period of 2006. The
homebuilder cited "weakness" in the housing market and "well-
publicized problems in the subprime lending market."


Lennar's shares closed down four cents at 44.50 dollars. KB Home
closed 68 cents weaker at 45.31 dollars while Beazer Homes
finished down 91 cents at 31.41 dollars.


Fearful of a housing sector meltdown, amid rising foreclosures,
congressional lawmakers said they were assessing ways to avert
the situation worsening amid fears it could destablize the wider
economy.


Meanwhile, US defense contractor ITT Corp. agreed to pay 100
million dollars, one of the largest fines ever in a criminal
case, for the illegal export of night vision technology to China
and other countries.


ITT, the leading manufacturer of night vision equipment for the
US armed forces, agreed to plead guilty to the charge becoming
the first major defense contractor convicted of a criminal
violation of the Arms Export Control Act, the Justice Department
said.


The contractor's shares closed down 37 cents at 60.82 dollars.


In the banking sector, the Federal Reserve announced its approval
of Bank of America's multi-billion dollar proposal to takeover
the US Trust Corporation and its subsidiary bank.


Bank of America, which is vying to topple Citigroup as America's
biggest banking group, saw its shares close 28 cents higher at
51.84 dollars.


Oil market jitters also kept stocks under pressure, traders said.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, closed up a slight two cents at 62.93 dollars,
rebounding from earlier lows amid lingering concerns about Iran's
nuclear ambitions.


Bond prices weakened as the yield on the 10-year US Treasury bond
rose to 4.612 percent from 4.587 percent Monday and that on the
30-year bond climbed to 4.809 percent from 4.783 percent. Bond
yields and prices move in opposite directions.

