

An Algerian the British authorities say is a danger to national
security launched an appeal on Tuesday against a move to
extradite him to Algeria.


Mouhoud Sihali was acquitted in London in April 2005 following a
trial over a plot to use the deadly poison ricin, but the Home
Office still considers him to be a threat to national security.


Lawyers representing Sihali said arguments for his expulsion made
before the Special Immigration Appeal Commission (SIAC) basically
summarise those which were rejected by the jury during the trial
in 2005.


"I just want to clear my name," said Sihali, who left his country
in 1997 in order to avoid being drafted into Algeria's armed
forces.


"My entire life is ruined. My name is all over the Internet. I
lost my friends; nobody wants to come to visit me because nobody
wants to become a suspected terrorist," he said.


The appeals procedure is to last until Friday, with a decision
due in about one month.


Despite being acquitted, Sihali was re-arrested during a
heightened climate of security concern after four suicide bombers
set off bombs on three London Underground trains and a bus on
July 7, 2005, killing themselves and 52 commuters.


He was held in jail for four months before SIAC released him on
bail in which he is kept under partial house arrest and allowed
to leave his home for just eight hours a day on an electronic tag
and within a restricted area.


His guests must receive approval from the Home Office and he is
banned from using the Internet or a portable telephone.


Kamel Bourgass, an Algerian said to be a member of the Al-Qaeda
terror network, was sentenced to 17 years in prison at the end of
the trial over the ricin plot.

