

Russian investigators are in London to investigate the
radioactive poisoning death of former Russian agent Alexander
Litvinenko, the Russian embassy said Tuesday.


The three-member delegation headed by Alexander Zvyagintsev,
Russia's deputy prosecutor general, arrived Monday to discuss
"some questions of cooperation," an embassy spokeswoman told AFP,
adding they will leave Thursday.


She said the delegation would meet London's Metropolitan Police,
which is leading the British probe into the events that led up to
Litvinenko's agonising death in a London hospital on November 23.


British detectives are said to have faced a number of
restrictions when they travelled to Moscow to question witnesses
in the case last year.


The Metropolitan Police said would not confirm that the
delegation had arrived.


"An invitation has been extended to Russian investigators to
visit the UK in connection with the investigation into the death
of Alexander Litvinenko," a police spokesman said.


"They were invited following a meeting to discuss a request for
mutual legal assistance between the Russian authorities and the
Metropolitan police service on February 20. The invitation was
accepted," he said without elaborating.


In January, British police submitted a file of evidence on the
Litvinenko case to prosecutors for them to consider whether any
criminal charges should be brought.


Russian businessman Andrei Lugovoi, who met Litvinenko on
November 1 at a central London hotel -- after which the former
agent fell ill -- is alleged to be a key suspect in the case. He
has denied any involvement.


Litvinenko was found to have high levels of the radioactive
isotope polonium 210 in his body when he died. His associates
have accused Russia of poisoning him because of his opposition to
President Vladimir Putin.

