

The father of Australian David Hicks said on Tuesday his son may
have pleaded guilty to a terrorism charge to secure his transfer
from the Guantanamo prison and that he may be innocent.


"As far as I'm concerned this was a way out for David, regardless
of whether he's guilty or innocent. We will never ever know now,"
Terry Hicks said in an interview with Australian Broadcasting
Corp.


Hicks spoke in Washington on his way back to Australia after he
was allowed on Monday to visit his son being held at the US-run
prison in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.


David Hicks, 31, entered a guilty plea on Monday to the charge of
supporting terrorism before a US military tribunal, the first
conviction by the new tribunals created under a law adopted last
year.


"It's not a devastating charge, but it can still hold a long-term
imprisonment," Hicks said.


"I believe David's made the right decision in his own mind," he
said.


The guilty plea is expected to clear the way for his eventual
transfer to Australia, which has an agreement with Washington
that Hicks will be allowed to serve out a sentence in his home
country.


Terry Hicks said he stood unreservedly behind his son, saying:
"I've said whatever David does I will be supporting him."


Hicks was accused of providing "material support to terrorism" by
training with Al-Qaeda and volunteering to fight alongside
Taliban forces during the US-led invasion of Afghanistan in 2001.
He was captured by US-backed Northern Alliance forces and turned
over to the United States, which transferred him to the
Guantanamo camp in 2002.

