

Washington on Tuesday said a vote on Egyptian constitutional
reform that saw low turnout and was criticized by the country's
opposition was a "missed opportunity" for democratic change.


"It is evident that the vast majority of Egyptians chose not to
participate in this referendum," said State Department spokesman
Tom Casey.


"I think that is reflective of the many voices in Egypt that had
criticized the abbreviated process which led up to this
referendum, as well as the criticisms of the amendments
themselves as something of a missed opportunity to advance
reform."


Egyptians voted Monday on amendments pushed through by President
Hosni Mubarak to 34 articles of the constitution which the
opposition has warned will curb basic freedoms.


The controversial changes, defended by the regime as a boost to
democracy and security, were approved by three-quarters of voters
with voter turnout at 27.1 percent, official media quoted the
justice minister as saying.


However, opposition and independent rights groups said turnout
did not reach the 10 percent mark, and some groups reported
irregularities in Monday's ballot.


"We also do take note of the significant discrepancies between
the estimates of voter turnout by the government and both
Egyptian and foreign medias observers," Casey said.


The amendments repeal judicial supervision of ballot boxes that
was credited by the opposition for their gains in recent
elections and allow authorities to arrest suspects, search their
homes, read their mail and tap their phones without a warrant.


They also ban political activity based on religion, a move seen
as a bid to prevent further gains by the main opposition group
the Muslim Brotherhood.

