

European stock markets rebounded slightly on Tuesday, helped by
fresh takeover talk and an upbeat German business sentiment
survey, dealers said.


Meanwhile a vast transatlantic stock market emerged when the New
York Stock Exchange won control of pan-European market operator
Euronext, creating an entity worth 29 billion dollars (21.7
billion euros) linking trading platforms in six cities.


The two markets said in a statement that the NYSE had acquired
91.42 percent of Euronext capital and 92.22 percent of the voting
rights according to a provisional tally of shareholder
acceptances.


Euronext shares jumped 4.33 percent to close at 90.20 euros in
Paris.


In London, the FTSE 100 index of leading shares closed
essentially unchanged at 6,292.60 points however.


Frankfurt's DAX 30 won 0.43 percent to 6,858.34 points, while in
Paris the CAC 40 was up by 0.19 percent at 5,587.06 at the close.


The DJ Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone blue chip shares added
0.28 percent to 4,153.61 points.


The euro stood at 1.3353 dollars.


In New York, the Dow Jones Industrial Average had given up 0.56
percent to 12,399.14 points as European markets closed, while the
Nasdaq Composite was off by 0.64 percent at 2,439.96.


The broad Standard and Poor's 500 index shed 0.63 percent to
1,428.38 points.


In Asia, Tokyo's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares closed 0.90
percent lower at 17,365.05 points -- ending a five-day winning
streak. Hong Kong's key Hang Seng Index lost 0.30 percent to
finish at 19,706.79.


Japanese share prices fell back as investors locked in recent
gains amid jitters over the US housing sector and an upcoming
raft of domestic economic data, dealers said.


In London, clothing retailer Next led advancing FTSE 100 stocks,
winning 3.32 percent to 2,302 pence on talk of an imminent 2,500
pence per share bid approach, dealers said.


Elsewhere, miners rallied on sector consolidation hopes and a
spike in commodity prices. BHP Billiton rose 0.90 percent to
1,119 pence and Rio Tinto climbed 1.37 percent to 2,884 pence.


On Monday Anglo-Swiss mining group Xstrata agreed to buy LionOre
Mining International Ltd, a Canadian nickel and gold miner, for
4.0 billion dollars.


Frankfurt shares meanwhile benefited from news that business
confidence in Germany bounced back in March. Global sportswear
giant Adidas headed the DAX, jumping 3.99 percent to 40.66 euros
on speculation that investor Mike Ashley might try to further
raise his stake in the group to 10 percent, dealers said.


In Paris, shares in the Channel tunnel operator Eurotunnel lost
6.82 percent to 0.41 euros after quotations resumed following a
10-month suspension.


In Amsterdam, the AEX index slipped by 0.12 percent to 508.21
points, the Swiss SMI was off by 0.44 percent at 8,966.29, in
Milan the SP/Mib was flat at 41,337, in Madrid the Ibex-35 added
0.46 percent to 14,536.80 euros and in Brussels the Bel-20 gained
0.53 percent to close at 4,472.22 points.

