

A shorter schedule with fewer top-level events and revenue
sharing with players were unveiled here Tuesday by the WTA Tour,
which plans a major revamping of the series starting in 2009.


The WTA Board of Directors voted Monday to make the major changes
with an eye to easing the workload on players and making them
greater partners in the financial success of tournaments and the
series.


The streamlined schedule beyond the Grand Slam tournaments will
include 20 premier events compared to 26 now with only four
mandatory stops - Indian Wells, California; Miami and new WTA-ATP
events in Madrid and Beijing.


"The schedule of the future will not force on the players a
situation like we have today where they are overtaxed and we have
the levels of injuries and withdrawals that we have," WTA chief
executive Larry Scott said.


"Players deserve a longer off-season and healthier schedule so
that they can avoid injury and fatigue and in return fans deserve
to see more players consistently performing at their best at our
tournaments."


Other top-20 WTA events will be staged in Sydney, Tokyo, Doha,
Dubai, Paris Berlin, Rome, Stuttgart, Eastbourne, Moscow, Los
Angeles, Cincinnati, Stanford, New Haven, Charleston and Canada,
alternating between Montreal and Toronto.


The WTA Tour Championship will shift from November to October,
providing a nine- week off-season instead of seven.


Total prize money will jump 30 percent to 72 million dollars,
with a minimum of four million dollars at the elite four events
where equal money will be paid to men and women.


Top players will have to compete in only 10 events, down from 13,
but will have limited ability to play in events beyond the top 20
tournaments.


Top 10 players will face suspensions and harsher fines for
missing commitment events while increases in prize money will be
linked to commitments and revenue sharing will let players
benefit if event incomes grow.


A new ranking system will be based upon 16 events and linked to
the elite events with players missing a commitment taking a zero-
point factoring into their ranking total.

