

The White House on Tuesday renewed its pledge to veto a measure
being debated in the Senate that seeks to withdraw most US troops
from Iraq within a year.


The Democrat-backed measure links approval of the
administration's multi-million dollar war budget for Iraq and
Afghanistan to start withdrawing combat troops from Iraq within
four months, with a goal of completion by March 31, 2008.


"If this legislation were presented to the president, he would
veto the bill," said a statement from the White House's office of
management and budget.


During the sometimes emotional Senate debate, Republicans have
demanded time for Bush's new troop surge strategy, which is aimed
at quelling raging violence in Iraq, to yield results.


The White House statement echoed that sentiment.


"This bill assumes and forces the failure of the new strategy
even before American commanders in the field are able to fully
implement their plans," it said.


"This legislation would substitute Congressional mandates for the
considered judgment of our military commanders."


The House last week narrowly passed its own 124 billion dollar
version of the spending bill for the wars in Iraq and
Afghanistan, including a firm deadline for getting US troops out
of Iraq by August 31, 2008.


The latest showdown between the Democrat-controlled Congress and
the White House is being fueled by growing public anxiety over
the war, and a Gallup-USA Today poll said 60 percent of Americans
support withdrawing from Iraq by fall 2008.


However, the same poll said 61 percent oppose cutting funding for
the troops in the country, which is in the grip of a violent
insurgency killing hundreds of people a week.

