

British Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett said she was cutting
short her visit to Turkey on Tuesday to report to parliament on
the lack of progress in getting 15 British sailors and marines
detained by Iran released.


Beckett told reporters here after meeting Turkish Prime Minister
Recep Tayyip Erdogan that she had decided to return to London
after speaking on the telephone with her Iranian counterpart
Manouchehr Mottaki.


"I discussed (with Mottaki) what developments there have been,
whether we have made any progress in trying to resolve the
issues. Unfortunately, it appears that may not be the case, she
said.


"So, with great regret, I have decided to cut here my visit to
Turkey and go to report to our parliament."


"In the meantime," Beckett said, "we will do everything we can
through every diplomatic channel available to us, but in case
that this is not possible, I have to report now to our
parliament."


Asked to comment on Prime Minister Tony Blair's remarks on
Tuesday that efforts to secure the release of the 15 would enter
a "different phase" if diplomacy fails, she said: "We are doing
everything we can through diplomatic channels to resolve what is
already a difficult situation which has lasted for too long."


Beckett was expected to fly to Britain on Tuesday evening, a
diplomat told AFP.


She had originally been scheduled to fly to Istanbul for a
meeting Wednesday with Economy Minister Ali Babacan, who is also
Turkey's chief negotiator with the European Unipon.

