

The European Union welcomed on Tuesday the signing of a long
awaited border treaty between Russia and Latvia, hoping it would
improve cooperation with Moscow.


"I congratulate the Latvian and Russian authorities on the
signature of the Border Treaty between their countries," European
Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso said in a statement.


"I am sure it is a decisive step towards the development of
stable relations between both countries and will facilitate the
EU-Russia cooperation in areas of common interest such as border
management and cross border initiatives, transit of goods and
illegal migration," he added.


The treaty deadlock had endured since Latvia regained its
independence from the Soviet Union in 1991, almost five decades
after it was annexed at the end of World War II along with
neighbouring Estonia and Lithuania.


"It is important for the EU to have legal certainty regarding its
Eastern


border and this agreement contributes to this," EU foreign policy
chief Javier Solana said.


"It will provide a stable basis for relations between both
countries and will facilitate EU-Russia cooperation in important
areas such as border management and the fight against illegal
immigration," he added.


Moscow and Riga completed border talks in 1997 and Latvia was
poised to sign but Russia subsequently refused to act, partly
because it was unhappy over Latvia's moves towards the European
Union and NATO, which the Baltic country joined in 2004.


The dispute also hinged on a reference to former Latvian
territory now in Russia.

