

France's almost two million tall people cannot find shoes big
enough or pants long enough, let alone buy a fitted shirt that
hugs the body where it is supposed to.


"Sleeves are always too short, women's waistbands are in the
wrong place and you can never find shoes," Didier Mattiuzzi, who
heads an association of tall people called Altitudes, said at a
media conference Tuesday.


"We are lobbying for help for tall people," said the willow-like
Mattiuzzi, a slim 191 centimetres (almost six foot four) tall.


Tall people invariably had cold feet and cold shoulders in short
beds, he said.


But the situation was even worse in hospitals, where stretchers
as well as hospital lifts also were too short, forcing the sick
to have to sit up to be wheeled to a ward. But operating tables
nowadays had extensions, Mattiuzzi said.


Car roofs were too low, shower cords too short, baths never long
enough and drivers forced to stick a leg each side of a steering
wheel. "Tall people even have to sit on the passenger seat of
scooters", he added.


"Some big companies are taking us seriously now and listening,"
he said.


Patrick Robinet, of the French Textile and Clothing Industry
(IFTH), said the situation for the very tall or very heavy could
improve at year's end when European nations examine how to
streamline sizes on the basis of national sizing campaigns held
in the different countries.


According to the IFTH, which carried out a two-year national
sizing campaign, a total 4.26 percent of French men are over 190
centimetres tall (six-foot three) while 1.28 percent of French
women are more than 180 centimetres (six-foot).


That makes for a potential market of tall people of 1.7 million.


Shoe sizes for such people are four more than the average, said
Robinet, who headed France's sizing campaign. But head sizes do
not vary.


There were no more obese or overweight people among tall people
however than among shorter ones, he said.


The campaign, which sized more than 11,000 people using 3-D
machines that provide 85 different measurements, showed the
French had grown bigger and heavier over 30 years.


In 2006, the average French woman was 162.5 centimetres tall
(five-foot four) for 62.4 kilos (137 pounds) in 2006, and the
average man measured 175.6 centimetres (almost five foot nine)
for 77.5 kilos (170 pounds).


That left the French way behind Croatians, where women on average
are 174 centimetres tall and average men 185, Robinet said.


Of the few nations to have sized up their population, Croatians
were the tallest, he said, followed by The Netherlands (170 cms
and 181.9 cms), Sweden (167.2 cms and 180.9 cms), Belgium (164.6
cms and 176.6 cms) and Britain 163 cms and 177 cms).

