

France football coach Raymond Domenech said he hoped whoever was
responsible for the racist banner in Lithuania on Saturday would
pay but not the country's football federation.


Football has been fighting for years at all levels of the game to
eradicate racism however a huge banner was unveiled in Vilnius by
Lithunanian fans with the African continent painted in French
colours with the slogan: "Welcome to Europe."


Lithuanian legal authorities have opened an inquiry into the
matter following the Euro 2008 qualifier won 1-0 by France thanks
to a Nicola Anelka goal in the second half.


Domenech said at their Marcoussis training base on Tuesday: "We
are fighting against idiots, people who are tarnishing the image
of sport. But we had a good welcome in Lithuania, things went
well in the stadium and there was no whistling during our
national anthem.


"I hope the people who are really guilty, those who unveiled the
banner, are punished, but not the Lithuanian football federation.


"This type of banner is completely scandalous and shameful. It's
good that an inquiry is being held as we can't continue (in
football) with this idiocy."


France defender Lilian Thuram said he was shocked by the banner
but then said similar things had been happening in France and
pointed out how a member of the Socialist Party had been excluded
for commenting on the amount of coloured players in the French
team.


"Unfortunately the times we are going through at this moment in
our history are a little sad and grim," Thuram added. "This
situation does not eat me up but we must revert to a fairer and
calmer situation otherwise we'll end up with a catastrophe. (...)
We must learn to live and respect each other."

