

The dollar was mostly lower Tuesday after US consumer confidence
figures came in below expectations, raising concerns that the
weak housing sector could hurt a key segment of the economy.


The euro edged up to 1.3344 dollars at 2100 GMT from 1.3330 late
in New York on Monday.


The dollar fell to 117.91 yen from 118.09 yen late on Monday.


The US Conference Board said its consumer confidence Index had
fallen to 107.2, down from a revised 111.2 in February. Analysts
had expected a reading of 109.


The weak figure came after a big disappointment a day earlier in
a report on new home sales that raised concerns of further
problems in the housing market that could spread into the broader
economy.


"Recent troubles in the housing market have probably weighed on
consumer confidence in March," said Marie-Pierre Ripert,
economist at IXIS Corporate and Investment Bank.


"Even though the relation between consumer confidence and
consumption is quite loose, the recent deterioration in consumer
confidence is consistent with slowing consumption."


The market will now be waiting to see what happens when US
Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke makes his crucial testimony
to the US Congress Joint Economic Committee on Wednesday.


"The Fed would prefer to keep rates unchanged into the rest of
the year but the accelerating loss of momentum from housing,
construction and manufacturing increases the risks of impacting
the consumer engine of the economy," said Ashraf Laidi at CMC
Markets.


"A hawkish testimony from Bernanke tomorrow coupled with a
rebound in durable goods orders ... could further stabilize the
US currency."


In late New York trade, the dollar stood at 1.2137 Swiss francs
after 1.2154 Monday.


The pound was being traded at 1.9651 dollars after 1.9691.

