

Nine foreigners cannot sue former defense secretary Donald
Rumsfeld for their alleged torture as prisoners of the US "war on
terror," a US judge found Tuesday.


Federal judge Thomas Hogan said Rumsfeld could not be sued in a
US court because the men, held in Iraq and Afghanistan, had no
standing to sue due to a technicality: none has set foot in the
United States nor are they US citizens.


However, Hogan regretted that he could not allow the suit to go
forward under laws that allow persons alleging violations of
their rights to sue the responsible US officials, "no matter how
appealing it might be."


He called the case "lamentable," for its "horrifying torture
allegations."


"Several controlling cases compel the inescapable conclusion that
the plaintiffs in this case are not entitled to such a cause of
action," he said.


The nine men claim to have been wrongly arrested, detained and
tortured by the US army.


They filed suit in 2005 against Rumsfeld and three other high-
ranking military officials, for their supposed responsibility in
ordering the use of violent interrogation methods and for not
having stopped it.


The four officials asked the judge to throw out the case, arguing
the men had neither standing nor rights under the US
constitution.


In a December 8, 2006 hearing, Hogan recognized that if he were
to allow such lawsuits, nothing could stop Osama bin Laden from
bringing suit in the United States to demand reparations from
President George W. Bush for attempted murder.


Bush has admitted that the United States uses "alternative"
interrogation techniques, but denies using torture, despite
prisoner testimony to the contrary.


In November, rights groups filed suit against Rumsfeld in Germany
for his role in alleged torture of prisoners in Iraq and at the
US Navy base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

