

Southern African leaders meet here Wednesday for a two-day
extraordinary summit on economic and political regional woes
spurred by crises in Zimbabwe and the Democratic Republic of
Congo.


The summit of the 14-nation Southern African Development
Community (SADC), hosted by Tanzanian President Jakaya Kikwete,
comes amid a growing global outcry over turmoil in Zimbabwe that
threatens to spill over to its neighbors.


It also takes place after deadly clashes last week in the
Democratic of Congo, between the military and militia loyal to
former vice-president and ex-rebel chief Jean Pierre Bemba, that
claimed between 200-500 lives, according to the German ambassador
in Kinshasa.


While Western nations have sharply condemned Zimbabwean President
Robert Mugabe since opposition leaders were arrested and then
assaulted ahead of a planned anti-government rally earlier this
month, SADC countries have been noticeably more muted in their
response, even though they have most to lose from the fallout.


Tanzanian officials said SADC chiefs will try to convince Mugabe
-- reputed for his stubbornness -- to meet the opposition
Movement for Democratic Change (MCD) leaders in a bid to dissolve
mounting acrimony that threatens the stability of the African
nation.


Mugabe's ruling ZANU-PF party had planned to meet on Wednesday to
discuss proposals to extend his term from 2008 until 2010, but
put off the meeting until Mugabe's return from Dar es Salaam.


Apart from the political unrest, an inflation rate of 1,730
percent and unemployment rate of 80 percent has led around three
million Zimbabweans to emigrate and caused the virtual collapse
of an important market for the region.


Heads of state attending the summit, including from South Africa,
Zambia and Namibia, are expected to seek to put together a rescue
package for Zimbabwe, currently facing acute shortages of
survival basics for its impoverished population.


DRC President Joseph Kabila was expected to be represented by
senior government officials.

