

UN chief Ban Ki-moon is "disturbed" by the extensive violations
of the ceasefire in Sri Lanka and urges the rival sides to resume
negotiations without preconditions, his press office said
Tuesday.


"The secretary general is disturbed by the extensive and
escalating violations of the ceasefire," his office said in a
statement. "He deeply regrets that air raids, military
confrontations and suicide bombings have become a daily
occurrence, prompting massive displacement and suffering for
civilians."


Ban, who is on his way to Saudi Arabia to attend an Arab summit,
appealed to Sri Lankan authorities and Tamil Tiger separatists
"to break this vicious cycle of attack and retaliation, which
only leads to more bloodshed and victims."


He urged the two sides to return to the negotiating table "as
soon as possible, without preconditions."


Earlier Tuesday, the Sri Lankan military bombed suspected Tamil
Tiger rebel targets across the island's embattled northeast, the
second straight day of air strikes.


Tuesday's air attacks by the Sri Lankan military came a day after
Tamil Tigers separatists flew single-engined planes over the main
military air base adjacent to Sri Lanka's only international
airport and dropped bombs, killing three airmen and wounding 16
others.


Also Tuesday, Tamil Tiger rebels drove a tractor-trailer laden
with explosives and bombed an army camp in Sri Lanka's east,
killing eight people.


Sri Lankan security forces have vowed to flush out the Tigers
from the restive eastern region after the military captured the
key Tiger bastion of Vakarai in January after several weeks of
intense battles.

