

French police were forced to evacuate a major Paris subway
station on Tuesday after a row over a ticket at the Gare du Nord
station descended into a riot.


Officers arrested at least nine people and two others were
injured when about 100 youths clashed with police at the station,
where the mainline Eurostar terminal is a major gateway from
Paris to the rest of Europe.


Dozens of rioters attacked windows, vending machines and shops in
the main hall of the subway station for several hours before
police dispersed the crowd late on Tuesday using tear-gas.


The trouble started when a 33-year-old without a ticket jumped
the barriers in the subway station and was stopped by railway
officials, police said. He tried to resist and is accused of
injuring two officials.


Police patrolling the station intervened and arrested him.


However, several young people who witnessed the incident began to
gather in protest against what they perceived to be the use of
excessive force by police. The passenger was evacuated from the
station but the crowd grew.


Some began throwing plastic bottles at police and shouted insults
at Nicolas Sarkozy, the former interior minister. They also
chanted slogans of "police are everywhere, justice is nowhere"
and "down with the state, police and bosses".


Police reinforcements soon arrived and by late Tuesday most of
the crowd had been forced outside or onto the platforms.


In autumn 2005, youths and police clashed every night for three
weeks in France's worst riots for decades.


Sarkozy, who left the government on Monday to run for the
presidency, was accused of provoking the rioters by calling them
"scum".

