

The Football Association's (FA) International Committee on
Tuesday moved to dismiss reports they have summoned under-fire
England boss Steve McClaren to explain the team's poor recent
performances.


Speculation has arisen that figures on the influential 11-man
committee want to get rid of McClaren after results which have
left England struggling to qualify for Euro 2008.


But in a statement issued ahead of Wednesday's European qualifier
against Andorra here, FA International Committee chairman Noel
White and vice-chairman Sir David Richards expressed their
backing for McClaren.


"It is very disappointing to see reports that we have, or will,
'summon' Steve McClaren to explain himself to the International
Committee when we return to England," the pair said in a
statement.


"At a time when we are giving our full support to Steve and the
England team ahead of the game with Andorra, these stories are
very unhelpful."


McClaren will, however, be required to attend a routine debrief
when the International Committee meets next month.


"As the senior members of the committee, we can confirm that
Steve, as normal, will attend the next international committee
meeting as he and every England manager always has," the
statement said.


"There is nothing out of the ordinary with this. It is routine.


"We have been with the squad throughout the past week and it is
obvious to us just how hard Steve and his coaching staff are
working to get results.


"We would once again like to offer our full support to Steve and
all the team."

