

The UN Security Council on Tuesday extended until June 15, 2008
the mandate of a UN panel probing the 2005 assassination of
Lebanese ex-prime minister Rafiq Hariri.


The 15-member body unanimously endorsed a resolution extending
the mandate and declaring the council's "readiness to terminate
the mandate earlier if the commission reports that it has
completed" its inquiry.


The UN inquiry panel, headed by Belgian prosecutor Serge
Brammertz, is investigating the death of Hariri and 22 others in
a massive bomb blast in February 2005 in Beirut. Its current
mandate expires on June 15.


The mandate extension, which had been requested by the Lebanese
government, was backed by Brammertz.


In the UN probe's seventh interim report released March 15,
Brammertz said: "In light of the current and planned
investigative activities, it is unlikely that the commission will
complete its work before its current mandate expires in June
2007.


"The commission therefore welcomes the request for an extension
of its mandate beyond this date," he added.


Tuesday's resolution also welcomed the panel's report which spoke
of "progress in collecting new evidence and in expanding the
forms of evidence collected."


Brammertz said on Wednesday the Hariri slaying was most likely
politically motivated.


Brammertz' predecessor as head of the UN probe, German prosecutor
Detlev Mehlis, had implicated top level Syrian figures and their
Lebanese accomplices in Hariri's assassination, but Syria has
denied involvement.


Lebanon has been in turmoil since the billionaire politician's
murder, which has been widely blamed on Syria. After the killing,
Damascus was forced to end the 29-year military domination of its
small neighbor.

