

Russia's UN envoy on Tuesday called for a Security Council
mission to Belgrade and Pristina before a proposed UN plan for
Kosovo independence is considered.


Vitaly Churkin suggested that the council undertake the mission
"to familiarize itself with the actual state of things, and thus
get all the information required."


The Russian envoy made the surprise suggestion during unscheduled
closed-door consultations on Kosovo, a day after UN mediator for
Kosovo Martti Ahtisaari recommended supervised independence for
the breakaway Serbian province.


Ahtisaari's suggestion was immediately hailed by Kosovo's
president Fatmir Sejdiu but rejected by Belgrade.


Russia, a veto-wielding member of the council, has objected to
the independence proposal, with Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov
calling for more efforts to reach a compromise.


Churkin also said there should be a "comprehensive review of
implementation" of Council Resolution 1244 on Kosovo's future
status.


Security Council 1244, adopted in 1999, authorizes the United
Nations to facilitate a political process to determine Kosovo's
future status.


This resolution "has been and still is the foundation of all
international efforts in Kosovo," Churkin said. "To us it is
logical to see where the international community stands on the
implementation of Resolution of 1244 before we can consider Mr
Ahtisaari's proposal."


Churkin said many of the standards for democratic governance,
protection of minority rights and decentralization, called for
under Resolution 1244 "have not been implemented.


The United Nations has administered the Serbian province since
1999, after a NATO bombing campaign helped to drive out Serb
forces carrying out a brutal crackdown on the majority ethnic
Albanians.


Kosovo Albanians make up 90 percent of the province's population
of two million.

