

Irish Prime Minister Bertie Ahern told parliament on Tuesday he
supported the idea of a national memorial day to remember the
victims of Ireland's devastating famine in the 1840s.


Ahern told lawmakers that a number of aspects of establishing a
national day are being examined by his officials including an
appropriate date and the type of commemoration that would reflect
the "terrible loss of life".


Ahern wants a memorial day that would make a link with the Irish
diaspora and the continuing issues surrounding world hunger and
food security.


"If we can put together a commemorative day that can embrace all
of the issues then we can do a national day. I said I was
supportive of that," Ahern said.


"I am positively disposed towards the establishment of a memorial
day."


He said a commemoration was being organised for May 27 this year
but did not anticipate it would inaugurate an official annual
event.


"Famine is still an issue of world significance and the Irish
famine, in particular, resonates with many people around the
world, particularly those of Irish extraction," he said.


In 1845-49, the so-called Great Famine or Gorta Mor (Great
Hunger) was caused by successive failures of the potato crop --
then a key part of the staple diet for many Irish people.


The loss of the crop as a result of potato blight resulted in the
death from starvation and disease of an estimated 1.5 million
people and forced about a million more to emigrate.


In 1997, British Prime Minister Tony Blair said that Britain, as
the colonial ruler at the time, had "failed" the people of
Ireland over the famine.

