

The US Justice Department released 3,000 pages of documents
Monday related to the firing of eight federal prosecutors that
has led to calls for Attorney General Alberto Gonzales to resign.


Tasia Scolinos, the Justice Department's public affairs director,
described the step as "virtually unprecedented" and said the
department would make officials available for on the record
interviews and congressional hearings.


The move comes as a growing number of lawmakers, including some
of Bush's Republican allies, are calling for Gonzales to lose his
job over the firings of eight US attorneys in 2006, which critics
charge were politically motivated.


"The Attorney General wants the Congress and the American people
to understand both the reasons for the Department's decisions and
its efforts to inform Congress about this matter," Scolinos said.


"The Department did not remove the US Attorneys for improper
reasons, such as to prevent or retaliate for a particular
prosecution in a public corruption matter," she said.


"Because the American public must have confidence that such
considerations did not factor into the decisions here, the
Justice Department is being transparent and forthcoming with the
Congress."


Earlier, Gonzales received tepid support from the White House.


"The president said he's got confidence in Al Gonzales," said
White House spokesman Tony Snow. "We hope he stays."


Asked whether Gonzales would stay on until President George W.
Bush's term ends in January 2009, Snow told reporters: "Well, we
hope so."


Most of the attorneys were fired in December, ostensibly for poor
performance.


But members of Congress soon learned that all eight had received
good performance reviews, a discovery that fueled allegations the
dismissals were politically motivated.


Gonzales has admitted that "mistakes were made," and he held a
conference call with all remaining US attorneys on Friday in a
bid to reassure them.

