

Zimbabwe captain Prosper Utseya has admitted feeling the pressure
of being a young, inexperienced captain at the World Cup.


Utseya, just 21, was speaking to journalists following his side's
six-wicket defeat to West Indies in Group D at Sabina Park.


"It's a big challenge, and a big ask for me as a young player
because I'm still learning the game," he said.


"But I'm trying to get as much help as I can from the senior
players, the coach, and the other captains as well."


Zimbabwe tied their opening match of the competition last
Thursday with Ireland and need a victory over Pakistan in their
final group match on Wednesday if they are to keep alive their
hopes of reaching the next stage.


"We were trying for a win to put us in a better position to reach
the Super Eights, but I thought the guys fought well which was
good, so we will have to get it in our next game," he said.


Though they lost against the West Indies, Zimbabwe's Sean
Williams took the man- of-the-match honours for his undefeated 70
which helped his side reach a respectable 203 for five from their
50 overs.


"The pitch was very good, and the kind of pitch that once you got
in, you stayed in, and you placed a value on your wicket," said
20-year-old Williams.


"The West Indies bowlers hit some very good lines and lengths,
and it was not easy, but they just gave me a little bit too much
width every now and again, and I capitalised on it."


Williams concluded that if his side had been able to score a few
more runs, the finish to the match might have been tighter.


"We lost too many early wickets, and it was kind of tough on the
batsmen coming lower down the order to have a go, and try to get
a larger total," he said.


Williams starred in a fifth-wicket stand of 83 with Brendon
Taylor, who scored 50, and put on 60, unbroken, for the sixth
wicket with Elton Chigumbura to give Zimbabwe a late boost.

