

The dollar extended gains against the yen in Asian trade Tuesday
as a global equity rebound helped to ease market wariness toward
more risky investments, dealers said.


They said the Japanese currency was also held back after the Bank
of Japan, as expected earlier, left its interest rates unchanged.


The dollar firmed to 117.85 yen in Tokyo afternoon trade from
117.59 in New York late Monday.


The euro edged down to 1.3287 dollars from 1.3297 but rose to
156.56 yen from 156.49.


"Investor risk aversion is receding as stock markets are holding
up well," said Masaki Fukui, senior economist in the forex
division of Mizuho Corporate Bank.


"The focus is on equities markets because they are vital
indicators of the degree of risk appetite," he added.


On Wall Street, shares rose almost one percent on Monday, boosted
by several merger and acquisition deals, helping Tokyo shares to
extend their recovery after the recent heavy sell-off.


Investors are slowly recovering their appetite for risk after
global stock markets were roiled by a plunge in Shanghai's stock
market late last month and worries over the health of the US
economy.


The recovery in global share prices has rekindled interest in the
so-called carry trade by speculators taking advantage of cheap
credit in countries such as Japan to raise funds to invest in
other areas with higher returns.


Market participants, however, will be taking a close look at US
housing data this week amid nervousness about bad home loans.


The US central bank meanwhile is widely expected to keep its
interest rates anchored at 5.25 percent on Wednesday but market
participants said they would be scrutinising an accompanying
policy statement.


"The market has already priced in a future rate cut but I don't
think the Fed will make any statement that will increase such
speculation," said Fukui.


The Bank of Japan said Tuesday that it would leave its benchmark
interest rate unchanged at 0.5 percent this month, a decision
that had been widely expected after its February rate hike.


Analysts say that political sensitivities linked to the July
elections in Japan's upper house of parliament mean that the
BoJ's next increase in interest rates is unlikely to come before
the second half of 2007.


The dollar fell to 48.59 Philippine pesos from 48.81 on Monday,
to 9,185 Indonesian rupiah from 9,225 and to 942.55 South Korean
won from 943.35.


It fell to 32.84 Thai baht from 34.72 but rose to 1.5272
Singapore dollars from 1.5254 and to 33.13 Taiwan dollars from
33.12.

