

Mainland flag carrier Air China posted Tuesday an 11.7 percent
rise in 2006 net profit to 2.7 billion yuan (347 million dollars)
as increased passenger traffic offset the impact of higher jet
fuel prices.


Operating revenue grew 17.4 percent to 44.9 billion yuan, while
total expenses rose 22.5 percent to 42.4 billion yuan due to
increases in the price and consumption of jet fuel.


However, the airline said easier oil prices in the second half of
the year brought some relief.


"2006 was a critical year for the company," said company chairman
Li Jiaxiang, highlighting its A-share listing in Shanghai which
had helped raise the funds used for the company to expand its
fleet by 31 aircraft.


Air China said it carried 33.97 million passengers in 2006, up
14.2 percent, giving a passenger load factor, a measure of how
full its flights were, up 1.9 percentage points at 75.9 percent.


During the year, the company introduced 35 new routes and began
international services including flights from Beijing to Ho Chi
Ming city, Delhi, Madrid and Sao Palo.


Speaking at a media briefing, Air China executive director Fan
Cheng said the company plans capital expenditure of 16.91 billion
yuan this year, up from the 15.37 billion yuan spent in 2006,
with 11 billion yuan will be used to buy new aircraft, up nearly
31 percent.


In 2006, 44 percent of its procured jet fuel was hedged against
price fluctuations and this year expects that proportion to rise
to 49 percent.


Looking forward, Li was optimistic.


"Although the high price of jet fuel creates significant cost a
pressure, (China's) economy has maintained its fast pace of
growth and has been the driving force behind our rapid growth,"
he said.


He said he expected the 2008 Olympic Games in Beijing to boost
the airline's business opportunities.

