

The Australian dollar reached a 10-year high against its US
counterpart Tuesday on concerns about the US economy and
increased speculation about another hike in local interest rates,
dealers said.


The Australian currency reached 80.30 US cents in early trade
Tuesday, its highest since December 1996, before easing to 80.00
US cents at 3:00 pm local time (0400 GMT).


ABN AMRO currency strategist Greg Gibbs said hawkish comments on
interest rates from the Reserve Bank of Australia last week had
increased speculation about an interest rate hike.


"The interest rate speculation here since Friday last week has
really hotted up," Gibbs said.


"The other factor is the strength in global equity markets that
began (Monday) in Asia and continued into the US session, and has
encouraged global investors to look at the Aussie more
favourably."


He said concerns about the US economy arising from weak figures
this month in the sub-prime mortgage market had contributed to a
general weakness in the US dollar.


"You've seen weakness in the US dollar ... certainly over recent
days and that's supported (our) currency as well," Gibbs said.


He said the Australian dollar could rise further "but a lot
depends on the stability of global equity markets.


"The performance of the Aussie does depend on the appetite for
high yield currencies so provided the appetite is there for high
yield currencies, the Aussie dollar can continue to trade
higher."


However, Deutsche Bank foreign exchange strategist John Horner
said he did not expect the currency's strong run to continue.


"Partly it reflects the weakness of the US dollar we've seen over
the past few days and the increased chance of an interest-rate
hike here domestically," Horner said.


"I don't think these levels will be sustained in coming weeks;
the commodity price environment and the risk environment will
come under pressure."

