

China said Tuesday that North Korea was ready to shut down its
Yongbyon nuclear facility and accept UN inspectors as part of the
six-nation disarmament process.


"We found that the DPRK is ready to shut down and seal the
facility in Yongbyon and accept the monitoring and supervision of
the IAEA (International Atomic Energy Agency)," foreign ministry
spokesman Liu Jianchao said.


Liu did not give a specific timeframe but he referred to a six-
nation accord signed on February 13 that commits North Korea to
closing Yongbyon and allowing IAEA inspectors in by mid-April.


"All parties are willing to take serious steps to implement their
commitments in the common document of February 13," he said.


Liu reported the latest round of the six-nation talks -- which
involve host China, the two Koreas, the United States, Japan and
Russia -- had made good progress this week.


"All parties believe that reaching such an agreement marks the
start of a new stage of action, and it is a good start for new
progress in the six-party talks," he said.


The talks began in Beijing on Monday on an optimistic note
following an announcement by the US that it had reached a deal
with North Korea to end a financial sanctions dispute that had
held up the six-party process.


The US Treasury announced that roughly 25 million dollars in
North Korean funds frozen in a Macau bank due to accusations of
money laundering and counterfeiting would be released, although
no timeframe was given.


Pyongyang had insisted it would not implement the February deal
until the sanctions dispute was resolved.


Chief North Korean envoy Kim Kye-Gwan reportedly told his fellow
envoys at the talks on Monday that his government would proceed
with the first phase of disarmament once the 25 million dollars
were safely returned.

