

Japanese share prices climbed 1.04 percent in morning trade on
Tuesday as overnight gains on Wall Street and a softer yen
provided a further lift to recovering investor sentiment, dealers
said.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's benchmark Nikkei-225 index of leading
shares rose 176.10 points to 17,185.65 by lunch, extending
Monday's 1.59 percent gain.


The broader TOPIX index of all first section shares advanced
17.41 points or 1.03 percent to 1,711.49.


Gainers outnumbered decliners 1,291 to 296, with 138 stocks flat.


Volume was 916 million shares, up from 883 million on Monday
morning.


On Wall Street, shares rose almost one percent on Monday, boosted
by several merger and acquisition deals, helping Tokyo investors
to extend the recovery after the recent heavy sell-off.


"The market's gains were helped by rallies on the US stock
markets as well as by the weaker yen," said Fumiyuki Nakanishi,
chief strategist at SMBC Friend Securities.


The dollar firmed to 117.73 yen in Tokyo morning trade from
117.59 in New York late Monday.


"Property stocks were also higher, supported by positive
expectations on the outcome of the 2006 land prices survey on
Thursday," Nakanishi said.


An interest rate decision by the Bank of Japan was also imminent
but no one was expecting any move from the central bank so soon
after its February quarter- point interest rate rise to 0.5
percent.


Sanyo Electric slipped two yen or 1.1 percent to 182 after the
chairwoman of the struggling consumer electronics maker resigned
in an apparent rift over how to respond to allegations of
accounting irregularities, dealers said.


Among property companies, Mitsui Fudosan rose 140 yen or 4.3
percent to 3,370, Mitsubishi Estate gained 130 or 3.6 percent to
3,780 and Sumitomo Realty and Development climbed 100 or 2.2
percent to 4,590.


Elsewhere, Fujitsu advanced 13 yen or 1.7 percent to 778,
Mitsubishi Electric was up 13 or 1.1 percent to 1,184 and NEC
Corp rose five yen or 0.8 percent to 617.

