

An oil slick that first soiled Vietnam's central coast two months
ago has spread to the country's far south, hitting fisheries and
aquaculture, officials and state media said Tuesday.


Government officials from the environment, defence and foreign
ministries and the state-run oil company held a meeting Monday to
assess the cause of the pollution and how to deal with it, the
Vietnam News Agency said.


Authorities have not determined whether the oil was discharged by
a passing tanker or leaked from an offshore oil rig in the South
China Sea.


The blobs of oil that first appeared on Vietnam's central coast
in late January, driving tourists off the famed China Beach, have
now blackened beaches as far south as the resort of Vung Tau and
the far-southern Ca Mau peninsula.


Thousands of volunteers have scraped hundreds of tons of oil
mixed with sand off beaches and rocky seashores in recent weeks,
while the slick has killed marine life and damaged coastal shrimp
and clam farms.


"The source of the oil is still unknown, but local fishermen have
reported catching marine products dirtied with oil," said a Tien
Giang province environment department official. "We have sent
teams of youth volunteers to the coastal Go Cong district to
collect the oil."


The Vietnam News Agency said the National Search and Rescue
Committee oversaw Monday's meeting, which agreed to send an
expert team to Vung Tau to take samples and compare them with
those taken elsewhere along the coast.

