

North Korea's under-17 football squad arrived Tuesday in South
Korea for a month-long training session, in another sign of
warming relations on the divided peninsula.


Pro-unification activists waved a "One Korea" flag and shouted
"Glad to meet you!" as the 23 players and nine coaches left the
airport in the southern resort island of Jeju under tight police
guard, Yonhap news agency reported.


It was the first visit by a North Korean sports team to the South
since a squad took part in an East Asian regional football
competition in August 2005.


The training stint "will bear good results for the unification of
the two Koreas in the end," one activist said.


The North Koreans, who arrived from a training session in the
Chinese city of Kunming, will play friendly matches against
university and high school teams from March 24 to 27 before
meeting the South Korean under-17 team on March 30.


They then move to the town of Gwangyang on the south of the
peninsula and to Suwon just south of Seoul before wrapping up
their training in the capital.


North-South relations cooled after the North's missile tests last
July and were further soured by Pyongyang's first nuclear test in
October.


But the two sides resumed high-level talks early this month, with
Seoul agreeing in principle to resume crucial food aid.


The two sides have made joint sports appearances despite frosty
political ties, marching together under a "one Korea" flag --
showing the peninsula in blue on a white background -- at the
Asian Games opening ceremony in December.


The North Koreans are preparing for the FIFA U-17 World Cup which
South Korea will host this summer.


They became favorites after capturing the Asian Football
Confederation's Youth Championship with a 5-3 penalty shootout
win over Japan last year.


Eight cities will host the U-17 World Cup, in which 23 teams will
take part, from August 18 to September 9.

