

Canadians Marie-France Dubreuil and Patrice Lauzon took the lead
in the ice dancing after the opening routine at the world figure
skating championships here Tuesday.


In the compulsory dance to the rhumba they collected 38.96 points
to upstage defending champions Albena Denkova and Maxim Staviski
of Bulgaria who beat them into second spot at the 2006 worlds and
the Grand Prix final this season.


The Bulgarians scored 37.42 with Russia's Oksana Domnina and
Maxim Shabalin third with 37.29 points.


European champions Isabelle Delobel and Olivier Schoenfelder of
France trailed in fourth spot with 37.20.


The ice dancing title will be decided after the free skate event
on Friday, with the original dance programme to be held on
Thursday.


"We are the world champions of the rhumba!," quipped Dubreuil,
32.


"Every little victory is important. Every point counts."


But Lauzon, 31, was cautious although they have already won the
Grand Prix events Skate Canada and NHK Trophy in Japan this
season.


"No one will remember the victory at the compulsory dance. Our
goal is the last day," he said.


It was the last compulsory dance for the Bulgarians who will
retire at the end of this season.


"It's a relief not to have to do the compulsory anymore," said 32
-year-old Denkova, who paired with Staviski, three years her
junior, to win Skate America and Trophee Eric Bompard in Paris
this season. "We just feel happy."


Staviski said there was "no special pressure" going out as
defending champions.


"We enjoy skating here. The audience is good. They received us
warmly," he said after their performance in front of a half-full
10,000-seat Tokyo Metropolitan Gymnasium.

