

Grieving relatives of an Afghan driver beheaded by the Taliban
accused their government Tuesday of not caring about his fate
after an Italian reporter captured with him was freed.


Some 200 angry family members protested outside an Italian-run
hospital in Lashkar Gah, southern Afghanistan, where Daniele
Mastrogiacomo was recovering after his release, apparently in
return for five Taliban prisoners.


Mastrogiacomo, who was captured March 4 along with his Afghan
driver and a translator, was freed late Monday and admitted to
the hospital in Lashkar Gah, capital of volatile Helmand
province.


He has told media that the driver, Sayed Agha, was decapitated in
front of him.


Taliban commander Mullah Dadullah said in a recorded message to
the Pajhwok Afghan News agency that he had freed the Italian in
exchange for five of his men.


The government, including the office of President Hamid Karzai,
would not confirm the deal.


"Why would the government release five criminals for an infidel
foreigner and not for a poor Afghan?" demanded Khan Jan, an uncle
of the slain driver.


Another uncle, Delbar Jan, told AFP that "Karzai promised to, and
did, help release a foreigner. But he never mentioned about his
own Afghans."


"The government is giving sacrifice for foreigners but not for an
Afghan," he said. "How ridiculous."


The fate of the interpreter, Ajmal Naqshbandi, was not clear
Tuesday.


A spokesman for Dadullah told Pajhwok in an earlier message that
the driver was killed because he was "a spy."


"We want to know what happened to our brother," one of Agha's
cousins said, asking to remain anonymous. The family wants his
body, "if he is dead."


"He was a poor man and had six kids. Who is going to look after
them?"

