

Taiwan on Tuesday cleared an application by Taiwan Semiconductor
Manufacturing Co (TSMC), the world's top contract chip maker, to
upgrade the sensitive technology used at its plant in China.


In a statement, the Investment Commission said it has approved a
TSMC application to use more advanced 0.18 micron technology in
place of the current 0.25 micron in its eight-inch (200
millimetre) wafer plant in Shanghai.


In 2004, TSMC became the first Taiwan company authorised by the
government to produce eight-inch wafers in China but it had been
limited to use 0.25 micron technology.


The government has kept close control over mainland-bound high-
tech investment for fears that the island could be held hostage
economically by China should military conflict break out between
the two rivals.


Taiwan and China, spit in 1949 at the end of a civil war, are
still technically at war despite a resumption of civil contacts
in 1987.


"The approval was made based on consideration of TSMC's needs for
production," Chang Ming-pin, vice executive secretary of the
commission, told AFP.


The space between transistors on a chip are measured in microns,
equal to one millionth of a metre. The smaller the space, the
more transistors can be packed onto a chip, increasing its
performance.


"We welcome the government move," TSMC spokesman JH Tzeng said.
"We will proceed with preparatory work to facilitate the upgrade
to 0.18 micron as soon as possible."


In late 2006, the government gave the greenlight to two other
local chipmakers, ProMOS Technologies Inc and Powerchip
Semiconductor Corp, to build one eight- inch wafer plant each in
China using 0.25 micron technology.


Chang said ProMOS had filed an application for the introduction
of 0.18 micron in its plant in Chongqing of southeast China which
is scheduled to begin operations in the first quarter of 2008.

