

African Union peacekeepers on Tuesday reinforced security around
the presidential palace, Villa Somalia, as AU security chief Said
Djinnit arrived for a one-day visit to volatile Mogadishu.


Djinnit came to meet Somali leaders and asssess progress in the
AU mission, after a night of fierce artillery duels killed at
least three near the port where Ugandan AU troops and hardware
were finishing their deployment.


"We have reinforced the security of the presidency and that goes
well with our mandate of protecting the transitional federal
institutions," Captain Paddy Ankunda, the spokesman for the
Ugandan troops, told AFP.


Military hardware and the final deployment of Uganda's AU troops
docked Monday at Mogadishu port, also the scene of heavy shelling
and weaponsfire.


Ankunda said Uganda had finished deploying its 1,500 troops, a
vanguard of a total of around 8,000 AU forces planned for the
mission.


The insurgents have vowed to attack the peacekeepers and have
already targetted the Ugandans since their arrival on March 6.
Two peacekeepers have been injured and flown back to Kampala.


"We will not move an inch and our operations will go as
scheduled," Ankunda told AFP.


Some 40,000 civilians fled violence in Mogadishu in February
alone, according to a UN report, and witnesses said hundreds more
were fleeing Tuesday, a day after artillery duels between
government troops and insurgents killed three people, including
two children, and wounding 12 others.


Dozens of people have died since January when joint Somali-
Ethiopian forces ousted an Islamist movement from south and
central Somalia, including the capital, but Islamist insurgents
and allied factions have responded with deadly guerrilla warfare.

