

Australian share prices closed 0.4 percent higher Tuesday on the
back of a strong positive lead from Wall Street and domestic
merger and acquisition activity in the banks, dealers said.


They said the Asian markets picked up from where they left off
Monday, extending gains in what appeared to be a return of
confidence after two bouts of heavy selling in the past three
weeks.


At the same time, there was a note of caution ahead of the US
Federal Reserve meeting Tuesday and Wednesday, with investors
wanting to see what the Fed says about the housing market after
news of growing mortgage problems.


The benchmark SP/ASX 200 added 23.2 points at 5,882.9 while the
broader All Ordinaries index rose 22.4 points to 5,861.7.


Turnover was 1.53 billion shares worth 5.05 billion dollars (4.04
billion US), with 642 stocks up, 531 down and 374 unchanged.


Reynolds and Co. private client advisor Michael Heffernan said a
strong US lead helped the local market to a strong start that
faded as the session wore on.


"It appeared to go into a holding pattern ahead of the Fed's
meeting in the US and the decision on interest rates there,"
Heffernan said.


Heffernan said stronger base metal prices boosted mining majors
BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto while the banks were boosted by Bank
of Queensland's 2.5 billion dollar bid for fellow regional bank,
Bendigo Bank.


"The Bank of Queensland proposal makes sense since a merger with
Bendigo will extend its footprint ... I don't see anyone else
coming in at this point," he said.


Bendigo Bank climbed 0.10 dollar to 7.15 dollars while Bank of
Queensland rose 0.26 to 16.85


Among the major banks, National Australia Bank advanced 0.27 to
40.13, Commonwealth Bank gained 0.07 to 49.51, ANZ climbed 0.16
to 29.02 and Westpac was up 0.28 at 25.73.


In resources, BHP Billiton rose 0.33 to 28.68 and Rio Tinto
advanced 1.05 to 75.55.


Telecoms giant Telstra added 0.05 to 4.34 while Optus-
ownerSingTel retreated 0.03 to 3.60.

