

Philippine Muslim rebel leader Nur Misuari was allowed out of
detention Tuesday to file his candidacy for governor of his
southern island stronghold.


Escorted by heavily armed police, Misuari took a commercial
flight to Jolo, part of the Sulu province, where American troops
are assisting Filipino forces against Muslim militants linked to
the Al Qaeda.


"I am just filing my candidacy for governor of Sulu," said
Misuari before boarding a plane in Manila. "Victory is already a
foregone conclusion."


Misuari is chairman of the Moro National Liberation Front (MNLF),
a Muslim former separatist group that signed a peace pact with
Manila in 1996.


Under the deal, Misuari won governorship of a Muslim autonomous
area, but he later lost the government's support amid allegations
of massive corruption in the regional government.


In 2001, he and his supporters attacked government targets on
Jolo and Zamboanga city, killing more than 100 people.


MNLF gunmen then held hostage dozens of school children whom they
used as human shields to stop a government assault.


The rebels later freed the hostages in exchange for safe passage
back to Jolo, where they now remain as a major armed force.


Shortly after the rebellion, Misuari fled to Malaysia but was
arrested and repatriated. He is under house arrest while being
tried for rebellion.


A Manila court granted his request to run for governor of Sulu in
the May 14 polls on the basis that he has not yet been convicted.


President Gloria Arroyo's adviser on the peace process, Jesus
Dureza, welcomed Misuari's move to join mainstream politics.


"I positively view Nur's bid to serve through the democratic
electoral process. I wish him well in his candidacy," Dureza told
AFP.


Misuari and his escorts were to return to Manila later Tuesday.
It is not clear how he intends to campaign, but Misuari remains
popular in Islamic circles in the south.

