

The United States and South Korea grappled Monday with sensitive
bilateral trade issues as they entered the final lap of talks to
flesh out a free trade deal ahead of an end-March deadline.


Chief US negotiator Wendy Cutler and her South Korean counterpart
Kim Jong-hoon met in Washington to tackle outstanding issues
linked to critical sectors such as automobiles, agriculture,
pharmaceuticals and textiles.


Top agriculture officials met in Seoul simultaneously to focus on
specific farm issues.


"As we near the end, I think we are zooming on the most sensitive
and most difficult issues," Stephen Norton, spokesman for the US
Trade Representative, told AFP.


"Between now and the end of the month, it's going to be a lot of
hard work and good-faith negotiating," he said as both sides
strived to narrow their differences.


Kim said that significant progress had been made since the free
trade talks began 10 months ago and "I'll make my utmost efforts
to narrow remaining differences as much as possible this week."


"If some issues are still hanging in the balance this week, both
sides will try to tackle those issues next week in Seoul," South
Korea's Yonhap news agency quoted him as saying.


The Seoul talks, scheduled to start on March 26, will involve
South Korean Trade Minister Kim Hyun-Jong and US Deputy Trade
Representative Karen Bhatia, according to Lee Hye-Min, South
Korea's deputy chief negotiator, as quoted by Yonhap.


If both sides show flexibility, "I'm confident they will reach a
deal in time," Lee said.


If sealed, the US-South Korea free trade agreement would be the
biggest such pact since the 1993 North American Free Trade
Agreement.


Bush's powers to fast-track trade agreements expire in June. That
gives US negotiators up to March 31 to present a deal for a
mandatory 90-day congressional review that would then be subject
to just an outright yes-or-no vote in Congress without
amendments.


The United States and South Korea have closed three chapters of
the prospective free trade deal -- on customs, competition and
government procurement.


Seven other chapters -- general services, financial services,
market access, transparency, telecommunications, e-commerce and
standards -- remain on the table.


Both parties have expressed confidence they could meet the
deadline.


"We've come a long way, we still have a way to go but I firmly
believe we can get there by the end of March," Cutler said on
Friday.


US-South Korea goods bilateral trade reached 74 billion dollars
in 2006, with services trade accounting for another 14 billion
dollars.


Both sides believe that an FTA "will really bring to each country
economic, commercial, political, strategic benefits as well as to
together strengthen  the ties between two longstanding allies and
add strong economic components to our relationship," Cutler said.

