

The European Union celebrates Sunday the 50th anniversary of the
Treaty of Rome, which laid the foundations for today's EU, with
concerts, exhibitions and sporting events.


To mark the event, as well as try to help ease the EU out of the
crisis over its failed constitution, the bloc's leaders will
publish a "Berlin Declaration" to praise past achievements and
commit to the future.


Here are some key dates in the history of the European Union.


April 1951: Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg and the
Netherlands establish the European Coal and Steel Community
(ECSC), creating the foundation for a common market in the coal
and steel industry.


March 1957: ECSC members sign the Treaty of Rome establishing the
European Economic Community (EEC), with the aim of gradually
forming a common agricultural and industrial market.


January 1973: Britain, Denmark and Ireland become members of the
EEC.


March 1979: European Monetary System enters into force, a first
step towards a single European currency.


January 1981: Greece becomes 10th member of the EEC.


January 1986: Spain and Portugal join.


April 1987: Turkey formally applies to become a member.


November 1993: The Treaty of Maastricht comes into force,
transforming the EEC into the European Union.


January 1995: Austria, Finland and Sweden join the EU.


March 1995: Schengen agreement removing passport checks on EU
borders comes into force. Britain and Ireland opt out.


January 1999: Launch of the single European currency, the euro.


December 2000: Nice Treaty agreed enshrining new rules for an
enlarged EU, and a timeframe for new member states to join.


January 2002: Euro notes and coins start to circulate in 12 EU
countries.


December 2002: EU issues formal invitations to 10 mostly ex-
communist candidates to join on May 1, 2004.


June 2003: A convention chaired by former French president Valery
Giscard d'Estaing agrees a draft of a first-ever constitution for
the expanding bloc.


May 1, 2004: Ten new countries join the EU in the bloc's biggest-
ever expansion: Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia, Poland, the Czech
Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Slovenia, Malta and Cyprus.


June 2004: EU leaders finally agree the new constitution, after a
six-month delay due to wrangling over the key issue of power-
sharing.


October 2004: The constitution is signed amid fanfare in Rome,
recalling the 1957 treaty which started the whole process. It
must be ratified over the following two years.


December 2004: EU leaders agree to start accession talks with
Turkey in October 2005, so long as certain conditions are
fulfilled.


May 29, 2005: France votes against the constitution.


June 1, 2005: Dutch voters in turn reject the charter.


June 16, 2005: EU leaders postpone the November 2006 deadline for
the constitution to be ratified, leaving the text in political
limbo.


January 1, 2006: Bulgaria and Romania join the EU, bringing its
ranks to 27 members, while Slovenia becomes the 13th member of
the euro currency group.

