

Japan aims to play a leading role in the post-Kyoto battle on
global warming and will seek the full engagement of the United
States and China, the world's top two polluters, officials said
Tuesday.


Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will ask his cabinet ministers to
develop a package of proposals to present to next year's Group of
Eight summit of world leaders which Japan will host, they said.


Japanese government ministers will "discuss proposals on a new
framework that will ensure participation by the United States and
China, the world's largest greenhouse-gas emitters," a foreign
ministry official said.


The 168 countries that have ratified the Kyoto Protocol on
cutting greenhouse gases will open talks in 2008 over the next
round of pledges for tackling global warming, after the UN pact's
present commitment period expires.


Experts say Kyoto's so-called second commitment period must
deliver massive reductions in emissions to avoid potentially
crippling damage to the world's climate system by fossil-fuel
gases.


Under Kyoto's present format, only 35 industrialised nations that
have signed and ratified the pact are required to make targeted
cuts in emissions of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide
(CO2).


But China, India and other high-population developing countries
are fast becoming big emitters of CO2 in their own right as they
voraciously burn oil, gas and coal to power their economies.


Under President George W. Bush, the United States has refused to
ratify and abide by the Kyoto Protocol.


Negotiations on the Kyoto Protocol's future will take place on
the Indonesian island of Bali from December 3-14.

