

A majority of Britons think the US-led invasion of Iraq in 2003
was a mistake which has Britain less safe, according to a poll
published Tuesday.


Some 55 percent feel Britain is less safe now, with only five
percent feeling safer since the US-led war to oust Saddam
Hussein, according to the survey by the BBC and polling institute
ICM.


Overall 29 percent backed the decision to go to war, with 60
percent saying it was a mistake.


"Four years on from the war, most people in the country have now
come tothe view that the United States and Britain were wrong to
take military action against Iraq in 2003," said Nick Sparrow of
ICM.


Prime Minister Tony Blair was US President George W. Bush's main
supporter in the 2003 invasion of Iraq, despite public protests
at the time and opposition to the war from key European partners
led by France and Germany.


Blair last week refused again to apologize for the Iraq war,
which threatens to cloud his legacy as he prepares to leave
office in the coming months after 10 years in power.


The ICM poll found that more than half of those asked said they
would not trust the British government if it claimed military
action was needed somewhere because a country posed a threat to
national security.


Fifty-one percent said they would not trust the government, with
32 percent saying they would believe such a claim.


But there would be support for using British troops in overseas
missions such as disaster relief or to stop genocide, "even if
the countries involved do not pose a direct threat to Britain's
national security," he added.


Some 57 percent were in support of this kind of action, while 24
percent opposed it, the poll indicated.

