

Israel on Tuesday welcomed a decision by the United States and
the European Union to withhold recognition of a Palestinian unity
cabinet led by the radical Islamist Hamas movement.


"We welcome the fact that the international community is sticking
to its positions and keeping its demands towards the new
Palestinian government that has to respect the three conditions
of the Quartet," government spokeswoman Miri Eisin told AFP.


The Middle East Quartet -- the European Union, Russia, the United
Nations and the United States -- slapped an aid and diplomatic
embargo on the Palestinians a year ago when Hamas, considered a
terror group by the West, formed a cabinet after a shock election
win.


On Monday the United States and the EU said they would not
recognise the new cabinet -- which unites Hamas with Western-
backed moderates -- until it renounces violence and agrees to
recognise Israel's right to exist.


The new coalition's political programme has stopped short of
agreeing to the West's conditions.


The year-long embargo has wreaked havoc on the Palestinian
economy and president Mahmud Abbas, whose secular Fatah party is
the junior member in the new coalition, has called on the West to
lift the boycott.


But the United States and the EU declined to do so at talks
between US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and her Quartet
counterparts in Washington on Monday.


"I have to say that this government does not comply fully with
the (Quartet) principles," EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana
said.


The Quartet was expected to soon release a statement on the new
Palestinian government, a US state department spokesman said.

