

China's minister of police has called for a crackdown on "hostile
forces" including religious sects and separatists ahead of the
2008 Beijing Olympics, state press said Tuesday.


Zhou Yongkang urged police to uphold the goals of President Hu
Jintao in "creating a harmonious society," while underscoring the
need to maintain social stability, the China Police Daily
reported.


He warned of the need to tackle "hostile forces" that threatened
to disrupt the Games and the the ruling party's five-yearly
congress later this year.


"We must make efforts to advance a harmonious society and create
a good social environment for successfully holding the 17th
Communist Party Congress and the Beijing Olympic Games," the
paper quoted Zhou as saying.


"We must firmly grasp the changes developing in the international
and domestic situation as well as the new demands raised by our
work on maintaining social stability" ahead of the Olympics.


"We must strike hard at hostile forces both in and outside the
nation, ethnic separatism, religious extremism and violent
terrorism as well as evil cults like the 'Falungong' who carry
out destabilising activities," he said.


The Chinese goverment outlawed the Falungong spiritual movement
in 1999, declaring the group a threat to social stability.


Zhou was speaking at a meeting of top police officials on Monday
following the close of the annual session of China's parliament
on Friday last week.


He also urged police to better protect the legal rights and
interests of ordinary Chinese, an apparent reference to simmering
social dissatisfaction over a widening gap between rich and poor
following over 20 years of booming economic growth.


"Police bureaus at all levels must clearly recognise the long-
term and arduous nature of resolving the problems of the people,"
Zhou said.


"We must clearly recognise the differences that exist between the
aspirations of the party and those of the people and the areas in
which we are inadequate."

