

Greece on Tuesday put out a 800,000-euro (one-million-dollar)
bounty on an elusive far-left extremist group that launched a
rocket attack against the US embassy in Athens in January.


"The reward will be given to whoever gives information leading to
the dismantling of the Revolutionary Struggle organisation," the
Greek public order ministry said in a statement.


Greece's most powerful extremist outfit currently in operation,
Revolutionary Struggle on January 12 fired an anti-tank missile
against the US embassy building, causing minor damage but no
injuries.


The strike came in response to the US-led "criminal" war on
terror in Iraq, Afghanistan and Somalia, the group said in a
statement.


A probe conducted by Greek police with the assistance of US
experts has not resulted in any arrests.


The US embassy last month denied being displeased with Greece on
the course of the investigation.


"Recent press reports that the ambassador or any US embassy
official has criticized the minister of public order or the
ministry ... are untrue, " the embassy said in a statement.


"The US embassy again expresses its satisfaction with the
professional response of Greek law enforcement agencies to the
rocket-propelled grenade attack," it said.


The government has been criticised by Greek media and the
opposition for allegedly allowing the country's anti-terror
vigilance to wane after the break- up of Greece's last major
extremist outfit, November 17, in 2002.


Appearing in 2003, Revolutionary Struggle has been responsible
for seven incidents in Athens which left three people slightly
injured.

