

South Korea's Hynix Semiconductor, the world's second largest
memory chipmaker, has forged an alliance with Japanese
electronics giant Toshiba, the two companies said Tuesday.


Toshiba and Hynix have signed "patent cross licensing and product
supply agreements covering semiconductor technology," they said
in a joint statement.


They said the agreement would also settle "all pending patent-
related litigation" between the two in the United States and
Japan.


Hynix said the alliance would help the two companies end their
rivalry after the two became embroiled in patent suits against
each other.


"We believe the agreements will become a good foundation for our
two companies to build a mutually beneficial business
relationship in the future," Hynix vice president Kwon Oh-Chul
said in the statement.


Shozo Saito, executive vice president of Toshiba's semiconductor
division, said: "With litigation behind us, and through these
agreements, we can now strengthen our respective businesses."


Hynix has been under pressure from trade barriers erected by
Japan, the United States and the European Union on its chip
exports.


Last year Japan imposed tariffs of 27.2 percent on chips produced
by Hynix for five years, accusing the Korean company of selling
them at below cost.


The United States and European Union imposed duties on Hynix
products in 2004 after claiming a company bailout earlier was
arranged with the help of government controlled banks and so
constituted payment of subsidies.


South Korean creditors deny the government played any role in
arranging the rescue package, insisting it was a commercially-
based decision involving some independent foreign banks.

