

North Korea refused to attend a session of the six-party talks on
its nuclear programmes on Tuesday afternoon because 25 million
dollars in frozen funds had not been returned, diplomats said.


"According to the chairman, China, North Korea says they will not
come to the gathering until they confirm the transfer of the
money," Japan's top nuclear negotiator, Kenichiro Sasae, told
journalists here.


"In conclusion, there was no progress today (Tuesday)."


Chinese foreign ministry officials also confirmed that the
plenary session scheduled for Tuesday afternoon had been
postponed, but they refused to give the reasons.


Six-nation talks began in Beijing on Monday on an optimistic note
following a US announcement that it had reached a deal with North
Korea to end their financial sanctions dispute that had held up
the disarmament process.


The US Treasury announced that about 25 million dollars in North
Korean funds frozen in a Macau bank due to accusations of money
laundering and counterfeiting would be released, however no
timeframe was given.


Although North Korea welcomed the US decision, it had made clear
it wanted the money safely back in its hands before going any
further in the six-party process, according to a pro-Pyongyang
newspaper in Japan.


"The DPRK (North Korea) insists that the issue will be fully
resolved only when the release of frozen funds is confirmed," the
Chosun Sinbo said on its website on Tuesday.


Authorities in Macau, where the money has been frozen since 2005,
said on Monday they would release the money to a North Korean
bank account in Beijing, but did not say when.


Chief US envoy Christopher Hill said on Monday he hoped the money
would be transferred as soon as possible.

