

Six people have been charged over the beating to death of a
Chinese reporter who was investigating an illegal coal mine in a
case that sparked nationwide outrage, an official said Tuesday.


"Six people have been charged for the crime. This investigation
is over," a media relations official with the Datong city
government in the northern province of Shanxi, who gave only his
surname Zheng, told AFP.


However, the state-run Xinhua news agency later reported that
authorities also were considering charges against a seventh man
who remained at large.


Lan Chengzhang, a reporter with the Beijing-based China Trade
News, died a day after being beaten on January 10 by a group of
thugs for investigating an illegal coal mine in Shanxi, police
said previously.


The murder drew national attention, with President Hu Jintao
ordering a full investigation in late January.


The case has been complicated by allegations that Lan and his
colleague, Cheng Hanwen, who were not officially accredited
journalists, had been trying to extort money from mine owner Hou
Zhenrun in exchange for their silence.


The Beijing Morning Post said those charged included Hou, whom
police have said organised the gang of thugs to carry out the
attacks on Lan and Cheng.


However neither the Datong city official nor state media reports
specified what charges had been levelled against the six
defendants.


Lan died of head injuries sustained in the attack while Cheng
survived but suffered a broken arm and other injuries.


China has thousands of illegal mines operating under poor safety
conditions, which run under the protection of corrupt local
government officials.


The country's coal mining industry is considered the most
dangerous in the world with 4,746 people dying last year in 2,845
accidents, according to official figures -- an average of 13
deaths a day.


Labor groups say the actual figure is far higher, with many
deadly accidents covered up by mine owners.

