

A museum in mainly Muslim Malaysia is defying calls for it to
stop a popular exhibition featuring ghosts and other supernatural
beings, arguing it has educational value, a report said Tuesday.


Western Negri Sembilan state's museum has attracted about 20,000
visitors to view the ghost and genie exhibition since its launch
on March 10, the New Straits Times reported.


However, some Muslim authorities have criticised previous
exhibitions on ghosts and spirits as un-Islamic, and the latest
effort by the Negri Sembilan museum has attracted calls from a
prominent mufti and a minister for it to be shut down.


But museum curator Shamsuddin Ahmad said closing the exhibit
would defeat its purpose.


"When we planned this exhibition, one of the main objectives was
to educate the public, which is why, besides exhibiting the
artifacts, we also plan a series of dialogues and talks about the
supernatural," Shamsuddin was quoted as saying.


"If we stop now, we will not fulfil the objective of the
exhibition," he said.


Malaysia's Culture and Arts Minister, Rais Yatim, criticised the
Negri Sembilan government at the weekend for allowing the
exhibition, arguing it did not benefit the community.


A prominent mufti from northern Perlis state also reportedly said
ghost exhibitions, including the latest one, should be stopped,
since they encouraged Malaysians to live in a fantasy world.


Malaysians have a lingering fascination with all things
supernatural, despite the criticisms.


A belief in spirits and black magic used to be common in rural
Malaysia, bred on myths and superstitions. It was used to gain
power and wealth, and to harm enemies.


The practice reached its height during the sultanate days of the
16th century, but faded away as the influence of Islam grew in
this multicultural nation.

