

Government troops destroyed four boats believed to be carrying
Tamil Tiger guerrillas in northern Sri Lanka, the defence
ministry said Tuesday, as one civilian was shot dead in other
violence.


Troops attacked four suspected Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam
(LTTE) boats off the Jaffna peninsula around midnight Monday, the
ministry said.


"These four LTTE boats were destroyed with artillery attacks by
the troops," the ministry said in a statement. It did not say
whether there were casualties.


However, the ministry said a suspected Tiger rebel was shot dead
on Monday night near the military's defence line in the Jaffna
peninsula.


In the northern mainland, a civilian was shot dead Tuesday by
unidentified gunmen in Vavuniya, local police said, adding that
an investigation was underway.


More than 100 people have been killed in the past three months in
Vavuniya, the de facto border town at the entrance to the rebel-
held northern Wanni region, official figures showed.


The latest skirmishes came after the navy said it had sunk two
cargo vessels believed to be smuggling weapons and explosives for
Tigers on Sunday. There was no immediate word from the Tamil
Tigers about the ships.


Clashes between suspected Tamil Tiger ships and the Sri Lankan
navy have increased in recent months amid heavy fighting in the
island's northern and eastern regions.


More than 4,000 people have been killed in a new wave of fighting
since December 2005 between government troops and rebels fighting
for an independent homeland for the Tamil minority.


The fighting comes despite a truce that has been in place, at
least on paper, since February 2002.

