

Myanmar has slaughtered more than 1,000 chickens after
discovering another outbreak of the deadly H5N1 strain of bird
flu in Yangon, a livestock department official said Tuesday.


The discovery of avian influenza on a chicken farm in the north
of military-run Myanmar's biggest city is the fifth such outbreak
this year, leaving officials worried about the rapid spread of
the virus.


"More than 1,000 chickens were killed from Saturday to Monday,
and we suspect the H5N1 virus is spreading," a senior official of
the Livestock Breeding and Veterinary Department said.


"The farm has about 20,000 chickens... it's a big farm," the
official told AFP on the condition of anonymity as he did not
have official permission to speak to the media.


The outbreak occurred in Hmawbi township, about 20 miles (35
kilometres) north of the centre of Yangon. Myanmar previously
confirmed four outbreaks of the H5N1 virus this month in suburbs
of the city.


Authorities have not revealed the total number of birds killed
since this year's first outbreak.


A total of 168 people worldwide have died of bird flu since 2003,
mostly in Asia, World Health Organisation figures show.


No human cases have been found in Myanmar, but health ministry
officials said they were monitoring those who may have been
exposed.


"About 960 people who had contact with fowls, as well as their
family members around the outbreak areas, are still under
surveillance," Kyaw Nyit Sein, deputy director general of health
ministry, told AFP on Tuesday.


"There is no positive case yet among them."


Myanmar had declared itself bird-flu free in September after
months without any new cases of the disease following an outbreak
around the central city of Mandalay in March 2006.


The UN's agricultural agency has praised Myanmar's normally
secretive government for being "quick and effective" in its
response to new outbreaks, and is providing 1.4 million dollars
in assistance to help fight the disease.

