

Sobs erupted here Tuesday as miners' families watched a stream of
ambulances deliver their grim load of black plastic body bags to
the morgue in this remote Siberian mining town, scene of Russia's
deadliest mine accident.


Four military-style camouflage tents were set up outside the
morgue. Inside, counsellors tried to help families and friends
cope with the sudden loss of so many local men in a region whose
livelihood depends on the coal industry.


Several kilometers away, at a makeshift counselling center set up
near the Yubileinaya shaft at another mine, coal workers and
distraught relatives and friends shuffled in a daze.


"I lost 43 men in my team," one coal miner wearing a scuffed
orange hard hat commented just after completing his shift for the
day, shaking his head in disbelief.


"I'm the only one left. It is just plain luck that I didn't go
down into the mine yesterday."


Lists bearing the names of the dead were posted on the wall
outside the mineshaft entrance.


The death toll from Monday's explosion in the Ulyanovskaya mine
stood at 106, making the accident the deadliest on record in
Russia, according to trade union data and media reports.


The mine is situated some 3,000 kilometers (1,800 miles) east of
Moscow, in the coal heartland known as the Kuzbass.


Officials said the mine was equipped with the latest safety
equipment in a sector that has suffered from chronic underfunding
since the fall of the Soviet Union and often uses ageing
technology.


Speaking to AFP outside the temporary counselling center, miners
who asked not to be named agreed that modern technology was
increasingly being used in the Kuzbass, but they sounded
sceptical about respect for safety regulations.


"Safety rules? We all have to fulfil production plans. We all
want to earn more so the safety measures aren't always there,"
said another miner in a black leather jacket.

