

A Russian-born US doctor and her daughter have been discharged
from a Los Angeles hospital after being treated for thallium
poisoning, doctors said.


Marina Kovalevksy, 49, and her daughter Yana, 26, were discharged
Friday from Cedars-Sinai Medical Center after thallium levels in
the women's bodies "decreased appropriately with treatment," the
hospital said in a statement late on Monday.


As a result, the two women "no longer require hospitalization,"
according to the attending physician, nephrologist Shrinath
Barathan.


The two women had been hospitalized earlier this month two days
after arriving back in the United States from Russia.


Thallium, an odorless, tasteless substance which is highly
poisonous and can come in radioactive form, was at first
suspected in the murder last November of former Russian
intelligence agent Alexander Litvinenko in London.


A lawyer for Kovalevksy, a doctor who emigrated to the US from
Russia in 1989, has said previously the women did not believe
they had been the victim of a murder attempt.


During interviews with FBI and Los Angeles health officials since
their return to the US, no "cloak-and-dagger intrigues" had come
to light, Frank Capwell said earlier this month.


The attorney said the women went to Russia to attend a wedding,
and suddenly "came down with symptoms that required
hospitalization."


The women told the FBI that the only meals they shared were a
buffet breakfast at a hotel, the attorney said.


Russian investigators were reported to have said the pair might
have been poisoned in an attempt to cover up the theft of their
jewelry.


However family members in contact with the women said they had
not mentioned the theft, The Los Angeles Times reported.

