

Top South Korean companies saw their profit margins fall in the
past two years due to the won's strength, weakening
competitiveness and rising raw material prices, official data
showed Tuesday.


The combined operating margin of the top 30 listed companies
dropped from 12 percent in 2004 to 9.4 percent in 2005 and 7.8
percent last year, according to the Korea Exchange, which
operates both the stock spot and futures markets plus the high-
tech KOSDAQ board.


Operating margin is the ratio of profit before tax to sales.


The exchange attributed the fall in profit to rising costs for
raw materials, the won's strength that makes South Korean goods
more expensive abroad and stronger overseas competition.


The operating margin of Samsung Electronics, the country's
largest company, fell from 20.9 percent in 2004 to 14 percent in
2005 and 11.8 percent last year.


Samsung chairman Lee Kun-Hee recently warned that falling
profitability of the global electronics giant was serious.


"We have to wake up. In four to six years time, we may have a
very chaotic situation," he said. "I am not only talking about
Samsung but the country's economy as a whole."


POSCO, the world's third largest steelmaker, reported an
operating margin of 25.5 percent in 2004. The ratio rose to 27.2
percent in 2005 but dropped to 19.4 percent last year.


LG Philips LCD, the world's second largest flat panel maker,
reported a 20.3 percent operating margin in 2004 but the ratio
plunged to minus 9.3 percent in 2006.


During the period only five companies -- including Hyundai Heavy
Industries, the world's largest shipyard -- improved operating
margins.


The LG Economic Research Institute said in a report that South
Korean firms have been suffering from dwindling profitability and
growth since 2003.


Local firms are also more vulnerable to short-term external
shocks because their ability to repay short-term debts is much
lower than that of foreign rivals, it said.

