

Japan plans to extend its air support mission to Iraq for another
two years, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said Tuesday on the fourth
anniversary of the US-led invasion.


Japan last year ended its historic deployment of troops on a
reconstruction mission to Iraq, but continues to provide
logistical air support to the US-led coalition and the United
Nations.


"We would like to continue fulfilling our responsibility in the
reconstruction of Iraq," Abe told reporters.


"Having considered the current situation in Iraq and developments
in the international community, I asked for the ruling party's
approval on the extension of the air force mission by two years,"
Abe said.


Abe's Liberal Democratic Party on Tuesday approved the plan to
extend the current mission, which expires at the end of July.


The bill is seen as certain to pass as the ruling coalition has
an overwhelming majority in parliament.


Iraq had asked Japan to extend its air force mission which its
Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki described in a letter to Abe as
playing a "vital role" in the nation's reconstruction efforts.


Japan's Defence Minister Fumio Kyuma -- who caused a stir earlier
this year when he said the United States was "wrong" to invade
Iraq -- indicated that he hopes to visit Iraq to inspect the
conditions there himself.


"I have a wish to visit Iraq to see with my own eyes the security
situation to examine if the Air Self-Defence Force can continue
its mission without any problems," Kyuma told reporters.


Japan's deployment of 600 troops to Iraq marked the first time
since World War II that Tokyo had sent soldiers to a country
where fighting was underway.


Japan continues to station some 210 air force personnel in Kuwait
to fly people and supplies into Iraq.

