

Iraq has asked Japan to extend its air force mission to the
violence-racked country, the Japanese government said Tuesday,
the fourth anniversary of the US- led invasion.


Japan last year ended its historic deployment of troops on a
reconstruction mission to Iraq, but continues to provide
logistical air support.


"The airlift service that the Japanese air force provide to the
United Nations and the multilateral forces plays a large and
vital role" in Iraq's reconstruction, Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri
al-Maliki wrote in a letter to his Japanese counterpart Shinzo
Abe, according to the foreign ministry.


"The government of Iraq asks for continued support in the area of
reconstruction, and the extension of logistical support by
Japan's Air Self- Defence Force," said the letter, which was
received here last week.


Tokyo is expected to extend the air mission by two years when it
expires at the end of July, but Japan's Defence Minister Fumio
Kyuma plans a visit to Iraq to inspect the conditions himself,
according to local media.


A defence ministry official said that Kyuma has expressed a
desire to visit Iraq but that nothing had been firmly decided
yet.


Japan's deployment of 600 troops to Iraq marked the first time
since World War II that Tokyo had sent soldiers to a country
where fighting was underway.


Japan continues to station some 210 air force personnel in Kuwait
to fly people and supplies into Iraq on behalf of the US-led
coalition and the United Nations.

