

Hong Kong share prices closed 0.47 percent higher Tuesday on
expectations of strong results from blue chips such as China
Mobile and with a rally on Wall Street bolstering sentiment,
dealers said.


They said the gains were kept in check by caution ahead of a US
Federal Reserve policy meeting and worries that China might adopt
more tightening measures following the interest rate hike
announced over the weekend.


The Hang Seng Index was up 90.16 points at 19,356.90, off a high
of 19,463.90 and a low of 19,332.60. Turnover was 39.61 billion
dollars (5.10 billion US).


"The market extended (Monday's) strong gains after Wall Street's
rally overnight, with large cap China Mobile continuing to see
buying interest on hopes that it will report strong results,"
said Conita Hung, research head at Delta Asia Securities.


Hung said overall market sentiment remains positive on hopes for
strong results announcements from major companies.


Hutchison Whampoa, Cheung Kong and Bank of China are among others
due to announce their results this week.


Hung said the market is likely to keep within a 19,000-19,500
points range this week, as investors keep an eye on overseas
bourses and the much awaited Fed's comments on US inflation and
housing market outlook.


The Fed's meeting on interest rates ends Wednesday. The markets
expect no change in policy but want to see what the Fed has to
say about the economic outlook, especially in light of growing
problems in the housing market.


China Mobile closed up 0.65 dollars at 72.80 dollars, extending
gains ahead of its results. Analysts expect the company to report
a net profit of 63.80-69.70 billion yuan for 2006, up from 53.5
billion, on strong subscriber growth, increased business in rural
areas and higher revenue per user.


Among other companies due to report this week, Cheung Kong was
down 1.05 at 92.45 and Hutchison Whampoa down 0.05 at 73.20.


PetroChina shed 0.12 at 8.61 after the company's 2006 results
fell short of market expectations.


Air China fell 0.20 at 5.74 after announcing a 2006 net profit of
2.7 billion yuan, up 11.54 percent.


HSBC added 0.30 at 135.00.


The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index closed up 23.41 points or
0.25 percent at 9,248.67.

