

Authorities in Bangladesh said Tuesday they have found "huge"
amounts of undisclosed money in the bank accounts of dozens of
prominent figures accused of corruption.


Badiur Rahman, chairman of the government's revenue board, could
not give a definitive figure but the leading New Age daily quoted
an unnamed official as saying it was more than 22 billion taka
(318 million dollars).


"Our tax intelligence officials have found huge amounts of
undisclosed money in 53 accounts," Rahman said.


The accounts included those of 50 politicians, bureaucrats and
businessmen named last month on an Anti-Corruption Commission
list of graft suspects.


Hundreds more people are also being investigated.


Some of those named had property confiscated after they failed to
meet the commission's deadline to supply details of their
financial affairs and account for their wealth.


The investigations are all part of a corruption crackdown by
Bangladesh's military-backed interim government which has
detained at least 45 high-profile figures, including former
ministers on graft allegations.


The government has vowed to clean up politics before reinstating
democracy and holding credible elections.


Some of those who have been detained were also named on the list
of 50.


Others now in custody include Tareque Rahman, son of former prime
minister Khaled Zia, who figures on a second list of 50 graft
suspects compiled by the security forces which has not been made
public.


The interim government took power on January 12, one day after
president Iajuddin Ahmed quit down as the head of a caretaker
administration, cancelled scheduled elections and imposed
emergency rule following months of political turmoil.

