

The Philippines, which is battered by about 20 tropical storms a
year, is fast running out of experts who can predict when and
where future storms will strike, a senior official said Tuesday.


Martin Rellin, the director of the Philippine Atmospheric,
Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration (PAGASA),
said that its pool of weather forecasters had fallen to
dangerously low levels.


Of 20 forecasters eight years ago, only 12 now remain -- and half
of those are applying for jobs abroad, he said.


The main company hiring his people is a Singapore firm that
offers weather forecasts for any part of the globe via telephone.


He said PAGASA, which offers weather forecasters salaries of
about 17,000 pesos (350 dollars) a month, could not compete with
foreign companies paying five times as much.


"It worries me because we really need these people," he added.


He said it took years of training to become a weather forecaster
and only the state-run University of the Philippines offered
meteorology courses -- and even it has trouble finding the five
applicants a year required to ensure the subject stays on the
curriculum.


"The University of the Philippines is now having problems in
applicants because the science is not very attractive to
applicants," he said.


To address the problem, PAGASA is now training its researchers to
act as weather forecasters.


"It's a very demanding job, you spend 24 hours tracking a
typhoon. This is our frontline service," Rellin said.


Four typhoons toward the end of 2006 and a spate of mudslides
unleashed by the heavy rains killed at least 1,312 people with a
further 1,859 missing and believed dead, the civil defense agency
said in its annual report.

