

China's Communist Party school is compiling its first anti-
corruption textbook for top cadres to study in the latest sign of
official concern over rampant graft, state media reported
Tuesday.


The Central Party School will eventually include the new text in
its official curriculum for high-ranking party members, the China
Daily newspaper said.


"This will be the first systematic, formal and exclusive textbook
on anti- corruption in the history of the Central Party School,"
Hou Shaohua, deputy director of the school's Teaching Department,
told the paper.


The textbook idea follows a call by president and party leader Hu
Jintao during a December party discipline meeting for
strengthened ethics education among officials at all levels to
root out corruption, the paper said.


Hou said anti-corruption education was already taught at the
school, but it has never had a textbook specifically on the
subject.


"Ethical and moral education is also part of the textbook," he
added.


The report did not say when the text would be completed and
introduced at the school, the party's training ground for future
high- and mid-level party and government officials.


Corruption has become one of the top causes of social discontent
in booming China, sparking thousands of public disturbances every
year, often due to anger over corrupt land deals and other
unethical collusion by businesses and government officials.


Premier Wen Jiabao singled out government graft in his state of
the nation address earlier this month, warning that party members
would no longer be allowed to get involved in golf course
development, spend lavishly on entertainment or take land from
ordinary people in corrupt deals.

