

Taiwan electronics major BenQ Corp said Tuesday its net loss in
2006 jumped sharply, with its chairman offering to resign due to
the heavy costs incurred when it bought Seimens AG's mobile
handset division.


BenQ said it sustained a 2006 net loss of 27.61 billion dollars
(834 million US), more than five times the year earlier loss of
5.23 billion dollars.


"Our chairman KY Lee tendered his resignation this morning to
take the blame for the heavy losses but it was declined by the
board," company executive vice president Jerry Wang said.


"Other board members wanted Lee to stay on and carry out the task
of returning BenQ to profitability at the earliest date," Wang
said in an investor conference.


BenQ announced in September 2006 the closure of its German mobile
phone division, just a year after buying it from German group
Siemens, while assessing its operations in other countries.


Wang said the company expects sales in the first quarter to March
to fall sequentially from the fourth quarter due to what it
called seasonal factors.


BenQ posted 34.60 billion dollars in sales for the October-
December period, bringing 2006 sales to 198.54 billion dollars.


When asked to comment on market talk that it is being targeted
for a possible acquisition by private-equity funds and other
technology groups, Wang said his company would not welcome any
hostile takeover attempt.


The company's problems have been complicated by a probe into
alleged insider trading involving ranking officials at BenQ.


Last week, prosecutors searched BenQ's offices in Taipei and
northern Taoyuan county and questioned several company officials,
including senior vice president Eric Yu, chief financial officer
Alex Liou and accounting manager D.W. Liu in connection with the
investigation.

