

Japan's fallen Internet star Takafumi Horie rallied to the
defence of former corporate raider Yoshiaki Murakami Tuesday,
questioning the allegations of insider trading at the ex-fund
manager's trial.


The Livedoor founder, who was sentenced to two and a half years
in prison last week, testified for the defence of Murakami, the
pioneering fund manager accused of illegally profiting from
takeover information obtained from Horie.


He questioned the prosecution's claims that Murakami bought
shares in Nippon Broadcasting in late 2004 in the knowledge that
Livedoor would then try to buy a large stake in the radio firm.


"I had not decided on the purchase at that time," Horie said, in
the same room of the Tokyo District Court where he was sentenced
last week over a fraud scandal at Livedoor.


"I actually made a decision in February, two years ago, just
before we started making a large purchase," said Horie, who wore
a casual shirt and jeans, in contrast to the suit he donned for
his own trial.


According to prosecutors, Murakami bought 1.93 million shares in
Nippon Broadcasting and later sold them for about 13 billion yen
(110 million dollars), making a profit of around three billion
yen.


Murakami has admitted Livedoor proposed jointly buying shares but
said he did not think it had enough capital to buy five percent
of the radio firm, the level at which Murakami's own purchases
could be considered insider trading.


A self-proclaimed corporate raider and defender of shareholders'
interests, the former bureaucrat led Japan's first hostile
takeover bid with a takeover attempt for electronics and real
estate company Shoei.


The ripples from the scandal even reached Bank of Japan governor
Toshihiko Fukui, who faced calls to resign after admitting to
investing in Murakami's fund, but kept his job after offering to
donate the money to charity.

