

North Korea will only consider its financial dispute with the US
settled once it is confirmed that some 25 million dollars in
frozen funds has been returned, a pro-Pyongyang newspaper said
Tuesday.


The issue has been delaying efforts to implement a multinational
deal under which the North would shut down its nuclear programmes
in exchange for economic and diplomatic benefits.


The United States said on Monday it had struck a deal to release
all the North Korean assets frozen in a Macau bank since
September 2005.


"The DPRK (North Korea) insists that the issue will be fully
resolved only when the release of frozen funds is confirmed," the
Japan-based paper, Chosun Sinbo, said on its website.


"The DPRK's position is firm that the lifting of the financial
sanctions is a prerequisite to entering discussions on the
implementation of the September 2005 agreement," it said.


Pyongyang considered the financial sanctions a "concentrated
expression" of US hostile policy towards the communist state, the
paper said.


The report came as envoys from six nations were holding
negotiations in Beijing on ways to implement the February 13
nuclear agreement.


A similar denuclearisation deal reached in September 2005 fell
apart after the US blacklisted Macau's Banco Delta Asia on
suspicion of helping North Korea's money laundering and
counterfeiting.


Macau authorities then froze the accounts.


US Treasury officials said the funds would be deposited in a
foreign trade account at a Bank of China branch in Beijing. They
said the North had given assurances it would be used for
humanitarian purposes and not for the ruling elite.


The Macau Monetary Authority late Monday confirmed it would
release the 25 million dollars "in accordance with the
instructions of the account-holders" but it was unclear how long
the process would take.

