

The United States has pledged to help Vietnam build a nuclear
power plant if the country switches to non-weapons-grade uranium
in its test reactor, a Vietnamese diplomatic source said Tuesday.


Washington was ready to help its former enemy turned trading
partner meet its burgeoning energy needs but wanted to ensure it
does not produce high-grade radioactive material that could fall
into the wrong hands, the source said.


"The United States doesn't want to have a second North Korea in
the Asia Pacific," said the diplomat, who spoke on condition of
anonymity in Hanoi.


The nuclear issue was a major theme of last week's Washington
meeting between US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and
Vietnam's Foreign Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Pham Gia
Khiem, the source said.


"The United States agreed with the Vietnamese proposal to help it
build its first nuclear power plant in order to meet its rising
electricity needs," said the diplomat. "Vietnam lacks power and
demand is growing rapidly."


A US embassy official in Hanoi said: "We've had a lot of broad-
based discussions about various nuclear issues and providing
assistance and cooperation to the Vietnamese, but there is no
formal agreement at this point."


Earlier Tuesday, the US said Vietnam had agreed to convert its
Soviet-built Dalat research reactor, located about 250 kilometres
(150 miles) northeast of Ho Chi Minh City, from high- to low-
enriched uranium fuel.


Vietnam would also "move forward with the repatriation of
Russian-origin highly enriched uranium fuel" under an agreement
with the International Atomic Energy Agency, said a statement
issued by the US embassy.

