

Taiwan plans to stage a series of live-fire war games from next
month as part of efforts to assess its defence capabilities
against bitter rival China, the defence ministry said Tuesday.


The manoeuvres codenamed "Han Kuang 23" (Han Glory) will be held
between April and May, the ministry said.


Drills on the islands of Kinmen, Matsu and Penghu and in southern
Pingtung county would aim to prevent enemy landings while
exercises in the eastern county of Hualien would focus on defence
of the airport there, it said.


"Hopefully this year's exercises could be done in a more
practical way, like in a war," defense ministry spokesman Major
General Wu Chi-fang said, adding that details have yet to be
finalised.


China considers Taiwan a part of its territory and has repeatedly
threatened to invade the island should it declare formal
independence.


Taiwan's Defence Minister Lee Jye said last week the island
needed to buy more advanced weaponry to counter the threat from
China's rapid military buildup, which he said had seen Taiwan
gradually lose its air and naval superiority.


China recently announced it would increase its military spending
17.8 percent to about 45 billion US dollars in 2007.


Lee said China had stockpiled more than 900 ballistic and cruise
missiles aimed at the island, with the number increasing at a
rate of 75 to 100 a year.


Washington has expressed concern about China's hike in military
spending, warning it was "inconsistent" with Beijing's policy of
peaceful development.


Tensions between Taiwan and China have escalated since the
independence-leaning Chen Shui-bian was elected president in
2000. He was narrowly re-elected in 2004.

