

Japanese share prices bounced back for a second straight day
Tuesday as overnight gains on Wall Street and a softer yen
provided a further boost to recovering investor sentiment,
dealers said.


They said a decision by Japan's central bank to leave its
benchmark interest rate on hold at 0.5 percent had little impact
on the market, which clawed back more lost ground after the heavy
recent sell-off.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's benchmark Nikkei-225 index of leading
shares gained 153.65 points or 0.90 percent to 17,163.20,
extending Monday's 1.59 percent advance.


The TOPIX index of all issues on the Tokyo Stock Exchange's first
section was up 14.21 points or 0.84 percent to 1,708.29.


Gainers beat decliners 1,194 to 426, with 111 stocks flat.


Volume was 1.90 billion shares, unchanged from Monday.


"The market's gains were helped by rallies on the US stock
markets as well as by the weaker yen," said Fumiyuki Nakanishi,
chief strategist at SMBC Friend Securities.


"Property stocks were also higher, supported by positive
expectations on the outcome of the 2006 land prices survey on
Thursday," Nakanishi said.


Investors largely ignored a Bank of Japan decision to hold its
key lending rate at 0.5 percent, a move that had been widely
expected after the quarter-point rate rise last month.


The focus now is on the US Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC)
which was due to kick off a two-day interest rate meeting later
Tuesday amid concerns about US bad home loans.


"Eyes are on whether the FOMC will remove the phrase suggesting a
possible rate hike ahead," said Kazuhiro Takahashi, equities
manager at Daiwa Securities SMBC, referring to the Fed's
statement after the meeting.


He said investors would likely buy stocks actively on continuing
hopes for corporate earnings growth once the Fed decision is out
of the way.


Real estate, shipping and transportation stocks were among the
strongest performers.


Mitsui Fudosan rallied 130 yen or 4.02 percent to 3,360 while
Mitsubishi Estate gained 130 or 3.56 percent to 3,780.


Sanyo Electric edged up two yen or 1.09 percent to 186 after the
chairwoman of the struggling electronics maker resigned in an
apparent rift over how to respond to allegations of accounting
irregularities, dealers said.


On the foreign exchange market, the dollar firmed to 117.85 yen
in Tokyo afternoon trade from 117.59 in New York late Monday.


The euro edged down to 1.3287 dollars from 1.3297 but rose to
156.56 yen from 156.49.


The Tokyo stock market will be closed on Wednesday for a public
holiday.

