

Brazilian playmaker Juninho popped up with an injury time goal to
earn champions Lyon a last gasp 1-1 draw against Paris Saint
Germain at Parc des Princes on Saturday.


Juninho's 94th minute header cancelled out Edouard Cisse's shot
two minutes after the break to leave PSG with another precious
point in their fight to stay in the top division.


Paul Le Guen's side are placed sixth from bottom, seven points
above the drop zone with only games against fellow relegation
battlers Nice and Troyes remaining.


But the Paris club's position is a whole lot rosier after a fine
sequence in April which resulted in a four run winning streak.


"We're continuing on our path and we're reasonably happy," said
Cisse. "I would have preferred to win 1-0 but at least we are
still progressing and can take on Nice on Wednesday with
confidence."


For Le Guen the result proved PSG were still on the right path.
"We're still in fighting with the others but we're a whole lot
better placed than we were a month and a half ago.


"I'm convinced we'll stay up but we can't lift our foot off the
pedal now." Lyon boss Gerard Houllier commented: "I have to say a
big well done to Paul (Le Guen), I'm happy that PSG look to be
staying up."


The former Liverpool manager added: "Since we were knocked out of
the Champions League we've won six and drawn six, that's the mark
of champions. With their sixth title already in the bag Lyon
moved up to 75 points.


Nantes' bid to stave off relegation for the first time in their
history suffered a major knock when the club footing the table
were held 1-1 at Le Mans.


The Canaries, missing their World Cup winning goalkeeper Fabien
Barthez who walked out of the club in midweek after being
attacked by fans, were heading for defeat only for Claudio Keseru
to come up with an injury time equaliser.


Second from bottom Sedan breathed new life into their hopes of
staying up with a 3-1 win against Lorient while Troyes, one point
in front of them, suffered a 1-0 loss at Auxerre.


Back up at the top Lens' ambitions of playing Champions League
football next season received a major boost when they saw off
Toulouse 2-0 to go second, level on 56 points with Bordeaux who
eked out a goalless draw at Rennes.


Sunday's action sees fourth-placed Marseille at Monaco and Saint
Etienne hosting Lille.

