

The anti-French leader of the Ivory Coast's Young Patriot
movement, Charles Ble Goude, said Saturday he has been named
"ambassador for reconciliation and peace" by the government.


The close ally of President Laurent Gbagbo was nominated for his
work in helping resolve the political crisis in Ivory Coast since
a failed coup in September 2002 left the country split in two.


The nomination comes after Ble Goude was last year placed under
United Nations sanctions for hindering the peace process.


He dedicated his nomination, confirmed during a ceremony on
Friday, "to all the victims" of the violence in the former French
colony.


"I congratulate myself on the responsiblity that the Ivorian
state has put on me to continue the work of reconciliation," he
told AFP.


National Reconciliation Minister Sebastien Dano said the symbolic
post "is a recognition of the work achieved and an encouragement
of its continuation in collaboration with the ministry," the
local press reported.


Ble Goude led violent anti-French protests in November 2004,
which forced more than 8,000 westerners, most of them French, to
flee.


He was also a strong opponent of the rebel New Forces movement
led by Guillaume Soro, now the country's prime minister, accusing
them of treason in their attempted coup against Gbagbo in
September 2002.


But last January, after Gbagbo called for direct dialogue with
the rebels, Ble Goude launched a "peace caravan" across the
government-controlled south and pledged to work from then on to
reconcile the country.


A peace deal signed by the government and the New Forces rebels
in March aimed to reunify the Ivory Coast.


During Friday's ceremony, New Forces spokesman Sidiki Konate
demonstrated their reconciliation by urging that UN sanctions
against Ble Goude be lifted, according to the local press.


A similar demand for all Ivorians was included in the March 4
peace deal.

