

India said Saturday it will not agree on the withdrawal of troops
from a glacier in disputed Kashmir until Islamabad reveals its
positions there, the Press Trust of India reported.


Nuclear-armed India and Pakistan have held many rounds of talks
on the withdrawal of troops from the 6,300 metre (20,800-feet)
high Siachen glacier without narrowing their differences.


"We have to keep the history in mind. Both sides will have to
agree on the actual ground position," India's Defence Minister
A.K. Anthony told reporters following his first visit to the
Siachen region.


The Indian army, which has occupied most of the high-altitude
battlefield since 1987, wants "iron-clad" evidence of existing
troop positions to dissuade Pakistan from moving its soldiers
forward in the event of a pull-out.


Pakistan fears that setting out its positions would be tacit
acceptance of India's claims to Siachen and the area as a whole.


"Pakistan will have to demarcate the actual ground position line
-- both on the ground as well as on the map -- before any headway
is made," said the minister, who took the post last year.


"Our position from the beginning is very clear that before any
forward movement is made, we must authenticate the actual ground
position line."


The last round of talks on troop withdrawal took place in
Islamabad last month.


Experts say India has around 5,000 troops on the glacier while
Pakistan has less than half that number on the frigid wasteland,
where temperatures plummet to minus 50 degrees Celsius (minus 58
degrees Fahrenheit).


Kashmir -- of which Siachen is a part -- is divided between
Pakistan and India and is claimed by both in full. It has caused
two of the three wars between the neighbours since their
independence in 1947 from Britain.


Both sides also fought a fierce skirmish on Siachen in 1987.


Analysts say the value of the glacier is mostly symbolic rather
than strategic.

