

A Kenya Airways airliner with 115 people on board crashed
Saturday after taking off from Douala airport in Cameroon on a
flight to Nairobi, an aviation official said.


"The plane has crashed," the official with the Kenyan Civil
Aviation Authority, who asked not to be named, told AFP.


A top government official told AFP: "We have located the plane
... and we cannot talk about it."


The plane, a Boeing 737-800 carrying 106 passengers, eight crew
members and a flight engineer, was due to land in Nairobi on
Saturday at 6.15 am (0315 GMT).


Air traffic controllers picked up a distress signal from the
missing Kenya Airways airliner just after it took off from Douala
airport in Cameroon, an aviation source said.


The signal was picked up by satellite at 2.00 am (0100 GMT), a
source close to the Agency for the Safety of Aerial Navigation in
Africa told AFP.


Two Cameroonian army helicopters on Saturday began searching a
wide area south of the line between Douala and the capital
Yaounde, 250 kilometres (180 miles) to the east, to try to locate
the aircraft.


Cameroonian authorities have set up two emergency centres, one in
Yaounde and the other in Douala, to coordinate search operations.


Flight KQ 507 was flying from Abdijan in Ivory Coast to Nairobi
via Douala, in Cameroon.


Most of the passengers were connecting through Nairobi to other
destinations outside Kenya.


A crisis centre has been set up at Kenya Airways headquarters at
Nairobi airport.


In January 2000 a Kenya Airways Airbus crashed into the sea after
taking off from Abidjan airport in Ivory Coast killing 169
passengers and 10 crew.


Kenya Airways was to hold a news conference at 12.00 pm local
time (0900 GMT).

