

US President George W. Bush urged Congress Saturday to approve a
new and "responsible" funding bill for the Iraq war,  warning of
new violence if the money fail to materialize quickly.


"I call on Congress to work with my administration and quickly
craft a responsible war spending bill," Bush said in his weekly
radio address. "By working together, I believe we can pass a good
bill quickly and give our troops the resources and flexibility
they need."


On Tuesday, Bush vetoed a bill, which was to allocate 124 billion
dollars in emergency funding for US troops in Iraq and
Afghanistan, because it contained a call for US combat troops to
start coming home by October 1 and for most of them to be
withdrawn by March 2008.


He has appointed a high-level team led by his chief of staff,
Josh Bolten, to negotiate with Congress a new version of the
measure.


At the same time, he warned that if radical Islamists take
control of Iraq, they would have control of a nation with massive
oil reserves, which they could use to fund their ambitions and
spread their influence.


"The Al-Qaeda terrorists who behead captives or order suicide
bombings would not be satisfied to see America defeated and gone
from Iraq," Bush said. "They would be emboldened by their
victory, protected by their new sanctuary, eager to impose their
hateful vision on surrounding countries, and eager to harm
Americans."

