

British detectives arrived in Portugal on Saturday to help in the
desperate search for a missing three-year-old British girl police
fear was snatched from her hotel room.


Madeleine "Maddie" McCann had been left sleeping in a hotel room
on Thursday evening with her two-year-old twin brother and sister
in a resort in the Algarve while her parents said they ate in a
nearby restaurant.


Gerry and Kate McCann, doctors from Leicester in the English
Midlands and both aged 38, checked back regularly from the nearby
restaurant in a resort near the village of Praia da Luz.


But when they returned at around 10:00 pm (2000 GMT) they
discovered Madeleine was missing and the door of the room and a
window were open.


Portuguese police, who have so far interviewed around 30 people
and received more than 30,000 phone calls, confirmed for the
first time on Saturday morning that they believed the girl had
been kidnapped.


"We have details that corroborate the kidnapping theory," deputy
police chief Guilhermino Encarnacao told journalists. "I am
calling on the abductor to return the girl."


Nearly 150 Portuguese police were searching for Madeleine.


They say they have a photofit image of the suspected kidnapper,
but declined to release it for now to avoid endangering the girl.
Investigators believe she is still in Portugal.


Late Saturday police cancelled a planned news conference, saying
they had nothing new to announce.


Madeleine's parents have made anguished pleas for public help to
find their daughter. The front pages of many of Saturday's
Portuguese newspapers carried pictures of the girl.


The British ambassador to Portugal John Buck told reporters that
the three British detectives would act as a liaison between the
family of the girl and Portuguese police, and between the
Portuguese and British police.

