

The race jury at the Louis Vuitton Cup on Saturday has rejected a
move by Swedish challenger Victory Challenge to stop an ordered
rematch between Italian team Mascalzone and Spanish rivals
Desafio.


Mascalzone was adjuged to have broken the rules on using
backstays during racing, leading the jury to decide on Thursday
that the Italian outfit should replay its match against Desafio.


Mascalzone initially beat the Spanish outfit on Wednesday, with
whom it is vying for a place in the semis.


Victory Challenge is also vying for a place in the last four and,
aware that a Desafio win in the rematch would harm those hopes,
has requested a re-opening of the hearing.


However the jury rejected that plea.


In a statement, Victory Challenge said they felt Mascalzone had
earned their actual victory fairly after not gaining any material
performance advantage throug their illegal maneouvre.


But the Swedes added: "The Jury did not receive enough expert
testimony and evidence regarding the strength of Mascalzone's
mast to be able to determine the degree of risk the mast would
have been in had they not attached their top mast running
backstays."


In the Swedes' opinion, "Spain lost the race on the water. It is
not equitable to the other teams in the event that they should
receive a second chance to try to win the same race.


"We feel also that Mascalzone broke a rule and should receive a
points penalty. By being permitted to correct the error and have
a second chance to win the race, it is equally not equitable."


But the jury said the rules called for significant new evidence
to be presented if it was to reverse its decision and that none
had emerged.


"The jury is not satisfied that it may have made a significant
error," the jury said in a statement.

