

The Muslim member of Bosnia's tripartite presidency, Haris
Silajdzic, is under investigation for international arms
smuggling, local newspapers reported Saturday.


Police are also investigating a former deputy defence minister in
Bosnia's Muslim-Croat Federation, Hasan Cengic, Turkish
businessman Nedim Suljak and the former head of Muslim
humanitarian organisation TWRA, Fatih El Hasanein, the reports
said.


The Nezavisne Novine daily said the weapons came from Ukraine and
Russia and were shipped to Africa by aircraft of the Bio-Air
company, founded by Cengic, who was also an official of the now
disbanded TWRA.


The paper quoted police as saying Silajdzic knew about the
smuggling and had been taking a cut from the sale of weapons
worth millions of euros.


Bosnian state prosecutors confirmed that an investigation into
international illegal weapons smuggling had been opened but
refused to provide details or confirm who was under
investigation.


The Muslim-Croat Federation's interior ministry also confirmed
Saturday that a probe had been opened but it denied that
Silajdzic was a target.


The ministry also did not confirm whether Cengic, Suljak and El
Hasanein were under investigation.


During Bosnia's 1992-95 war TWRA is alleged to have acquired
weapons in contravention of an international embargo for Bosnian
Muslim fighters and foreign Islamists who aided them.


Silajdzic, who was Bosnian foreign minister during the war, was
elected one of the three members of the country's collective
presidency in October last year.


After the war which accompanied the break-up of the former
Yugoslavia, Bosnia was split into a Serb entity, the Republika
Srpska, and the Muslim-Croat Federation under a weak collective
presidency.

