

Iran has arrested the editor of a student paper after the
publication of material deemed insulting to Islam in four
reformist papers at a prestigious Tehran university, press
reports said on Saturday.


"Ahmad Ghassaban the editor of Sahar (Dawn), a student paper in
Amir Kabir University, was arrested on Thursday," the reformist
Etemad daily said.


His arrest came after caricatures and articles deemed insulting
to Islam appeared on campus in papers bearing the insignia of
Sahar and three other student publications.


It was not clear exactly what the reportedly offensive material
contained.


Ghassaban and other editors belonging to a reformist student
movement denied any involvement, saying the images were put into
papers by unknown individuals as a plot to discredit them.


Student members of the Basij militia have reportedly protested
against the material in the past days, calling for the expulsion
of those responsible for their publication.


The Iranian judiciary said on Wednesday it had arrested five
people -- none of them students -- linked to the publication of
the material in question.


Etemad said 120 student publications had supported the Amir Kabir
editors and called for "action against those who forge student
papers."


Amir Kabir University was involved in student demonstrations that
rocked Iran in 2002 and has often been seen as a hotbed of
student radicalism.


A speech by President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad at the university last
year was interrupted by heckling and jeers, with one student
burning his picture and another hurling a shoe.

