

Six people, including two Muslim children, have been killed by
suspected Islamic rebels in separate attacks in Thailand's
violence-torn south, police said Saturday.


A 40-year-old Muslim man was gunned down Saturday in a drive-by
shooting while riding a motorcycle in Yala, one of three Muslim-
majority provinces bordering Malaysia.


A group of militants also ambushed a motorcycle in Yala late
Friday and shot dead a 45-year-old Muslim man and his two
children -- an 11-year-old girl and a seven-year-old boy.


Also in Yala, a 37-year-old Muslim man was hacked to death by
militants in public view at a market late Friday, while police
found the body of a man in a river in the province.


Police suspected the man was a victim of Thailand's three-year
insurgency.


Police said several hundred Muslim women and children also
blocked a highway in Yala Saturday as they continued their sit-in
for a third consecutive day to demand authorities release
suspected militants.


Some 20 kilometres (12 miles) away from the sit-in, hundreds of
Buddhists also took to the streets, demanding the Muslims end the
road blockade.


More than 2,100 people have been killed in the ongoing insurgency
in the three southern provinces of Yala, Narathiwat and Pattani.


The Muslim-majority provinces were once an autonomous sultanate,
until the region was annexed by mainly Buddhist Thailand a
century ago. Separatist unrest has erupted periodically ever
since.


The military-backed government, which came to power after a
September coup, has made peace-building efforts in a bid to rein
in the unrest, but violence has escalated in the last six months.

