

Former Bangladesh premier Sheikh Hasina Wajed is seeking a
million pounds in damages from British Airways for not letting
her board a plane home.


Hasina's lawyers served a legal notice on British Airways (BA) on
Friday after the airline refused to let her board the April 23
flight to Dhaka, her secretary told AFP.


"BA did not give her a boarding pass, citing security reasons. It
caused her immense mental stress and agony," Abdus Sobhan Golap
said from London.


"We are seeking a million pounds (two million dollars) in
damages," he said, adding that BA has two weeks to reply to the
notice.


There was no immediate comment available from British Airways.


The Bangladesh government blocked Hasina's return from London on
April 18, saying she was a national security threat.


Last Wednesday, the government said it was lifting restrictions
on her return, backtracking on plans to exile her and her bitter
rival Khaleda Zia amid local and international pressure.


Hasina, who heads the opposition Awami League, now plans to leave
London for Dhaka on Sunday night aboard a flight run by Abu
Dhabi-based airline Etihad Airways, according to a senior party
official in Dhaka.


Bangladesh has been ruled by a military-backed government since
January when the country's president declared a state of
emergency and cancelled elections slated for January 22.


The government has vowed to clean up politics and carry out
sweeping electoral reforms before setting a new date for
elections. Last month, the head of the government pledged polls
would be held before the end of 2008.


Authorities have accused both Hasina and Zia of years of misrule.


Indian news reports said the five-page legal notice served on BA
claimed that the Awami Party chief had suffered "grave mental
stress and agony" as a result of the airline's decision.

