

A Kenya Airways airliner that crashed Saturday after taking off
from Douala airport in Cameroon on a flight to Nairobi, was
carrying 82 Africans, 21 Asians, seven Europeans, one US citizen
and three others, the company said Saturday.


Kenya Airways said a total of 114 people were on board the Boeing
737-800 travelling from Abidjan to Nairobi, via Douala, including
105 passengers and nine crew.


The nationalities are: 35 Cameroonians, 15 Indians, nine Kenyan
crew members, seven South Africans, six Chinese, six Ivorians,
six Nigerians, five Britons, three Nigerians, two from the
Central African Republic, two from the Democratic Republic of
Congo, one US citizen, one Swiss, one Swede, one Malian, one
Togolese, one Ghanaian, one from the Comoros, one from Mauritius,
one Senegalese, one Congolese from Congo-Brazzaville, one
Egyptian, one Tanzanian, one from Burkina Faso and two from
Equatorial Guinea.


The chief executive officer for Kenya Airways, Titus Naikuni,
told a news conference that three of six others who had not
previously been identified included one Cameroonian, and two from
Equatorial Guinea, and that they were still working to identify
the nationalities of the other three.


Air traffic controllers picked up a distress signal from the
missing airliner just after it took off from Douala airport in
Cameroon, a source close to the Agency for the Safety of Aerial
Navigation in Africa told AFP.


Two Cameroonian army helicopters began searching a wide area
south of the line between Douala and the capital Yaounde, 250
kilometres (180 miles) to the east, to try to locate the
aircraft.


Air France-KLM owns 26 percent stake in Kenya Airways, which
prides itself on its reputation as a reliable African air
company.

