

Investigators uncovered mass graves containing the bodies of more
than 100 people believed to be victims of right-wing militias in
southern Colombia, the country's interior minister said on
Saturday.


Judicial authorities and police found the graves in the southern
district of Putumayo near the borders of Ecuador and Peru, the
minister, Carlos Holguin, told the Caracol radio station, saying
he was "horrified" at the find.


Public prosecutor Mario Iguaran told reporters there were
Ecuadorans among the 105 dead in the series of 65 graves. A
source in the prosecutor's office earlier told AFP that most of
those found were local peasants.


He said the discovery was made possible by a law on the
demobilization of paramilitary fighters in the country, allowing
for lighter sentences in return for confessions and compensation
for victims, even over the worst crimes.


Right-wing paramilitary groups, organized as private armies in
the 1980s to protect properties from leftist guerrillas, are
accused of numerous massacres of civilians suspected of leftist
sympathies.


Hundreds of other corpses have been unearthed in mass graves
elsewhere in the country.


The largest umbrella group representing paramilitaries, the
United Self-Defense Forces of Colombia, is regarded by the United
States as a terrorist organization.


It officially demobilized the last of its 30,000 fighters in
April in a deal that guaranteed prison terms of no more than
eight years.

