

With President George W. Bush's popularity hitting a record low,
all three top Democratic candidates can beat the leading
Republicans in the presidential race to replace him next year,
according to a new poll Saturday.


Four days after Bush vetoed a Democrat Party-driven measure to
set a timetable for withdrawing US troops from Iraq, the Newsweek
poll said his popularity fell to an all-time low of 28 percent.


That matched the lows of highly unpopular president Jimmy Carter
in 1979, the year before he was trounced in the election by
Ronald Reagan when he sought a second white House term.


The poll also showed that any of Democratic frontrunners Hillary
Clinton, Barack Obama and John Edwards could solidly beat either
Rudolph Giuliani or John McCain, the top Republican candidates,
in the election in November 2008.


The poll of 1,000 adults, taken ahead of Thursday's debate
between the eight Republican candidates for their party's 2008
nomination, showed Clinton beating Republican favorite Giuliani
49-46 percent; Obama beating Giuliani 50-43 percent; and Edwards
beating the former New York City mayor 50-44 percent.


Senator Clinton, wife of former US president Bill Clinton, led
Republican Senator McCain 50-44 percent, while Senator Obama beat
McCain 52-39 percent and Edwards topped him 52-42 percent.


Similar matchups against the Republican former Massachusetts
governor Mitt Romney showed even greater spreads favoring the
Democrats.


While Obama fared best in the matchups, the poll showed that
Democrats solidly favored Clinton over Obama and Edwards as their
party's nominee for the race, 52-38 percent and 63-32 percent,
respectively.


Republicans preferred Giuliani over McCain as their party's
nominee 59-48 percent, and Giuliani over Romney 70-20 percent,
according to the poll.

