

Japan will consider enacting a new law to allow the deployment of
troops to Afghanistan to help with reconstruction efforts,
Defence Minister Fumio Kyuma was Saturday reported as saying.


In a meeting with NATO Secretary General Jaap de Hoop Scheffer in
Brussels, Kyuma suggested Japan was willing to study the
possibility of sending troops there, Kyodo News said.


The minister also told reporters that Tokyo would study revising
the special anti-terrorism law as an alternative to enable
Japanese troops to provide such help, Kyodo said.


The government "would like to conduct a study as to whether we
can draw up a law to enable a broad range of activities such as
those for enabling the Self Defense Force to go to help a country
rebuild itself," Kyuma said, according to Kyodo.


Kyuma said the government wanted to start full-fledged
deliberations on the envisioned law after the upper house
elections this summer, Kyodo said.


The Japanese leadership have been working to change the nation's
pacifist constitution to expand the role of the military.


As it seeks greater international influence, Japan has been
expanding the role of its troops to include overseas disaster
relief missions and logistical support for multinational forces
in countries like Afghanistan but also Iraq.


Prime Minister Shinzo Abe in January pledged Japan would play a
wider role in NATO's peacekeeping and stability missions.


He offered to send Japanese military personnel abroad on
reconstruction and disaster relief operations, as well as involve
them more in Afghanistan


Tokyo already provides offshore refuelling services for NATO in
its mission in Afghanistan, where troops from 37 nations are
under alliance command.


Japan also sent troops to Iraq, the first such deployment to a
combat area since the end of World War II.

