

US Major League Baseball is negotiating to open next season in
Japan and stage exhibition games next March in China, the New
York Times reported Saturday.


Citing unnamed sources briefed on the talks, the newspaper
reported that preliminary exchanges have started and that league
officials would prefer the arch-rival New York Yankees and Boston
Red Sox to be the teams going to Asia.


The Yankees feature Japanese outfielder Hideki Matsui and pitcher
Kei Igawa while the Red Sox signed Japanese star pitcher Daisuke
Matsuzaka to a six-year, 52 million-dollar deal after spending 51
million dollars just to talk with him.


The Los Angeles Dodgers and San Diego Padres are believed to be
among other teams being considered for the trip.


"We're talking to a number of different clubs about a number of
different possibilities," Major League Baseball spokesman Pat
Courtney told the Times.


Major League Baseball has staged openers in Japan several times,
most recently in 2004 when the Yankees and Devil Rays met in
Tokyo.


But losing a high-profile Yankees-Red Sox series to Asia would
require compensation for clubs involved and upset US fans who
fill ballparks when the American League East division foes meet.


China would host Major League Baseball games for the first time
just five months before the Beijing Olympics, the final Summer
Games to feature baseball, in part because the major leagues
refuse to shut down for the Olympics.


The Yankees made a goodwill tour of China in January to try and
lift their brand in the prized marketplace, agreeing to create
baseball acadamies in China and send scouts and coaches to help
develop talent.


"Because the Yankee brand is so well known in Asia and all over
the world, the Yankees would be interested," Yankees spokesman
Howard Rubenstein told the Times.

