

The Muslim member of Bosnia's tripartite presidency Haris
Silajdzic is under investigation for international arms
smuggling, local newspapers reported Saturday.


The Nezavisne Novine daily on Saturday quoted police as saying
Silajdzic knew about organised arms smuggling worth millions of
euros and had been taking a cut from the sale of weapons.


Police have also opened an investigation into weapons smuggling
against former deputy defence minister in the Muslim-Croat
Federation, Hasan Cengic, Turkish businessman Nedim Suljak and
the head of the Muslim humanitarian organisation TWRA, Fatih El
Hasanein.


According to the newspaper, the weapons ended up in the countries
of former Soviet Union, in Africa and other war zones. It was not
clear over what period of time the alleged international illegal
smuggling took place.


Bosnian state prosecutors confirmed that an investigation into
international illegal weapons smuggling had been opened but
refused to provide details or confirm who was under
investigation.


"We cannot comment on these allegations for we never give
information on possible investigations nor we want to comment
information that someone is under investigation and for what",
spokesman for Bosnian prosecutor Boris Grubesic told Nezavisne
Novine.


Silajdzic, who was Bosnian foreign minister during the country's
1992-95 war, was elected president in Bosnia's tripartite
presidency in October last year at the general elections.

