

Germany is to send six soldiers to Afghanistan's volatile south,
but for non- combat operations, a spokesman for the German
defence ministry said on Saturday.


Germany has come under pressure from its NATO allies to transfer
some of its 3,000 troops from the relatively safe north to the
south to support their mostly US, British and Canadian allies in
fighting Taliban-led insurgents.


But the troops' very presence in Afghanistan has caused unease in
Germany six decades after the end of World War II and a
parliamentary mandate limits their activities to areas such as
logistics and first aid.


Three of the soldiers now being sent will win over local support
for the deployment of NATO's International Security Assistance
Force (ISAF).


The others will assess conditions in the south for a possible
deployment of an Afghan batallion currently in the relatively
safe north of the country and decide what equipment they will
need.


The mission is expected to last three to four weeks and the
soldiers will be sent in the coming weeks. The deployment is in
response to a request by the Afghan government, the spokesman
said.


On Friday German Defence Minister Franz Josef Jung declined a
request from the Afghan government to send 19 German army
instructors to accompany an Afghan battalion being deployed near
Kandahar in the volatile south.


ISAF has around 37,000 troops from 37 countries, around a third
of whom are in the south.

