

Indonesia President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono on Saturday started
to summon ministers to his home for private meetings to reveal
his cabinet reshuffle plans.


"President Yudhoyono will start to summon today a number of
minister candidates and current ministers to be posted in new
ministerial posts," presidential spokesman Andi Malarangeng told
ElShinta radio.


Sofyan Djalil, communications and information minister, was the
first to be summoned, and emerged from the meeting to say he had
been given a new portfolio.


However he declined to tell reporters camped outside the
president's home in Bogor city in West Java what the new post
was.


The reshuffle is expected to be announced Monday.


The president said several weeks ago that he would change his
cabinet in early May, prompting media speculation and intense
political jostling.


The transport minister is widely expected to be demoted after a
slew of transport disasters in recent months that have killed
several hundred people.


Corruption claims also dog two ministers, prompting calls for
their removal, while authorities have failed to curb the spread
of deadly bird flu, and anger is mounting over compensation
payments to victims of a mud volcano which swamped villages in
East Java.


After his meeting Saturday, Hendarman Supanji, deputy to the
attorney general on special crime, said he would be tasked with
enforcing Indonesian law, prompting local media to suggest he
would become attorney general.


Yudhoyono also met Andi Matalatta, parliamentary chief of the
leading Golkar party.


"We were discussing law enforcement in Indonesia," Matalatta told
ElShinta without elaborating.


The meetings are expected to continue Saturday and possibly
Sunday.

