

German President Horst Koehler will decide next week on a plea
for clemency by a jailed ex-militant of the Red Army Faction
guerrilla group, a spokesman said Saturday.


Koehler, who met Christian Klar in prison Friday, will make his
decision "in the course of the week to come", the presidency
spokesman told AFP, confirming a report in Monday's Der Spiegel
magazine.


Klar, 54, has served more than 24 years of a life term for his
role in several murders committed at the end of the 1970s with
the urban guerrilla group.


The clemency decision is highly-anticipated in Germany where
memories of Red Army Faction (RAF) attacks still stir up strong
emotions.


However, the move is strongly opposed by most of the families of
his victims and some political figures because he has never
expressed regret for the murders.


Klar was jailed for a series of killings, including the shooting
of federal prosecutor Siegfried Buback, during the RAF's violent
campaign against what it called the oppressive capitalist West
German state and elite in the 1970s and early 1980s.


He is eligible for early release in 2009 but has appealed for
clemency to get out sooner.


Der Spiegel said that some officials in the conservative
Christian Social Union (CSU), the sister party of Chancellor
Angela Merkel's Christian Democratic Union of which Koehler is a
member, have threatened to oppose his reelection in 2009 if he
were to grant the clemency appeal.


Last month, an ex-RAF radical came forward to say Klar was not
involved in Buback's murder and blamed another man.


The RAF is suspected of killing 34 people before laying down its
arms in 1992. It officially disbanded six years later.

