

Manchester United moved to within touching distance of the
Premiership title after Cristiano Ronaldo's penalty clinched a
1-0 win at crisis-ridden Manchester City on Saturday.


United are now eight points ahead of second placed Chelsea and
will be crowned champions for the first time since 2003 if Jose
Mourinho's men fail to beat Arsenal on Sunday.


Even if the Blues win at Arsenal, Sir Alex Ferguson's side can
seal the league title on Wednesday if they avoid defeat against
Chelsea.


United had been torn to shreds by AC Milan as they crashed out of
the Champions League in midweek but, thanks to Ronaldo and a late
penalty save from Edwin van der Sar, they produced the perfect
response against their bitter local rivals at Eastlands.


The league leaders took the lead with a 34th minute penalty that
was especially sweet for Ronaldo.


Michael Ball had been guilty of a vicious stamp on Ronaldo early
in the first half, but the Portugal winger was quick to exact
revenge as he drew the left- back into a rash lunge that earned a
penalty.


Ronaldo picked himself up to send Andreas Isaksson the wrong way
from the spot for his 23rd goal of a superb season that has seen
him voted double Footballer of the Year.


City - who are subject to two rival bids to buy them out and also
had to suspend their star midfielder Joey Barton earlier in the
week after a training ground altercation with Frenchman Ousmane
Dabo - hadn't scored a home league goal since New Year's Day, but
they had a glorious chance to end that barren run in the 81st
minute when Ball won a soft penalty after colliding with Wes
Brown.


Former England international striker Darius Vassell took the
spot-kick, but his shot struck van der Sar's legs and deflected
to safety as United held on for a potentially decisive victory in
the title race.

