

The outcome of Ireland's May 24 general election is on a knife-
edge with the two coalition alliances vying for power both on 39
percent support, according to the first opinion poll of the
campaign Saturday.


The Irish Examiner newspaper Lansdowne Market Research poll,
conducted on Tuesday and Wednesday after Prime Minister Bertie
Ahern called the election last Sunday, shows government support
sliding and a resurgent opposition alliance.


Ahern's centre-right Fianna Fail-Progressive Democrats coalition,
which is seeking a record third term, is battling to retain power
against a centre-left Fine Gael-Labour alliance.


The poll shows support for Fianna Fail at 37 percent, a drop of
two points since a corresponding survey from last September.


The Progressive Democrats has slumped by four points to two
percent.


In contrast, Fine Gael is up two points to 26 percent and Labour
has jumped by three points to 13 percent.


The combined five-point increase for the opposition alliance,
coupled with the six percent fall in support for the government
parties, has resulted in an 11 percent swing since last
September.


The Examiner says that if the poll scenario were to be repeated
on election day, the balance of power would rest with the Green
Party which remains stable on six percent.


Ahern, nicknamed the "Teflon Taoiseach" (prime minister) because
controversy does not stick to him, has been dogged by a resurgent
row about payments he received from businessmen in the early
1990s when he was finance minister.


The judicial tribunal investigating payments to politicians
suspended its hearings last Monday after the election was called.


Its hearing had been expected to deal with the payments to Ahern
and his former partner Celia Larkin in its next module. Ahern is
separated but not divorced from his wife Miriam.


Ahern says no wrong-doing was involved in the payments and he
plans to clarify the situation before the tribunal.

