

Israeli Defence Minister Amir Peretz rejected on Saturday calls
for his immediate resignation after a scathing report on the
Lebanon war, but reiterated his plans to change jobs by next
month.


Peretz said he intended to leave the defence ministry after his
Labour party votes for a new leader on May 28. He would then
demand the finance ministry, currently held by Prime Minister
Ehud Olmert's Kadima party.


"I intend, immediately after the (Labour party) primaries, to
carry out far- reaching changes. I intend to return the defence
portfolio to Kadima and take the finance portfolio," he said in
an interview with Channel 2 television.


"A decision to resign today could lead to dangerous spiraling in
the political system," Peretz said.


Peretz and Olmert have been under massive pressure to step down
following the release of an interim report into the government's
conduct of last summer's war in Lebanon, which said the two men
were responsible for "severe failures."


Labour, Kadima's main coalition partner, is considering
withdrawing from the coalition, and the party's central committee
is due to discuss the crisis at a meeting on May 13.


That could leave Olmert without the required majority in
parliament and pave the way for opposition Likud chief Benjamin
Netanyahu to try to form a government.


Peretz stated several months ago that he intended to demand the
finance portfolio in exchange for the defence ministry in order
to lead the way on social reforms Labour called for during last
year's elections.

