

British experts were joining Portuguese police Saturday in the
search for a missing English three-year-old girl who vanished
from her holiday hotel room in the Algarve as her parents
appealed for her safe return.


Investigators were due to be joined by a British team during the
day, to help in the search for Madeleine McCann amid fears that
she may have been snatched while her parents were out to dinner.


Many of Saturday's Portuguese newspapers carried pictures of the
little girl on their front pages, along with a message from her
distraught parents Gerry and Kate McCann.


"We cannot describe the anguish and despair we are feeling", they
said in a statement read to reporters late Friday.


And they urged anyone with information about her disappearance to
contact the Portuguese authorities to ensure her safe-and-sound
return.


Police were joined Friday by firefighters and maritime police,
backed up by a helicopter, as well as locals and tourists, in the
search for the missing child.


Her parents, from near Leicester in the English Midlands, said
they had left her asleep with her two-year-old twin brothers at
the resort near the village of Praia da Luz in the Algarve on
Thursday evening.


They had checked back regularly from the nearby restaurant, and
when they returned at around 10 p.m. (2000 GMT) they discovered
their daughter missing and the door of the room and a window
open.


Gill Renwick, a family friend, told British television channel
GMTV Friday that her parents were certain that Madeleine had been
abducted. "They were just watching the hotel room and going back
every half-hour."


"She's obviously been taken as she couldn't have gone out on her
own and the shutters had been forced open," she said.


Britain's ambassador to Portugal John Buck has gone to the area
to help the girls' parents, the embassy said.

