

An African Union representative arrived in the Comoros Saturday
on a fact- finding trip, an official said, after fighting between
the army and dissidents on the island of Anjouan killed two
soldiers.


AU special envoy Jose Francisco Madeira was received by Comoros
President Ahmed Abdallah Sambi in the capital Moroni, a top
government official, Said Ali, said.


Madeira is expected to visit Anjouan, one of three islands of the
Union of Comoros in the Indian Ocean, on Sunday.


The visit came as federal government spokesman Abdourahim Said
Bakara said two soldiers had died in the clashes.


Fighting broke out on Wednesday in Anjouan between army soldiers
and forces loyal to former president Mohamed Bacar, who has
refused to accept a constitutional court ruling that his term
expired and he must step down.


Speaking to reporters here on Saturday, the interim head of the
national army, Lieutenant Colonel Salimo Mohamed Amiri, said
Bacar's men had "seized the moment to carry out a long-prepared
offensive."


His predecessor was sacked over mismanagement of the Anjouan
crisis.


Amiri said that on Wednesday, about 75 army soldiers based in
Anjouan had fought some 1,200 men loyal to Bacar. They held them
off for two hours but were bombarded when they tried to leave the
island by speedboat, he said.


Anjouan was calm on Friday and Saturday.


Presidential elections are planned for all three Comoros islands
on June 10 and 24. Bacar, who came to power in a 2001 coup before
being elected president in March 2002, will be standing again
this year.


The constitutional court said last week Bacar had completed his
five-year term and must step down. An interim president has been
appointed until June's polls.


Anjouan declared independence from the Union of Comoros, a former
French colony that has endured 19 coups or attempted coups in the
past 30 years, in 1997, but rejoined it in 2001.

