

A team of three British police detectives arrived in Portugal
Saturday to help track down a suspected kidnapper believed to
have abducted a British toddler.


British ambassador John Buck told reporters the officers would
act as a liaison between the family of the girl and Portuguese
police, and between the Portuguese and British police.


The front pages of many of Saturday's Portuguese newspapers
carried pictures of the three-year-old girl, Madeleine McCann,
who disappeared from her holiday hotel room in the southern
Algarve beach area late Thursday.


"We have details that corroborate the kidnapping theory," deputy
police chief Guilhermino Encarnacao told journalists. "I am
calling on the abductor to return the girl."


More than 150 Portuguese police were searching for the girl, and
have interviewed more than 30 people.


They say they have a photofit image of the suspected kidnapper,
but declined to release it for now to avoid endangering the girl.
Investigators believe she is still in Portugal.


The girl's parents, Gerry and Kate McCann, a surgeon and a doctor
from Leicester in the English Midlands and both aged 38, said
they had left her asleep with her two-year-old twin sister and
bother at the resort near the village of Praia da Luz in the
Algarve on Thursday evening.


They had checked back regularly from the nearby restaurant, and
when they returned at around 10 p.m. (2000 GMT) they discovered
their daughter missing and the door of the room and a window
open.


They have made an anguished plea for public help to find their
daughter.

