

A Kenya Airways airliner that crashed Saturday after taking off
from Douala airport in Cameroon on a flight to Nairobi, was
carrying 79 Africans, 21 Asians, seven Europeans, one US citizen
and six others, the company said Saturday.


Kenya Airways said a total of 114 people were on board the Boeing
737-800 travelling from Abidjan to Nairobi, via Douala, including
105 passengers and nine crew.


The nationalities are: 34 Cameroonians, 15 Indians, nine Kenyan
crew members, seven South Africans, six Chinese, six Ivorians,
six Nigerians, five Britons, three Nigerians, two from the
Central African Republic, two from the Democratic Republic of
Congo, one US citizen, one Swiss, one Swede, one Malian, one
Togolese, one Ghanaian, one from the Comoros, one from Mauritius,
one Senegalese, one Congolese from Congo-Brazzaville, one
Egyptian, one Tanzanian, and one from Burkina Faso.


The nationalities of six others were not yet known, according to
a statement from Kenya Airways.


Air traffic controllers picked up a distress signal from the
missing airliner just after it took off from Douala airport in
Cameroon, a source close to the Agency for the Safety of Aerial
Navigation in Africa told AFP.


Two Cameroonian army helicopters began searching a wide area
south of the line between Douala and the capital Yaounde, 250
kilometres (180 miles) to the east, to try to locate the
aircraft.


Air France-KLM owns 26 percent stake in Kenya Airways, which
prides itself on its reputation as a reliable African air
company.

