

A Kenya Airways airliner that crashed Saturday after taking off
from Douala airport in Cameroon on a flight to Nairobi, carried
passengers from around the world, the company said Saturday.


Kenya Airways said a total of 114 people were on board the Boeing
737-800 travelling from Abidjan to Nairobi, via Douala, including
105 passengers and nine crew.


Of those 83 were Africans, 21 Asians, seven Europeans, one US
citizen and two others.


The chief executive officer for Kenya Airways, Titus Naikuni,
told a news conference late Saturday that all but two of the
planes passengers had been identified.


Kenya Airways said those on board included 35 Cameroonians, 15
Indians, the nine Kenyan crew, seven South Africans, and six each
from China, Ivory Coast and Nigeria.


The plane also carried five Britons, three from Niger and two
each from the Central African Republic, the Democratic Republic
of Congo, Equatorial Guinea and Mauritius.


There was also one passenger from each of the United States,
Switzerland, Sweden, Mali, Togo, Ghana, the Comoros, Senegal, the
Congo Republic, Egypt, Tanzania, Mauritius and Burkina Faso.


The company has not officially confirmed the plane disaster.
However, an official with the Kenyan Civil Aviation Authority,
asking not to be named, said the plane had indeed crashed.


Air traffic controllers picked up a distress signal from the
missing airliner just after it took off from Douala airport in
Cameroon, a source close to the Agency for the Safety of Aerial
Navigation in Africa told AFP.


Helicopters and police searched Saturday for the airliner that
was feared to have crashed in dense forest in southern Cameroon.


Air France-KLM owns 26 percent stake in Kenya Airways, which
prides itself on its reputation as a reliable African air
company.

