

US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice's meeting in Egypt with
her Syrian counterpart Walid Muallem was proof that Washington
has reached an impasse in Iraq, a Syrian minister said on
Saturday.


Thursday's meeting between the two foreign ministers on the
sidelines of an international conference on Iraq in Sharm el-
Sheikh was "proof of the recognition by the US administration
that it finds itself in an impasse in Iraq," Expatriates Minister
Bussaina Shaaban told a news conference.


"It is also proof that the American administration needs the
cooperation of Iraq's neighbours and of several other countries,"
she said.


"It changes nothing with regard to Syria's stance on the unity
and territorial integrity" of Iraq, Shaaban said. "The main
solution is establishing a timetable for withdrawal" of US forces
there.


Rice and Muallem held their landmark talks on the sidelines of a
conference on Iraqi stability at the Egyptian Red Sea resort.


Washington accuses Damascus of letting anti-US insurgents cross
from Syria to Iraq, and of supporting terrorist groups in Lebanon
and in the Palestinian territories.


"I made clear that we don't want to have a difficult relationship
with Syria, but there needs to be some basis for a better
relationship," Rice said after the talks which Muallem called
"frank and constructive."


"We discussed the situation in Iraq and how to achieve stability
and security in Iraq and also bilateral relations," he told
reporters.


The last high-ranking US administration official to meet Syrian
officials was then deputy secretary of state Richard Armitage, in
Damascus in January 2005.


Shaaban held Saturday's news conference to announce that the
Second Congress of Syrian Expatriates will take place in Damascus
on May 12 and 13.

