

Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf said Tuesday that opposition
parties have failed to muster mass support for protests against
his removal of the country's top judge.


Military ruler Musharraf suspended Chief Justice Iftikhar
Muhammad Chaudhry on misconduct charges on March 9, sparking a
wave of protests, including some on Monday when thousands of
people rallied in several cities.


"The nationwide demonstration they planned on Monday failed to
get mass support. Only a few thousand people turned up and people
did not respond to their call," Musharraf told a public rally in
Rawalpindi, near Islamabad.


"They want to create a law and order problem but they have no
public support and people will not allow them to plunge the
country into chaos," added Musharraf, speaking against a backdrop
of a huge picture of himself.


He added that the row over the chief justice was a
"constitutional and judicial problem, and I am confident that
(the Pakistani people) would not let them make it a political
issue."


Monday's protests were organised by the Pakistan People's Party
of former prime minister Benazir Bhutto and a faction of the
Pakistan Muslim League led by another ex-premier, Nawaz Sharif.


Both leaders are in exile.


Lawyers outraged by Chaudhry's dismissal and Islamic hardliners
who oppose Musharraf's support for the US-led "war on terror"
also held the latest in a series of separate demonstrations on
Monday.


Early protests against the sacking turned violent, including in
Islamabad on March 16 when police fired rubber bullets and tear
gas at demonstrators and ransacked the offices of a private
television station.


Further rallies are expected when Chaudhry appears before a panel
of top judges on April 3 to answer the charges against him.
Chaudhry is accused of getting promotions for his son and other
abuses of power, which he denies.

