

A Japanese spy satellite has stopped working due to an electrical
problem, potentially impairing Tokyo's ability to peer anywhere
in the world, officials said Tuesday.


Officials said they were having difficulty repairing the
satellite, which malfunctioned just a month after Japan completed
sending its full set of four spy satellites into space.


The radar satellite, which was put into orbit four years ago, had
not been operational since Sunday due to a problem related to its
battery system, said an official with the Cabinet Satellite
Intelligence Centre.


Japan has four spy satellites in orbit -- two are radar and the
other pair are optical satellites. Each pair gives Tokyo the
ability to spy anywhere on Earth, at least once a day.


The satellites were launched as Japan tries to step up
information gathering on North Korea, which fired a missile over
Japan's main island in 1998 and tested an atom bomb last year.


"If the radar satellite does not come back on again, there might
be areas where we might not be able to conduct radar monitoring
everyday," the Cabinet Office official said, without elaborating
on technical details.


Japanese engineers have been working since Sunday to repair the
problem, he said.


"What we have learned so far is that the problem is very
difficult to solve," he said.


"We believe it has to do with the wear and tear of being put to
use for four years."


Japan is still developing its next radar satellite, which will be
brought into orbit in 2011, the official said.


Japan faced an embarrassing failure in November 2003, when it had
to destroy a rocket carrying a spy satellite 10 minutes after
lift-off because a rocket booster failed to separate.


Japan has been expanding its space operations and has set a goal
of sending an astronaut to the moon by 2020.

