

The United Nations declared an end Tuesday to one of the biggest
ever repatriation programmes which has seen some 400,000 refugees
who fled Angola's 27-year civil war return to their homeland.


The head of the UN refugee agency (UNHCR) Antonio Guterres was in
the Angolan capital Luanda for the formal end to the project.


"The repatriation of the Angolans was one of the biggest ever
operations by the UNHCR in the world," said Guterres, who also
urged the international community not to turn its back on the
southwest African country now that peace has taken hold five
years after the end of the conflict.


"It's vital that the international community understands the
necesssity of supporting Angola, in spite of the fact that Angola
has significant natural resources.


"It's not only a question of financial help. We can bring all
sorts of other kinds of help to the Angolans."


Angola is experiencing an economic boom with a major expansion of
oil exports but the devastation suffered during the civil war
between 1975 and 2002 means that the vast majority of its
citizens remain desperately poor.


An estimated 500,000 people were killed in the war which caused
some 40 billion dollars in economic damage, according to Angolan
President Jose Eduardo dos Santos.


Joao Baptista Kussumua, Angola's social welfare minister, said it
was an historic day but acknowledged that hard integration work
still lay ahead.


"We have written a new page in the history of our country," said
the minister.


Some 600,000 Angolans sought refuge in South Africa, Zambia, the
Democratic Republic of Congo and Namibia during the war and
Kussumua said those who had chosen to stay abroad for the moment
were welcome to return at any time.


"The end of this operation should not prevent those who who
prefer to stay in the country where they have been living not to
return to Angola at a later stage," he said.

