

The US navy said on Tuesday it is staging major war games in the
Gulf with two aircraft carriers for the first time since the 2003
invasion of Iraq, at a time of heightened tension with Iran.


The manoeuvres involve the USS John C. Stennis, the USS Dwight D.
Eisenhower and their battle groups.


They are being held as tensions run high between the West and the
Islamic republic over Tehran's nuclear drive and the capture last
week of 15 British marines and sailors in a waterway between Iran
and Iraq in the northern Gulf.


"Two air wings from the aircraft carriers will conduct air
warfare exercises while the surface components will conduct
exercises in three general disciplines: anti-submarine, anti-
surface and mine warfare," the Fifth Fleet said in a statement.


"This exercise demonstrates the importance of both strike groups'
ability to plan and conduct dual task force operations as part of
the US long-standing commitment to maintaining maritime security
and stability in this region."


The Fifth Fleet is based in Bahrain, an island state which lies
across the Gulf from Iran.


The United States announced in January that it plans to keep the
two carrier battle groups in the Gulf for months to step up the
US military presence in the oil-rich region.


US President George W. Bush said the moves were aimed at
bolstering security and protecting US interests in the Middle
East, while Defence Secretary Robert Gates said the deployment
was a signal to Iran.


"It will be the first time since '03 that we've had two carriers
in the region," said a senior US military official, referring to
the year of the US-led invasion of Iraq.


The USS John Stennis group with its 6,500-strong force, which has
been in the Gulf of Oman since February 19, entered Gulf waters
on Tuesday escorted by the guided-missile carrier USS Antietam,
the Fifth Fleet said.

