

Syrian dissidents Michel Kilo and Mahmud Issa, under arrest since
May 2006, were charged in court on Tuesday with speading false
information and sowing discord, a rights group said.


Ammar Qorabi, head of the National Organisation for Human Rights
in Syria, said they were also charged in a Damascus criminal
court with "weakening national sentiment".


Issa was separately accused of exposing Syria to the threat of
attack.


The judge at the hearing, which was also attended by diplomats
from the German and Netherlands embassies in Damascus, said he
would authorise Kilo to meet his family, including his wife,
Qorabi said.


The charges against the men, whose trial was adjourned until
April 18, carry a possible jail term of at least three years.


Kilo, who is Syria's leading opposition figure, was brought
before a military court on March 6 along with communist activist
Issa on a charge of "inciting prisoners to support the Beirut-
Damascus declaration".


The petition, which both men have signed, calls for an overhaul
of ties between the two states and for Syrian recognition of the
independence of Lebanon, where Damascus was the major powerbroker
for three decades until 2005.


In the criminal case, they have been accused of provoking
religious and racial dissent as well as insulting official
institutions, with the two trials running in parallel.


Kilo and Issa, who were rounded up with eight other opposition
figures, lost appeals in December for charges of publishing false
information and provoking dissent to be dropped.


Out of the eight, Kilo, Issa and human rights activist Anwar
Bunni, who is a lawyer, are still being held.

