

Japan on Tuesday deployed a small defence team to Nepal to
monitor the country's ceasefire, the first mission since
officially pacifist Tokyo created a full- fledged defence
ministry.


Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's cabinet decided at a meeting to
dispatch six personnel to Nepal to observe arms control for a
year, a defence ministry official said.


The six -- unarmed military personnel -- will help monitor
weapons and soldiers as part of the UN mission observing the
accord that ended the Himalayan kingdom's bloody decade-long
Maoist insurgency.


Japan, which was forced by the United States to renounce its
right to armed forces after World War II, has been slowly
expanding its military operations overseas.


In January, Japan created a full-fledged defence ministry for the
first time since 1945, upgrading the former Defence Agency which
was lower in rank than cabinet-level ministries.


With the change, Abe's conservative government also listed
overseas peacekeeping activities as a mission for Japan's
military, which are known as the Self- Defence Forces.


Previously, deployments abroad had been considered
"extraordinary," leading the government to seek parliamentary
approval.


"This is the first time we will deploy the Self-Defence Force
abroad since (peacekeeping) became one of the main missions for
the troops," Defence Minister Fumio Kyuma told reporters.


"We have to pay careful attention to their security," he said.


Japan is a major donor to Nepal.


"I believe the dispatch will greatly contribute to a stronger tie
between the two countries," top government spokesman Yasuhisa
Shiozaki said.


"The mission means a lot to maintain peace and security in the
international community, particularly the South Asian region," he
told reporters.


In Japan's most prominent deployment, it sent some 600 troops to
Iraq on a reconstruction mission. The soldiers returned last year
without suffering any casualties or firing a shot.

