

The Czech government on Tuesday called on Belarus to immediately
release some 70 protesters detained by security forces in
connection with a demonstration against President Alexander
Lukashenko's regime.


"We call for the immediate release of all political prisoners and
individuals detained during (the demonstrations) and for the
respect of human rights and democratic values in Belarus," the
Czech foreign ministry said in a statement on Tuesday.


Police and paratroopers on Sunday prevented up to 1,500
Lukashenko opponents from protesting in the same Minsk square
where unprecedented rallies shook the former Soviet republic a
year ago.


Opposition groups said that around 50 people were detained during
the demonstration and that a similar number had been taken into
custody a day earlier in what appeared to be pre-emptive arrests
aimed at crippling the protests.


"The unfolding events once again confirmed the basic non-
democratic nature of Alexander Lukashenko's regime, which
continues to refuse serious discussions with the representatives
of political opposition and civic movements," the ministry said.


Lukashenko, who has ruled Belarus since 1994 and is dubbed
"Europe's last dictator" in some Western capitals, allows no
criticism in the state-controlled media and has imposed severe
restrictions on opposition rallies.


His re-election last year was welcomed in Moscow but
international observers said the vote was rigged and Western
countries imposed sanctions on Lukashenko and his entourage after
a wave of arrests of protesters.

