

The Organisation of Economic Cooperation and Development on
Tuesday welcomed two new Chinese laws as a step forward in
promoting a more transparent investment climate.


The Enterprise Income Tax Law would erase preferential rates
enjoyed by foreign companies, while the Property Law would
provide new protection for the private sector, the OECD said in a
statement.


"(The Enterprise Income Tax Law) ends the uncertainty that has
surrounded this policy since China's accession to the World Trade
Organisation at the end of 2001," the OECD said.


The 30-member club of industrialised nations said it had
previously warned China against excessive reliance on lower taxes
and other special incentives to attract investment as a
substitute for establishing a broad enabling environment for
investment.


Such an environment should be characterised by "openness, non-
discrimination, transparency and effective rule of law," the OECD
said.


"(The Property Law) enshrines in law, and reportedly elaborates
in detail, the landmark change to China's state constitution in
2004 to include protection of private property," it said.


"This is a welcome step forward in establishing a firm basis for
the protection of investors, both domestic and foreign."


But it warned that cases might emerge where investors had
acquired land or other assets from local governments that were
later found to have taken it over illegally, creating uncertainty
for the companies concerned.


"We are confident that the Chinese government will put in place
measures to deal with these and similar issues," the OECD said.

