

The head of French nickel producer Eramet said on Tuesday that
the group was less vulnerable to a takeover than other companies
in the sector because it had a unified shareholding structure.


"We have an extremely solid shareholder base as three parties
represent 70 percent of the capital," Eramet chairman Jacques
Bacardats told AFP during an international nickel conference here
in the French territory of New Caledonia.


He said the three principal shareholders were the Duval family,
with 37 percent, the French nuclear group Areva, representing the
French government, with 26 percent, and the STCPI, grouping
provices in New Caledonia, with 5.0 percent.


But Bacardats acknowledged that "governments change", and that
the state's future position on the company remained an "unknown,"
particularly as a shareholder pact linking Areva and the Duval
family is to expire in June.


French presidential elections are scheduled for April and May
followed by a legislative poll. The pact between the Duval family
and Areva is renewed annually.


In the face of a price surge and diminishing output, the global
mining industry underwent substantial consolidation in 2006,
notably through takeovers that in some cases have given birth to
huge groups.


The latest such venture took place on Monday when the Swiss
mining enterprise Xstrata offered 4.0 billion dollars (2.9
billion euros) for Canadian producer LionOre.


Eramet, considered a mid-level company with capitalisation of 3.5
billion dollars, is seen as a potential takeover target.


The company employs 14,000 people. In 2006 it had sales of 3.056
billion euros, an increase of 12.7 percent over 2005.

