

Bangladesh's army chief launched a scathing attack against the
country's corrupt politicians Tuesday, saying they had to be
rooted out in the graft-ridden country if the nation was to move
forward.


"It is time to ... fight against injustice, terrorism and
corruption, as well as corrupt politicians," Lieutenant General
Moeen U Ahmed told veterans of the 1971 independence war at a
gathering in Dhaka.


"Through the 36 years after independence, politicians gave us
nothing good, not even to give due recognition to the national
leaders," Moeen added, referring to independence leader Sheikh
Mujibur Rahman, also the country's first president.


Bangladesh has been under emergency rule by a military-backed
interim government since January 11.


The new caretaker government, headed by former central bank
governor Fakhruddin Ahmed, has pledged to clean up Bangladesh's
notoriously corrupt politics in order to hold credible elections.


"Politicians divided the country by their feuding while indulging
in corrupt practices. Now the time has come to reunite the
country and try to deliver the benefits of independence," Mooen
said, according to a government press release.


As part of a massive graft crackdown, scores of high-profile
politicians, including former ministers with links to both the
main parties and the outgoing prime minister's son, have been
detained on corruption allegations.


President Iajuddin Ahmed imposed the emergency on January 11. At
the same time he stepped down as head of the previous caretaker
government and cancelled disputed polls which were scheduled for
January 22.


The main opposition Awami League had said it would boycott the
ballot, accusing the outgoing Bangladesh Nationalist Party (BNP)
of trying to rig the election.

