

Australia's Leisel Jones swam the second fastest time in history
to make it back-to-back world 100-metre breaststroke titles with
victory over American rival Tara Kirk here Tuesday.


Jones, swimming's dominant female breaststroker, was under her
own world record pace for the first 50m, before touching in one
minute 05.72 seconds to prevent an American clean sweep of all
five events on the third night of the championship programme.


'Lethal' Leisel, only the second swimmer to win back-to-back
world titles in the event, shaved 0.53secs off her championship
record (1:06.25) from her win in Montreal two years ago.


"I was rushing to get some more speed when I saw Tara out of the
corner of my eye. I got a bit distracted," Jones said. "It was
good she was there. She pushed me.


"I felt a lot of pressure because the US already had four gold
medals and three world records, so I had to do something for the
Aussies."


Kirk, who was fastest into the final, took second in 1:06.34 with
Ukraine's Anna Khlistunova third in 1:07.27.


It was 21-year-old Jones' fourth successive medal in the event at
the worlds, having won silver at Fukuoka (2001), bronze at
Barcelona (2003) and gold at Montreal (2005).


She will attempt to become the only swimmer to win the double
breaststroke crown at two consecutive world championships when
she swims in the 200m breaststroke heats on Thursday.


Jones has turned her career around since the 2004 Athens
Olympics, where she finished with silver and bronze in the
breaststroke events after going in burdened as the favourite.


She changed coaches soon after and has since gone on to smash
world records in the 100 and 200 metres, as well as winning three
gold medals at the 2005 world championships.


Jones raised the bar for her rivals when she twice set new 100m
breaststroke world records (1:05.09) last year, as well as
swimming the fastest 200m breaststroke (2:20.54) in history.


It puts her on the verge of taking the records into the
unchartered waters of 1:04 and 2:19.

