

Iran's central bank governor Ebrahim Sheibany Tuesday described
fresh sanctions imposed by the United Nations as merely
"symbolic" ones which would not affect the country's economy.


"It has no effect because it is not related to our economy,"
Sheibany told AFP on the sidelines of an Islamic finance forum
here.


"That refers only to some symbolic things like, for example, they
are putting some sanctions over arms to other countries," he
said.


The United Nations Security Council on Saturday imposed new
economic and trade sanctions on Iran after the country ignored
repeated ultimatums to suspend uranium enrichment.


The UN resolution blocks all Iranian arms exports and freezes the
overseas assets of 28 additional officials and institutions
linked to Iran's nuclear and ballistic missile programmes.


It also restricts financial aid or loans to Tehran and sets a
fresh 60-day deadline for Iran to comply with UN demands or face
"further appropriate measures."


"We are not a main producer or exporter of arms to other
countries, so I can say it has not really an adverse effect on
our economy," said Sheibany.


Shrugging off the sanctions, the central bank governor said Iran
was "quite used to that" and cited previous bans, including 1996
sanctions introduced by the United States against firms
conducting major business with Iran.


"The United States does not work with us and we do not care,
because there are other countries and we are doing business with
them. They are hurting themselves," he said.


Sheibany also said Iran in the past five years had progressively
reduced the percentage of its assets held in US dollars.


"We have already scattered our reserves, of course, all over the
world. Our dollar assets now are small in size, about 20 percent.
Earlier on, the dollar share was much bigger -- say, 80 percent,"
he said.


"Now we just keep what we need for current transactions."

