

An unusual exercise involving two US aircraft carrier strike
groups in the Gulf is aimed at reassuring friends and allies, not
further raising tensions with Iran, a Pentagon spokesman said
Tuesday.


The spokesman also denied that the two day exercise involving the
aircraft carriers USS Dwight D. Eisenhower and USS John S.
Stennis is in response to the seizure by Iran of 15 British
sailors and marines.


"We are not interested in confrontation in the Gulf," said Bryan
Whitman, a Pentagon spokesman.


"The fact of the matter is -- and the secretary has talked about
this repeatedly -- we have interest in the stability and security
in the Gulf and the United States continues to reassure our
allies in the region that we are good partners," he said.


Exercises involving two carrier strike groups are unusual because
two are rarely in the same area at the same time.


President George W. Bush ordered a second carrier to the Gulf in
January amid a mounting diplomatic confrontation with Iran over
its uranium enrichment program and US suspicions that it is bent
on developing nuclear weapons.


The second carrier raised the US naval presence in the Gulf to
its highest level since US invasion of Iraq.


But US Defense Secretary Robert Gates and other top
administration officials have repeatedly denied that the United
States has plans to attack Iran.


The US Fifth Fleet, based in Bahrain, said two air wings from the
aircraft carrier will conduct air warfare exercises while
warships from the strike groups practice anti-submarine, anti-
surface and mine warfare.

