

Japanese police Tuesday issued an arrest warrant for a man after
the body of a young British woman was found buried in sand at a
bathtub in his apartment, officials said.


The 22-year-old woman, identified by police as Lindsay Ann
Hawker, worked in Japan as an English-language teacher but failed
to report to work Sunday, leading her school to call for a search
to find her.


Police found her body covered in sand in a disconnected bath on
the balcony of an apartment in suburban Tokyo, a police spokesman
said. Police said they would soon conduct an autopsy to determine
the cause of death.


Jiji Press said one of her hands was sticking out of the sand,
while other reports said her body was naked.


Police later issued an arrest warrant for Tatsuya Ichihashi, 28,
who lived in the apartment, on charges of abandoning a body. The
relationship between Ichihashi and Hawker was not immediately
known.


Japanese media reports said that when police officers approached
Ichihashi as they visited his apartment, he dashed for escape
from questioning.


The British embassy confirmed the body was of the missing Briton
and said it was cooperating with the probe.


"The police are investigating. The ambassador has been to liaise
with the chief of police," an embassy spokesman said.


The case comes seven years after the disappearance of another
young British woman, Lucie Blackman. The 21-year-old bar hostess
was found seven months later, dismembered and buried in a seaside
cave.


The Blackman case made headlines in Britain and Japan, with
British Prime Minister Tony Blair personally calling for
cooperation on the investigation during a visit to Japan.


Police arrested a former property developer, Joji Obara, in
relation to Blackman's death. His trial is ongoing and he has
pleaded not guilty. A verdict is expected next month.


Obara is charged with abduction, assaults resulting in death,
mutilation and abandonment of a corpse, but not actual murder. He
faces life imprisonment.

