

Legislators grilled Pakistan's cricket chief Tuesday over why
lawyers were not sent to Jamaica when police interviewed players
after the murder of national coach Bob Woolmer.


Pakistan Cricket Board chairman Naseem Ashraf was also asked by
the senate committee for sports about the team's poor performance
at the World Cup, where Pakistan were dumped out by Ireland.


Senator Anwar Baig, a member of the committee, said "we asked the
chairman why no legal assistance was provided to the players in
Jamaica when they were facing the investigation."


"Ashraf said the board will do it in future if required," Baig
told AFP after the nearly two-hour hearing in Islamabad.


Jamaican police questioned the whole team once and captain
Inzamam-ul-Haq, caretaker coach Mushtaq Ahmed and manager Talat
Ali twice after Woolmer's death. The squad also gave DNA samples
and fingerprints.


Ashraf said in an opening statement to the committee that if any
player was required by Jamaican police for further investigations
the PCB would provide him with full legal assistance, committee
sources said.


He also reiterated to the committee that no Pakistani players or
officials were involved in the murder or in match-fixing.


Ashraf blamed the poor performance of the Pakistani players for
their World Cup exit.


Woolmer was found strangled in his hotel in Jamaica hours after
Ireland's shock win over the highly-fancied Pakistanis, leading
to suspicions that match-fixing gangs may have been involved.


Vice captain Younis Khan and leading batsman Mohammad Yousuf
arrived in the southern port city of Karachi late on Monday, a
Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) official told AFP on condition of
anonymity.


Others, including Inzamam, are expected home from a stopover in
London late Tuesday or overnight, the official said.


Pakistani police said they had taken security measures for the
players in order to avoid any problems with angry fans on their
return to their cricket-obsessed homeland.

