

Knut, the polar bear cub who survived rejection by his mother,
has become a marketing phenomenon in Germany.


Thousands of extra visitors flocked to Berlin zoo at the weekend
to get a glimpse of the little bear -- and many took cuddly toy
versions of Knut home with them.


The zoo sold 2,400 of the toys at the weekend and is rushing
thousands more into production to re-stock its souvenir shop and
meet orders from Austria and the United States.


German confectionery maker Haribo plans to add a new Knut-shaped
design to its existing range of jelly bear sweets by the end of
the week.


"We are reacting to a strong demand from parents and children,"
said Haribo spokesman Marco Alfter.


And the German version of Internet auction site e-Bay had more
than 200 Knut items for sale on Tuesday.


The Berlin zoo has already copyrighted the Knut name and is
planning a range of further related products, but stresses that
the profits will be ploughed back into animal conservation.


"The proceeds will be used for the benefit of the zoo and the
protection of species," the zoo's marketing manager Vivian Kreft
said on Tuesday.


Knut hit the headlines this month when German media whipped up an
outcry after an animal activist was quoted as saying that he
should have been put down after he and his brother were rejected
by their mother following their birth in December.


Claims by the activist that he was misquoted have been lost in
the ensuing media storm.


The marketing men, however, see one problem with the appeal of
their cuddly new star: he is growing fast.


Knut currently weighs in at nine kilogrammes (19 pounds), but
fully grown polar bear males can top the scales at 600
kilogrammes.

