

Japan on Tuesday signed a free trade deal with Chile, its first
such pact with a South American nation that will eliminate
tariffs on more than 90 percent of trade.


Japan quickly sealed the deal with Chile, which had already
signed a free trade agreement with China in 2005.


Chile is Japan's biggest provider of coal and provides Asia's
largest economy with a quarter of its salmon.


Japanese Foreign Minister Taro Aso and his Chilean counterpart
Alejandro Foxley signed the agreement in a joint ceremony in
Tokyo.


"By accelerating and developing a strategic economic alliance in
various fields between Japan and Chile, Japan expects that both
our economies will be vitalised markedly," a Japanese foreign
ministry statement said.


Japan, the world's second largest economy and a major exporter,
has been seeking a growing number of free trade deals as global
liberalisation talks languish.


Since signing its first agreement with Singapore in 2002, Japan
has sealed deals or their framework with Brunei, Indonesia,
Mexico, Malaysia, the Philippines and Thailand.


It is also in negotiations with India, South Korea and Gulf
states and next month will open talks with Australia.


The pact with Chile will eliminate tariffs on some 92 percent of
trade but will not extend to sensitive farm produce such as rice,
which Japan strongly protects.


Under the deal, Santiago will immediately lift its six percent
tariff on Japanese cars and also lift duties on machinery,
electronic equipment and products such as Japanese green tea and
sake rice liquor.


Tokyo in turn will gradually eliminate its three percent tariff
on Chilean copper, its 3.5 percent tariff on Chilean salmon and
its 17.6 percent tax on Chilean wine.

