

Russian President Vladimir Putin sent 80th birthday
congratulations to legendary cellist and conductor Mstislav
Rostropovich on Tuesday, ahead of a Kremlin party in his honour.


In his message, distributed by the Kremlin, Putin dwelt on
Rostropovich's political activities, which had put him sharply at
odds with Soviet-era authorities.


"You have many times proved the truism that art and morality
compliment one another and form an integral whole," Putin said.
"You are known worldwide not only as a brilliant cellist and
eminent conductor but also as a staunch defender of human rights
and uncompromising fighter for democratic ideals."


Rostropovich was hospitalized in February and Russian newspapers
have said he underwent an operation for a liver tumour, from
which he is now convalescing.


About 500 guests were expected at Kremlin party in his honour,
including his pupil the Lithuanian cellist David Geringas,
Japanese conductor Seiji Ozawa, Russian violinist Maxim Vengerov
and Georgian bass Paata Burchuladze.


Official persecution forced Rostropovich into exile in 1974,
after he had defended the Nobel prize-winning writer Alexander
Solzhenitsyn from official abuse.


Rostropovich and his wife, the singer Galina Vishnevksaya, were
stripped of their Soviet citizenship while they were in exile in
Paris in 1978.


After the Soviet collapse, he joined protesters on the front
lines in resisting a 1991 coup by Communist hardliners in Moscow,
being photographed holding a rifle.


Putin recently visited Rostropovich in hospital and gave him an
award for "services to the homeland."

