

EU finance ministers backed plans on Tuesday to curb the powers
of national banking regulators to block mergers in the sector,
which have come under fire over concerns about protectionism.


The new rules aim to reduce the period during which regulators
can scrutinise a deal and tighten the conditions for blocking a
proposed foreign acquisition.


Under existing EU rules, national regulators can block proposed
mergers and acquisitions if they consider that the deal threatens
the "sound and prudent management" of the target company.


The European Commission made proposals last September to tighten
rules on the authority of central banks over bank mergers after
the Italian central bank and Polish regulators were widely seen
as having used their powers to discourage foreign takeovers.


"This directive is necessary because ... unncesseray obstacles
were put forward by national supervisors," EU Internal Markets
Commissioner Charlie McCreevy told journalists.


"The clarity of this directive will help in ensuring that there
is an unhindered way of doing business in acquisitions in the
financial services sector," he added.


Under the new rules, national banking regulators will only be
able review merger deals according to the buyer's reputation,
financial health, the reputation and experience of the new
company's management, respect for EU rules and risks of money-
laundering or terror financing.


They would also have only 60 days instead of three months to
examine such deals and they would be able to suspend a proposed
tie-up only once.


Cross border mergers in the sector are currently a hot topic with
Barclays seeking to tie up with Abn Amro and ING reported to be
seeking a Belgian partner.

