

The European single currency climbed against the dollar on
Tuesday after news that business confidence in Germany bounced
back in March, according to a survey in the eurozone's biggest
economy.


The euro rose to 1.3345 dollars in early European trading, from
1.3330 dollars late in New York on Monday.


The dollar climbed to 118.28 yen in European trade, from 118.09
yen late on Monday.


The widely watched business climate index, calculated each month
by the Munich- based economic research institute Ifo, rose to
107.7 points in March from 107.0 points in February, Ifo said in
a statement.


This month's rise took analysts by surprise because analysts'
consensus forecasts had been for a further decline after the
index fell in both January and February.


"The upside surprise helped push the euro higher," said Stuart
Bennett, senior European economist at Calyon.


The increase put the index just one point away from the record
high of 108.7 points recorded in December.


Analyst Zaki Kada, at Thomson's IFR Markets, added: "It seems
that the recovery in Germany is still intact and is domestically
driven.


"This gives further assurances to European Central Bank to hike
rates further with 4.0 percent around mid-year a very likely
proposition."


The ECB had hiked eurozone borrowing costs to a five-and-a-half-
year high of 3.75 percent earlier this month.


The ECB, known as the guardian of the euro, has raised its
benchmark "refi" refinancing rate seven times in the past 15
months, each time by a quarter of a percentage point.


Dealers are meanwhile looking ahead to testimony by US Federal
Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke on Wednesday.


Market participants will look carefully at testimony by Bernanke
to gauge the outlook of the US economy and the Fed's next moves
on interest rates, dealers said. American borrowing costs stand
at 5.25 percent.


The euro was changing hands at 1.3345 dollars, against 1.3330
dollars on Monday, 157.90 yen (157.44), 0.6785 pounds (0.6769)
and 1.6202 Swiss francs (1.6200).


The dollar stood at 118.28 yen (118.09) and 1.2141 Swiss francs
(1.2154).


The pound was being traded at 1.9656 dollars (1.9691).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold rose to 665.15
dollars per ounce, from 663 dollars late on Monday.

