

Wall Street shares swung lower Tuesday as investors remained
skittish about the US economic outlook and eyed increasing
tensions between Iran and the West.


At 1500 GMT, the Dow Jones Industrial Average traded down 63.29
points (0.51 percent) at 12,405.78 and the Nasdaq composite lost
12.57 points (0.51 percent) to 2,443.06.


The broad-market Standard and Poor's 500 dropped 7.86 points
(0.55 percent) to 1,429.64.


The market was still absorbing a weak report on new US home sales
a day earlier that sparked concerns that the real estate market
has not yet hit bottom.


Adding to those concerns was a softer-than-expected reading on US
consumer confidence, which fueled fears that the housing market
slump might dent consumer spending, which accounts for two-thirds
of US economic activity.


The Conference Board's consumer confidence index fell to 107.2
from 111.2 in February.


"Recent troubles in the housing market have probably weighed on
consumer confidence in March," said Marie-Pierre Ripert,
economist at IXIS Corporate and Investment Bank.


"Even though the relation between consumer confidence and
consumption is quite loose, the recent deterioration in consumer
confidence is consistent with slowing consumption."


Additionally, the tensions over Iran's nuclear program also kept
investors cautious, since it has pushed oil prices to fresh 2007
highs.


"Concern is growing that Iran may blockade the Bay of Hormuz
which would push oil prices up big," said Al Goldman at AG
Edwards. "This must be watched."


New York crude oil futures were down 12 cents at 62.79 after
striking new 2007 highs a day earlier.


Fred Dickson, market strategist at DA Davidson, said the stock
market has been able to weather bad news and that he remains
generally upbeat.


"If yesterday's lousy new home sales report could not tank the
stock market, we have to conclude that a lot of buying power
still remains on the sidelines," Dickson said.


"We are watching events unfold in Iran particularly the detention
of British marines by the Iranian government ... We suspect that
buyers, needing to commit cash reserves, will continue to look
for market dips such as we saw yesterday to put more money to
work."


Among stocks in focus, Bristol-Myers Squibb fell two cents to
27.60 dollars after a news report that a possible takeover by
Sanofi-Aventis was facing opposition within the board of the
French pharmaceutical rival. Sanofi's US shares fell 22 cents to
43.10.


US shares of DaimlerChrysler gained 1.25 to 82.45 amid swirling
rumors of a takeover effort for the US-based Chrysler division of
the German-US automaker.


Microsoft lost 16 cents to 28.06, unable to get a lift from news
that it sold 20 million copies of its new Windows Vista operating
system in February.


Homebuilding group Lennar fell 1.06 to 43.48 after reporting a
drop in earnings resulting from the weak property market.


Bonds traded lower. The yield on the 10-year US Treasury bond
increased to 4.603 percent from 4.587 percent Monday and that on
the 30-year bond rose to 4.810 percent against 4.783 percent.
Bond yields and prices move in opposite directions.

