

European stock markets rebounded slightly on Tuesday, helped by
fresh takeover talk and following a late recovery on Wall Street
overnight, dealers said.


Meanwhile a vast transatlantic stock market emerged when the New
York Stock Exchange won control of pan-European market operator
Euronext, creating an entity worth 29 billion dollars (21.7
billion euros) linking trading platforms in six cities.


The two markets said in a statement that the NYSE had acquired
91.42 percent of Euronext capital and 92.22 percent of the voting
rights according to a provisional tally of shareholder
acceptances.


In late morning trade, London's FTSE 100 index of leading shares
edged up by 0.08 percent to 6,297.20 points.


Frankfurt's DAX 30 won 0.37 percent to 6,854.30 points, while in
Paris the CAC 40 was flat at 5,576.55 in early afternoon trade.


The DJ Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone blue chip shares increased
0.16 percent to 4,148.54 points.


The euro stood at 1.3342 dollars.


US shares had closed mixed on Monday after a government report
showed new home sales dived to a near seven-year low last month,
spelling further bad news for the troubled housing sector.


The data hit also European shares, leading to Paris and Frankfurt
indices closing down more than one percent on Monday.


Japanese share prices closed lower Tuesday as investors locked in
recent gains amid jitters over the US housing sector and an
upcoming raft of domestic economic data, dealers said.


In London, clothing retailer Next jumped to the top of the FTSE
100, winning 3.59 percent to 2,308 pence on talk of an imminent
2,500 pence per share bid approach, dealers said.


Elsewhere, miners rallied on sector consolidation hopes and a
spike in commodity prices. BHP Billiton rose 1.26 percent to
1,123 pence and Anglo American climbed 1.18 percent to 2,648
pence.


On Monday Anglo-Swiss mining group Xstrata agreed to buy LionOre
Mining International Ltd, a Canadian nickel and gold miner, for
4.0 billion dollars.


Frankfurt shares meanwhile benefited from news that business
confidence in Germany bounced back in March. Global sportswear
giant Adidas headed the DAX, jumping 4.09 percent to 40.70 euros
on speculation that investor Mike Ashley might try to further
raise his stake in the group to 10 percent, dealers said.


In New York on Monday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average finished
down 0.10 percent at 12,469.07 points. The Dow, however, had
managed to recover somewhat from earlier lows.


The Nasdaq composite added 0.27 percent to 2,455.63 points and
the broad-market Standard and Poor's 500 rose 0.10 percent to
1,437.50.


On Tuesday in Asia, Tokyo's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
ended down 0.90 percent at 17,365.05 points -- ending a five-day
winning streak. Hong Kong's key Hang Seng Index lost to 0.30
percent to finish at 19,706.79.

