

British Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett Tuesday called on Iran
to quickly release 15 detained sailors and allow British
diplomats access to them.


"We have said from the beginning we would like to see this matter
resolved swiftly and peacefully. I hope that can happen soon,"
Beckett told a news conference here after talks with Turkish
Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul.


"First ... we continue to call for not just their safe but speedy
return and second we continue to seek consular access to them for
our diplomats," Beckett said.


The British minister rejected suggestions by Iranian officials
that the 14 men and one woman could face espionage charges. She
reaffirmed Britain's insistence that the group were in Iraqi
waters when detained last Friday.


Earlier Tuesday, British Prime Minister Tony Blair warned Iran
that efforts to secure the release of the sailors would enter a
"different phase" if diplomatic efforts failed.


Asked whether Blair's remarks entailed a military option, Beckett
refused to elaborate, but said that a peaceful resolution would
be best for both sides.


"We will continue...to leave the door open for a constructive
outcome of this difficulty between Iran and the United Kingdom
but it is clear that it is in everyone's interest for this matter
speedily and peacefully to be resolved," she said.


Britain, supported by Iraq, insists that the naval personnel were
conducting "routine" anti-smuggling operations in Iraqi waters
Friday when they were seized at gunpoint in the Shatt al-Arab
waterway in the north of the Gulf.


Iran says they had entered its territorial waters illegally and
the BBC, citing sources, said they were now being held in Tehran,
where they were being interrogated by the Revolutionary Guards.

