

The UN refugee agency said Tuesday that it was concerned about
the number of civilians fleeing fighting in the southern Afghan
province of Helmand.


Some 5,000 displaced families -- about 25,000 people -- in the
region are receiving assistance and supplies including tents,
blankets and clothing from UN agencies, the office of the United
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees said.


"The UNHCR is concerned about the recent displacement of Afghans
due to the ongoing conflict in Afghanistan's southern province of
Helmand," the agency added in a statement.


The aid, which is being delivered either by the agencies
themselves or by local authorities, follows a request from the
governor of Helmand last month.


Helmand has seen much of this year's violence linked to a bloody
insurgency by the Islamist Taliban movement, who mostly target
Afghan and the NATO-led International Security Assistance Force,
or civilians who work for them.


The UNHCR said security was hampering a full assessment of the
number of displaced in the province and their plight.


"Access is very difficult, so it's hard to reach the people and
to know exactly how many there are," UNHCR spokeswoman Astrid van
Genderen Stort told AFP.


"NATO is not directly involved in distribution, but is involved
in opening access," she added.


Insecurity is also affecting estimated 112,000 displaced people
in southern Afghanistan who had fled earlier conflict and drought
before 2002, according to the UNHCR.


Their access to health and other basic services has been
"drastically reduced" since the beginning of the insurgency in
the south, it said.

