

Pakistan's economy is projected to post a growth rate of about
6.5 percent to 7.0 percent in 2007 and 2008, reflecting some
strengthening in agriculture and manufacturing sectors, the Asian
Development Bank said Tuesday.


The Pakistani economy is expected to pick up slightly in
financial year 2007, the ADB said in its annual "Asian
Development Outlook 2007" report which reviews the recent
economic performance of 43 developing countries.


The report noted "strengthening in agriculture and manufacturing"
sectors and said that inflation was set to moderate after further
tightening of monetary policy.


"The medium-term outlook for the Pakistani economy remains
positive, but macro- economic stability has to be maintained and
structural issues addressed," it said.


"Pakistan is projected to post a growth rate of about 6.5 percent
to 7.0 percent in 2007 and 2008," it said.


Buoyant growth, improved macro-economic fundamentals and
strengthened international credit ratings had been the
"hallmarks" of Pakistan's economy in recent years, the report
said.


However the report noted that the South Asian country's growth
rate slowed in 2006 to a "still brisk" 6.6 percent from an
average 8.0 percent in the preceding two years, due to bad
weather affecting agriculture.


"The robust expansion of the services sector failed to offset the
sluggish performance of the agriculture and manufacturing
sector," it said.


The report said that the economies of South Asian region grew by
8.7 percent, supported by growth in consumption and investment.


"The region has averaged more than 7.5 percent growth since 2003,
allowing it to reduce poverty levels in India, Pakistan and
Bangladesh. Every economy in the region posted growth of more
than 6.0 percent in 2006, except Nepal, which suffered in the
wake of political unrest," it said.

