

Taliban militants Tuesday abducted the principal of a high school
in northwest Pakistan where a militant recruiter and a policeman
died in a clash a day earlier, relatives said.


About a dozen gunmen barged into the house of Farid Mehsud,
principal of the Oxford Public School in Tank, which borders the
restive South Waziristan tribal region, they said.


The men manhandled family members and whisked away Mehsud and his
brother Humayun in waiting cars, a close relative of the
abductees said, requesting not to be identified by name.


"If you destroy us you cannot expect safety," the relative quoted
the gunmen as saying.


The principal on Monday had called for police protection after a
group of local Taliban visited his school and others in a bid to
recruit youth to fight "jihad" or holy war against NATO and US
forces in Afghanistan.


The leader of the militants, named as Ahsanullah Barki, hurled a
hand grenade at policemen when they tried to keep them out of the
school on Monday, killing the officer in charge of the local
police station.


Barki was killed in retaliatory police fire and two other
militants were captured, one of whom was wounded, officials said.


Authorities Tuesday shut local schools following the earlier
incident.


"In view of the law and order situation, we have closed all
educational institutions for five days," district administration
official Syed Mohsin Shah told AFP.


Earlier Tuesday, militants fired eight rockets at a paramilitary
troops' fort in Tank and troops retaliated, but the exchange of
fire caused no casualties, officials said.


Local residents said loud blasts woke them up around 3:30 am
(2230 GMT).


Militants recently torched video shops and banned barbers from
shaving beards in northwestern Pakistan, fuelling concern about
the "Talibanisation" of the already conservative area.

