

Judges in Egypt on Tuesday rejected the results of a referendum
on constitutional changes which they argued was fraudulent, and
vowed to boycott the supervision of future polls.


"The judges wash their hands of the referendum results," Ahmed
Sabr, a spokesman for the Judges' Club, told AFP about Monday's
ballot. "We will no longer be a fig leaf to cover something
shameful."


The government said 75 percent of voters approved controversial
amendments to the constitution that the regime says will
strengthen democracy and fight terrorism.


The official turnout was put at 27 percent of the 35-million-
strong electorate, but opposition and independent monitors said
the real figure was probably below 10 percent.


Before it was amended the constitution stipulated that elections
be supervised by judges, but Sabr said their task was made
impossible by the number of polling stations and official
interference.


Judges at 334 main polling stations were also expected to each
oversee 190 to 300 branch offices where much of the voting took
place, Sabr said.


"The head of the high election committee (the justice minister)
issued instructions forbidding judges from touring the polling
stations," he said.


"When a number of judges were prevented from moving around in
Menufiyah and South Sinai provinces, they gave up and quit their
polling stations."


He also cited cases in which polling stations observed by judges
to have empty ballot boxes would suddenly be filled with votes
when they returned an hour later.


Several independent rights groups also denounced irregularities
in the referendum.


Egypt's judges gained nationwide attention when they publicly
announced that fraud had marred 2005 elections.


Under the new amendments judicial oversight of elections is
reduced.

