

An international Islamic financial regulator said Tuesday it had
approved a draft framework to develop the industry, already worth
one trillion dollars, over the next 10 years.


The council of the Islamic Financial Services Board (IFSB) said
in a statement it had adopted the 10-year plan to develop the
Islamic financial services industry worldwide at its annual
meeting on Monday in Kuala Lumpur.


The framework aims "to provide a general blueprint or guideline
that may benefit national authorities in designing and developing
their national plans and initiatives as part of their financial
sector development policies," it said.


The framework contained 12 recommendations involving
institutional and infrastructure development, it said.


IFSB secretary-general Rifaat Ahmed Abdel Karim said the
framework would help develop the industry and integrate it into
the international financial system.


The IFSB is an international standard-setting body that regulates
the Islamic financial industry.


Some 15 central bank governors or their representatives and the
president of the Islamic Development Bank, a Saudi Arabia-based
institution set up to promote economic development in Muslim
countries, attended the meeting.


Malaysia is the 2007 chair of the board's council, and has said
total assets of the Islamic financial system are estimated to
exceed one trillion dollars, with annual growth of 15 to 20
percent.


Islamic finance fuses principles of sharia or Islamic law and
modern banking. Funds are banned from investing in companies
associated with tobacco, alcohol or gambling -- considered taboo
by Muslims.


The system also bans the earning of interest.

