

Danish coach Morten Olsen on Tuesday accused his opposite number
Joachim Loew of being "disrespectful" after learning the German
boss plans to name a second- string side for Wednesday's friendly
against Denmark.


Olsen was seething after only discovering in the press that Loew
plans to give his squad's fringe players a run out against
Denmark in Duisburg and will rest eight of his first-team who
beat the Czech Republic last weekend, including captain Michael
Ballack of Chelsea.


With up to six German players expected to make their debut, Olsen
accused the Germans of reneging on an agreement that both sides
would name full-strength sides.


And the 57-year-old fears a game against a weakened Germany will
hamper his preparations for their Euro 2008 qualifier against
Sweden in June.


"I have spent a lot of time in Germany and found the Germans to
be hospitable people, but what is happening here is
disrespectful," fumed the former Cologne player and coach.


"When we decided to organise this match, it was very clear that
each side would field their best team.


"If the press reports are right and eight players are missing, I
would have preferred to be told by telephone, rather than read it
in the press. It's damaging for our preparations ahead of the
Sweden match."


There will be at least two debutantes in Germany's starting line-
up with Hanover goalkeeper Robert Enke and Bayer Leverkusen
midfielder Simon Rolfes with another four novices set to be
blooded.


But 25-year-old Rolfes was adamant Germany will be no push-overs
at Duisburg's MSV-Arena and Olsen's worries will be proved wrong.


"The Danes do not need to underestimate us," said Rolfes. "This
is a huge challenge for us, we want to prove we are good enough
for the national side."


With the team expected to be named just before kick-off, there is
no news on who will captain the side with Kevin Kuranyi,
Germany's two-goal hero in Prague, the favourite to lead the
side.

