

Pakistan's cricket players are not being treated as suspects over
the murder of their coach Bob Woolmer, their spokesman said
Tuesday, as they began leaving London after a two-day rest here.


Pervez Mir, speaking after the first players boarded planes, also
said the team had no safety fears about returning home, although
he admitted that Pakistani cricket fans would be disappointed at
their performance.


"I would say that the Pakistani team was never a suspect. We had
nothing to do with it," he told reporters outside the team's
hotel near London Heathrow Airport, where the squad has been
staying since flying in from Jamaica Sunday.


"We were part of the same inquiry as everybody else so of course
we were questioned," saying that Jamaican police had confirmed
they were "not suspects."


The players, said to be devastated at Woolmer's death hours after
they were dumped out of the World Cup by minnows Ireland, have
made little or no comment during their London stay.


A first group of eight or nine players had already left for the
airport, while captain Inzamam ul-Haq was due to leave later in
the day, Mir said.


In a separate interview with Sky News, the spokesman conceded
that Pakistanis would feel let down by their team's performance
in the Caribbean.


"I'm sure the people in Pakistan are disappointed, and rightly
so," he said, adding: "The players themselves are disappointed
for underperforming."


Dismissing security concerns, Mir said: "There are always certain
people who are a little over the top," he said, while voicing
confidence that Pakistani authorities had taken sufficient
precautions.


"We don't have to worry about that," he said, adding: "There is
no concern, particularly when you go back to your home country."

