

A shouting protester interrupted a service to mark the 200th
anniversary of Britain's abolition of the slave trade, attended
by Queen Elizabeth II and Prime Minister Tony Blair.


The black man, who gave his name as Toyin Agbetu, 39, ran in
front of the altar at London's Westminster Abbey -- packed with
dignitaries for the occasion -- shouting "You should be ashamed",
and "This is an insult to us."


The protester got within 10 feet (three metres) of the queen and
her husband Prince Philip.


He was restrained by security guards and once outside was led
away by police in handcuffs.


Agbetu yelled: "We should not be here, this is an insult to us. I
want all the Christians who are Africans to walk out."


He said the British monarch needed to apologise on behalf of her
ancestors.


"The queen has to say sorry. It was Elizabeth I. She commanded
John Hawkins to take his ship. The monarch and the government and
the church are all in there patting themselves on the back.


"This nation has never apologised, there was no mention of the
African freedom fighters. This is just a memorial of William
Wilberforce."


Wilberforce was the driving parliamentarian behind the landmark
change in the British law which abolished the slave trade.


Major General David Burden, the receiver general of Westminster
Abbey, said: "We deeply regret the incident but the service is
continuing conducted by the dean in the normal way.


"We are sorry that this incident has taken publicity away from
the main service."


The Abolition of the Slave Trade Act was passed on March 25,
1807, imposing a 100-pound fine for every slave found aboard a
British ship.


The 1833 Slavery Abolition Act outlawed slavery itself throughout
the British Empire. However, some slaves did not gain their final
freedom until 1838.


Blair has expressed "deep sorrow" for Britain's involvement in
the slave trade but stopped short of a full apology.

