

Pizza dough could be made a more healthy diet choice by baking it
longer and hotter, chemists in the United States announced at a
meeting of heart scientists this week.


The research by chemists at the University of Maryland "could
lead to healthier pizza," according to a report published at a
meeting of the American College of Cardiology in the southern
city of New Orleans.


The researchers found that cooking whole-grain pizza dough for
longer and at higher temperatures boosted by up to 82 percent the
levels of antioxidants, substances which are thought to reduce
the risk of cancer and heart disease.


Thick-crusted deep-dish pizzas, which are cooked for longer, "may
have the potential to deliver higher levels of antioxidants in
comparison to other pizza styles," the report said, citing
Jeffrey Moore, the doctoral student who carried out the study.


Moore said pizza was chosen for the tests since it was the most
popular grain- based dish in the United States, adding that
chemical research on such common foods could have a big impact on
public health.


The exact processes behind the increase in antioxidants are not
yet fully understood, however, he said.


Moore also found that allowing the dough to ferment for longer
before baking leads to more antioxidants in the pizza. He
attributed the increase to chemical reactions caused by yeasts,
which had more time to release antioxidants in the dough.


The study, part-funded by the US Department of Agriculture, is
part of an ongoing effort by researchers at the university to
find new ways to enhance the levels of natural antioxidants in
grain-based foods such as whole wheat flour.


Moore said baking time and heat could both be increased without
burning the pizza if the process was carefully monitored.

