

Thirty-four teenagers from Ivory Coast, who were promised
glittering footballing careers in Europe by a rogue agent, have
returned home after they were found living in the rough in Mali,
an international agency said Tuesday.


The International Organisation for Migration (IOM) said the
incident was just one sign of a hidden but deeper problem in
Africa with unscrupulous, self-styled agents, and lure of
European football.


The parents of the 16 to 18 year-old boys, who played for a local
youth club in an impoverished suburb of the capital Abidjan, were
tricked into paying 300,000 CFA francs (600 dollars) so that
their children would be placed in top European clubs.


Instead, the youngsters were smuggled into neighbouring Mali
three months ago, the IOM said.


The group was discovered during a police raid recently, sleeping
on the floor of a room of a house in the town of Sikasso, with
little food, IOM spokeswoman Jemini Pandya said.


The fake agent and the president of the club they were playing
for, Yopougon, were arrested and are facing criminal charges.


"There is an increasing number of young Africans who are
reportedly lured to Europe with promises of wealth and fame, only
to find themselves without papers, money or contracts in
exploitative situations," Pandya explained.


"The dream of going to Europe is a very big one in West Africa,
football is a great passion," she added.


Some of the Ivorian youngsters were said to be so mesmerised by
the European game that they were desperate to become professional
players and send money back home to their families.


The IOM was unable to give a more precise idea of the scale of
the problem.


The agency and the UN Children's Fund (UNICEF) have joined forces
with the Ivorian government to give the teenagers psychological
support and to raise awareness about the dangers of bogus offers
from rogue agents.

