

US rappers Snoop Dogg and P Diddy on Tuesday scrapped five
planned concerts in Britain after Snoop Dogg was refused a visa
to enter the country.


Snoop Dogg was given a police caution after being arrested on
suspicion of violent disorder and affray at London Heathrow
Airport in April last year and the Home Office refused to rescind
a lifetime travel ban following the melee.


Snoop Dogg -- real name Calvin Broadus -- and P Diddy -- real
name Sean Combs -- were due to perform in London on Tuesday, then
in Cardiff, Manchester, Glasgow and Nottingham.


Their two dates in the Irish capital Dublin on Saturday and
Sunday will go ahead unaffected.


"P Diddy and Snoop were incredibly disappointed and devastated by
the news. They really did not want to let fans down this way as
the UK was a planned highlight of the tour," said a tour
spokesman.


"However, this ultimately was a situation out of their control,"
he added, saying that "assurances" were given in a bid to ensure
the "One Love Peace Tour" UK shows could go ahead.


But "with late notice of Snoop being denied a visa, time has run
out and it is too late to reconfigure the show. Credible behind-
the-scenes efforts were made, to no avail, to reverse the
decision.


Snoop Dogg and five members of his 30-strong entourage were
arrested during a melee in a first-class lounge at Heathrow
before a flight to Johannesburg last year.


The rapper was detained after his entourage was denied entry to
the British Airways lounge, after which whisky bottles were
trashed in a duty-free shop.


Police were hustling the group away from the scene when a further
disturbance broke out in which seven officers suffered minor
injuries -- mainly cuts and bruises -- and one suffered a
fractured hand.


P Diddy, already in Britain ahead of the concerts, spent Monday
evening in a brasserie in London with former England football
captain David Beckham, the city's Evening Standard newspaper
reported.

