

US consumer confidence fell sharply in March amid a spike in fuel
prices and turmoil on global financial markets, the Conference
Board said Tuesday.


The business research firm's consumer confidence index fell to
107.2 from 111.2 in February, which had been the highest level in
over six years.


"Apprehension about the short-term future has suddenly cast a
cloud over consumers' confidence," said Lynn Franco, director of
consumer research for the Conference Board.


"The recent turmoil in financial markets coupled with the run-up
in gasoline prices may have contributed to consumers' heightened
sense of uncertainty and concern. The direction of both
components over the next few months bears watching to determine
whether this decline is just a bump in the road or something more
substantial."


The report, seen as a gauge of consumer spending, was worse than
expected on Wall Street, where analysts had on average expected a
figure of 109.


The sub-indexes in the survey were mixed, with the weakest
outlook in the forward-looking expectations index, which declined
to 86.9 from 93.8.


The present situation index increased slightly to 137.6 from
137.1 in February.


The survey is based on a representative sample of 5,000 US
households through March 21.


"When you have all the issues facing people, such as skyrocketing
gasoline prices, a housing market that seems to be on life
support and equity markets that look like yo-yos, you shouldn't
be surprised that households are not ecstatic about their current
plight," said Joel Naroff of Naroff Economic Advisors.


"Households are indeed not happy about what is happening to them
in an economic sense and I suspect that the political issues are
not helping."

