

EU transport ministers gave their backing Thursday for plans to
expose the transatlantic aviation market to tougher competition
under an "open skies" accord, EU officials said.


"I am delighted to have piloted this agreement to its destination
with all passengers still on board," EU Transport Minister
Jacques Barrot said. "The deal is of great political and economic
importance."


The European Commission, which negotiated the deal on the EU's
behalf, says consumers will see up to 12 billion euros (16
billion dollars) in economic benefits as increased competition
brings downs ticket prices.


The European Union estimates the agreement could generate more
than 26 million extra passengers over the next five years and
create 80,000 new jobs in the EU and United States combined.


It is set to be signed in Washington on April 30 but will now
only come into effect in March 2008, instead of October 28 this
year, as originally planned, to take into account British
objections.


An open skies deal is supposed to replace the patchwork of
existing bilateral air transport agreements between EU members
and the United States, eight of which the European Court of
Justice has ruled are illegal.


Under the draft agreement, any EU carrier would be able to fly
from anywhere in the bloc to any point in the United States and
vice versa.


At the start of the meeting in Brussels, it was still uncertain
whether Britain would give its go-ahead to the deal, which needed
backing from all 27 EU members.


Britain had deep reservations because it would lift restrictions
on the number of airlines that can operate profitable
transatlantic flights from Heathrow airport outside London, the
busiest in Europe.


"This confidence and unity means that the European side enters
the next phase of negotiations with the United States in a strong
position," Barrot said.

