

Russian airline Aeroflot on Thursday signed a letter of intent to
buy 22 of Airbus' new long-range A350 passenger jets, Aeroflot
said in a statement.


Aeroflot "signed a letter of intent with the Airbus corporation
to acquire 22 A350 XWB aircraft," with delivery expected between
2014 and 2017, the statement said.


The signing comes after long uncertainty over whether the Russian
company would choose to renew its fleet with Airbus or with
aircraft from Boeing of the United States.


Thursday's statement did not reveal the value of the contract.
The catalogue price for one such plane is 230 million dollars
(172 million euros).


The deal is sure to be a welcome boost for the European
manufacturer, which has been going through a painful
restructuring process.


The A350 XWB project was launched by Airbus at the end of last
year to produce a mid-sized long haul rival to the future Boeing
787 Dreamliner. The first A350 is scheduled to enter service in
2013.


Ahead of Thursday's signing, Aeroflot chief executive Valery
Okulov said that in addition to the A350s the company would also
buy about a dozen Airbus A330 jets. These would be delivered
before the A350s, he said.


Aeroflot said last month that negotiations with Boeing on buying
the 787 Dreamliner jets had frozen.


While Russia's political relations with the United States have
soured of late, Moscow's choice of Airbus is as likely driven by
ambition to buy into Airbus owner European Aeronautic Defence and
Space Company (EADS).


The Russian state has bought up between five and seven percent of
EADS via state-controlled bank Vneshtorgbank (VTB) and is
expected to try to increase its role.


Worries about Russia's ambitions prompted President Vladimir
Putin to say recently that Russia wanted "cooperation" with EADS
and had no plans for a "hostile take-over."

