

A man held hostage for nine days following a dispute between
drugs gangs has been freed, in what police in London said
Thursday was the longest-running kidnap they have ever dealt
with.


The British capital's Metropolitan Police said officers from its
kidnap unit had worked around-the-clock since receiving
information that a man had been kidnapped on his way to work at
about 5:00 am (0500 GMT) on Tuesday March 13.


After days of surveillance, intelligence-gathering and
negotiations amid a news blackout, officers raided an address in
Liverpool, north-west England, Wednesday night and conducted
searches at a number of properties elsewhere.


The man, whose identity has not been released, was freed in
Liverpool and police arrested 11 men and one woman.


Police also recovered two firearms, one kilogram (2.2 pounds) of
cocaine and a large quantity of amphetamines, as well as about
200,000 pounds (295,000 euros, 395,000 dollars) in cash, Scotland
Yard said in a statement.


The 42 year-old man was beaten up during his ordeal and suffered
injuries to his body and face. He is receiving hospital treatment
but his life is not in danger, the force added.


Detective Chief Superintendent Sharon Kerr said tackling kidnaps
was extremely high risk, with the threat to life "real and
constant."


"In this instance, not only have we saved the life of a man, but
with the intelligence gained we have the opportunity to tackle an
organised criminal network and reduce harm to a number of
communities," she added.

