

The European Union accused the United States of giving about 23.7
billion dollars (18 billion euros) in non-repayable aid to
aircraft maker Boeing since 1990, in evidence to a WTO dispute
panel on Thursday.


The EU estimated that the US administration had given Boeing 18.9
billion dollars in the form of aid for research and development
and tax relief from 1990 to 2004 and that several federal states
had provided 4.8 billion dollars.


The information emerged from a summary of written complaints by
the European Commission in Brussels.


The EU and US have been at loggerheads for years over charges and
counter- charges that each provides state aid to its main
aircraft maker, Boeing in the United States and Airbus in Europe,
in breach of World Trade Organization fair- trading principles.


The parties in 2004 lodged reciprocal complaints at the WTO,
which a dispute settlement panel is now hearing.


The United States on Wednesday asserted that Britain, France,
Germany and Spain had provided 15 billion dollars to Airbus to
launch new products, according to a 72-page statement released
here.


The "resulting benefit" to the European aircraft maker "is well
over 100 billion dollars," a US official contended.


"Launch aid has enabled Airbus to launch a series of large
commercial aircraft models at a scale and a pace that would have
been impossible without subsidies," he said.


EU officials dismissed the 100-billion-dollar figure as "a smoke
screen" and argued that state aid to Airbus, unlike the
assistance provided Boeing, must be reimbursed.


The WTO is set to issue a preliminary ruling on the US complaint
against Airbus in September while the EU suit targeting Boeing is
to get a hearing in July, with a decision unlikely before
February 2008.

