

The Dutch retail group Ahold reported a profits leap on Thursday
and surprised analysts with the extent of its recovery from a
financial scandal and heavy provisions.


The group said that overall net profit last year rose six-fold to
915 million euros (1.2 billion dollars) from 146 million euros in
2005 when it provisioned 803 million euros in connection with an
accounting scandal in 2003.


Analysts had broadly expected an overall net profit of 782.32
million euros.


Excluding the effect of that earlier provision, operating profit
rose by 22.4 percent.


The results included a strongly improved contribution from the US
division US Foodservice, accounting for nearly half of group
sales, which Ahold wants to sell.


But Ahold also reported that group sales had risen by only 2.0
percent to 44.872 billion euros in 2006 and this disappointed
analysts who had forecast about 45.38 billion euros.


Group operating profit was 1.293 billion euros, and this also
fell short of analysts' forecasts of 1.4 billion euros.


The group said that it would not pay a dividend to holders of
non-preference shares in line with its practice since the
financial scandal in 2003. Some analysts had expected the
dividend to be resumed.


Ahold said it would increase a programme to buy back its own
shares from two billion to three billion euros, in relation to
the disposal of US Foodservice.


Ahold had said in November that it wanted to sell US Foodservice
which increased sales in 2006 by 4.1 percent to 19.2 billion
euros, thereby acounting for nearly half of total group sales.


US Foodservice made an operating profit last year of 258 million
euros from 86 million euros in 2005. Its operating margin was 1.7
percent.

