

Praise was heaped on Ireland's cricket team in parliament
Thursday following its qualification for the Super Eights and a
series of games against the world's biggest cricketing nations.


"I congratulate the Irish cricketing team very sincerely on their
magnificent achievement in the West Indies," Deputy Prime
Minister Michael McDowell told the Dail (lower house of
parliament).


He said Foreign Minister Dermot Ahern had made special consular
support available for the estimated 1,500 supporters accompanying
the team.


The team is predominantly made up of part-time players who
balance their cricketing commitments with full-time careers.


Sports Minister John O'Donoghue describes the team's success as
"a terrific achievement".


"Their impressive performances against Zimbabwe and, in
particular, Pakistan, has deservedly earned them a place in the
coveted Super Eight of the World Cup," he said.


"Their success has played a major role in raising the profile of
cricket in Ireland.


"I congratulate the manager Adi Birell and his captain Trent
Johnson and wish them every success."


Leaders of opposition parties also sent their good wishes to the
team.


Debutants Ireland were ensured a place in the Super Eights thanks
to Pakistan's thumping consolation win over Zimbabwe on
Wednesday.


Ireland previously tied with Zimbabwe and upset Pakistan in a
three-wicket win, and will progress from Group D to the second
phase of one-day cricket's showpiece tournament.


The small but growing number of cricket fans in the Irish
Republic are revelling the glowing media coverage of the team
that is giving the game a profile that it has not had for more
than a century.


Though the Irish Cricket Union is an all-Ireland body, Northern
Ireland has been the stronghold for the game on the island and it
is a minority sport in the Republic.

