

The race to become Tokyo's next governor kicked off Thursday with
almost a dozen candidates competing against controversial
incumbent Shintaro Ishihara, who is seeking a third term.


Ishihara, 74, a novelist-turned-politician known for his
nationalist views, is being challenged by contenders including
renowned architect Kisho Kurokawa, 72, and the former governor of
northern Miyagi Prefecture, Shiro Asano, 59.


The hardliner, whose views on Japan's militarist past have
frequently riled Asian neighbours, wants another four years in
office but has been under fire in recent months for excessive
spending on overseas business trips.


"I'm facing an uphill race, which I did not expect," Ishihara
said at a campaign rally in Tokyo ahead of the April election.


Ishihara is known for his support of Taiwan and staunch criticism
of China, and is accused by his opponents of damaging interracial
relations and devoting too much time to celebrity appearances.


"What we've lost during the eight years under the government of
Ishihara, whose remarks and actions as well as his political
stance are nothing but arrogant, was extremely significant," said
Asano, who is running independently but with support from Japan's
largest opposition Democratic Party.


Ishihara, who was once a lawmaker from the ruling Liberal
Democratic Party, turned down the party's endorsement in a bid to
attract swing voters.


One of the main battlegrounds of the election is Ishihara's pet
project to bid for the 2016 Olympic Games.


Architect Kurokawa has said he would axe the governor's bid for
the Olympic Games, expressing concerns over Tokyo's development
and urban planning if the Japanese capital wins hosting rights.


Kurokawa's futuristic National Art Center-Tokyo opened in
January. He also designed the exhibition wing of Amsterdam's Van
Gogh Museum and the Melbourne Central commercial hub.

