

The Angolan embassy in Zimbabwe rejected Thursday as "completely
false" reports that the Angolan government would send 3,000
policemen to Zimbabwe to bolster the security forces there.


"This information is completely false," it said in a statement.


"It is not the custom of the Angolan government to interfere into
the internal matters of other governments," the embassy said in
Harare, adding the Zimbabwean forces were "capable enough to
solve any internal issues."


The Times in London reported Thursday that about 2,500 Angolan
paramilitary police were to be deployed in Zimbabwe to boost the
security forces of President Robert Mugabe.


But the Angolan embassy denied the information "with sadness".


"The purpose of the visit of the Minister of Home Affairs of the
Republic of Angola to the Republic of Zimbabwe was to sign
agreements of interest of both countries such as the sharing of
knowledge and experience and never for the reinforcement of
police power of Zimbabwe which we think ... are capable enough to
solve any internal issues."


The embassy further sought to assure the Zimbabwean foreign
ministry "of its highest consideration".


Mugabe's government is pursuing a violent crackdown on leaders of
the opposition Movement for Democratic Change, which has seen
several arrested and severely beaten by the security forces in
recent days.


Angola and Zimbabwe are members of the Southern African
Development Community and have strong bilateral political ties in
spite of growing international condemnation of Zimbabwe's
political and economic downspiral under 83-year-old Mugabe, who
has ruled since independence in 1980.

