

India and Japan reaffirmed their commitment Thursday to secure
sea lanes in the Indian Ocean from piracy to ensure safe passage
for oil tankers and other vessels, officials said.


The pledge came at a meeting between Japanese Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe and Indian Foreign Minister Pranab Mukherjee, who also
met his counterpart Taro Aso on the first day of a three-day
visit to Japan.


"It is important to enhance cooperation between navies of Japan
and India so as to realise maritime security from the viewpoints
of energy supply and economic development," Mukherjee told Abe,
as quoted by the foreign ministry.


Abe said Japan and India shared basic values so they should build
a "strategic global partnership".


Japan, which has sought to boost ties with India to counter
frequent tensions with China, agreed in December to hold naval
exercises with New Delhi this year.


Japan imports nearly all of its oil from the Middle East so its
oil tankers must pass through the Indian Ocean.


The Indian minister is also expected to use his trip to discuss
possible cooperation in the field of nuclear energy for civilian
use.


In December, Tokyo agreed to start talks with India on a free-
trade pact but declined to extend support to a landmark deal
between the US and India offering access to US civilian nuclear
technology.


Last month, India and Japan settled the terms of negotiations for
the free trade deal, after Abe had agreed with his Indian
counterpart Manmohan Singh in December to conclude the trade
talks within two years.

