

An Iraqi security suspect who disappeared last year while under a
loose form of house arrest in Britain is now thought to be
abroad, Home Secretary John Reid said Thursday.


"I have been informed that the individual who absconded in August
2006 is currently believed to be abroad," he said in a quarterly
update to lawmakers on the controversial so-called control orders
system.


He said the suspect would be barred from returning to Britain if
he tried to do so.


It has previously been thought that the Iraqi national, who can
only be identified by the initials LL, would head to his homeland
where it is feared he could be a danger to British forces in the
US-led coalition.


LL vanished from his home address in northern England last August
after being charged with seven offences of breaching his control
order, which restricts the movements and contacts of suspects who
have not been tried.


The order was then quashed by the Court of Appeal in London in
separate legal proceedings, but he had not been given a modified
version before he disappeared.


Two other security suspects subject to control orders are also on
the run. Reid gave no update on either.


A total of 18 people, including nine British nationals, are
currently subject to control orders, he added.


A watchdog of Britain's anti-terrorism laws in February called on
the government for urgent planning on how to replace control
orders, which are made by the home secretary and are subject to
regular judicial review.


Critics, including the main opposition Conservatives and civil
liberties groups, say the disappearances show that control orders
are not working, and infringe suspects' human rights.


The government has said it is not their preferred option and was
only brought in after previous policy -- brought in after the
September 11, 2001 attacks on the United States -- in which
suspects were held indefinitely without charge was ruled
unlawful.

