

Gunmen loyal to two rival Iraqi Shiite parties clashed in the
southern city of Basra on Thursday, prompting security forces to
order a clampdown.


There were no casualties when militants from radical cleric
Moqtada al-Sadr's Mahdi Army attacked the Basra headquarters of
the Fadhila Party, and the Iraqi army and police was able to
restore order.


The gunbattle -- which came a week after Fadhila pulled out of
the Iraqi Shiite parliamentary bloc to which Sadr's movement
belongs -- will be seen as a worrying sign of intra-Shiite
tension.


"Basra has been put under curfew to curb the turmoil and to
maintain peace and order," said Major General Ali Hammadi, head
of the oil-rich city's emergency security committee.


A spokesman for British forces, which are in the process of
pulling out of Basra and transferring security into the hands of
Iraq's own fledgling forces, played down the incident.


"The word 'curfew' has been used, although there is no evidence
of it on the ground and there is certainly no city-wide
clampdown," said a British military spokesman.


"Iraqi police asked us for assistance. They said it had been a
disturbance," he said, adding that British troops had been to the
scene of the clash but were unable to determine exactly happened.


Fadhila is a small party on the national stage, but has a large
following in the Shiite port of Basra, Iraq's second biggest city
and the hub of its lucrative oil industry.


Last week, the party pulled out of the United Iraqi Alliance, a
coalition of Shiite parties which still controls a majority in
Iraq's parliament despite the defection. Sadr's movement is the
biggest single bloc within the coalition.


In the four years since the US-led invasion of Iraq, Basra has
become a scene of conflict between rival Shiite tribal and
political groupings keen to control the region's vast oil
revenues.

