

France became the first country to open its files on UFOs
Thursday when the national space agency unveiled a website
documenting more than 1,600 sightings spanning five decades.


The online archives, which will be updated as new cases are
reported, catalogues in minute detail cases ranging from the
easily dismissed to a handful that continue to perplex even hard-
nosed scientists.


"It is a world first," said Jacques Patenet, the aeronautical
engineer who heads the office for the study of "non-identified
aerospatial phenomena."


Known as OVNIs in French, UFOs have always generated intense
interest along with countless conspiracy theories about secretive
government cover-ups of findings deemed too sensitive or alarming
for public consumption.


"Cases such as the lady who reported seeing an object that looked
like a flying roll of toilet paper" are clearly not worth
investigating, said Patenet.


But many others involving multiple sightings -- in at least one
case involving thousands of people across France -- and physical
evidence such as burn marks and radar trackings are taken very
seriously.


A phalanx of beefy security guards formed a barrier in front of
the space agency (CNES) headquarters where the announcement was
made, "to screen out uninvited UFOlogists," an official
explained.


Of the 1,600 cases registered since 1954, nearly 25 percent are
classified as "type D", meaning that "despite good or very good
data and credible witnesses, we are confronted with something we
can't explain," Patenent said.


The website can be found at www.cnes.fr/web/4461-geipan.php

