

Germany has included the goal of having a constitution for the
European Union by 2009 in a draft declaration to mark the 50th
anniversary of the bloc, the Handelsblatt newspaper reported
Thursday.


The German government has prepared a so-called Berlin
Declaration, which has been sent to the other 26 EU member states
for approval and is to be signed at a giant birthday party for
the bloc in the German capital Sunday.


Government spokesman Ulrich Wilhelm said Wednesday that Berlin
was confident the draft document would win the support of the
entire union.


The weekend celebrations will mark the 50th anniversary of the
signing of the Treaty of Rome which established the European
Economic Community, the forerunner of the EU.


Germany is hoping to relaunch the drive to ratify an EU
constitution with the signing of the Berlin Declaration, which is
intended to spell out values and principles that unite the bloc.


Handelsblatt said that it had obtained a copy of the text, in
which Germany states the goal of ending the constitutional crisis
in two years, before elections for the European Parliament in
2009.


But the draft does not mention the word "constitution," so as to
not provoke supporters of a more watered-down treaty.


The report noted that several states objected to including the
date 2009, deeming it too early.


It added that the inclusion in the declaration of a "European
social model" that can only be preserved by a united bloc was
also a source of controversy.


Britain in particular has raised objections to the inclusion of
such a phrase in a European constitution.


Voters in France and the Netherlands rejected a draft
constitution in referendums in 2005, sending the project into a
tailspin and plunging the union into a serious crisis.


The Berlin Declaration will be signed by German Chancellor Angela
Merkel, European Commission Chief Jose Manuel Barroso and the
head of the European Parliament, Hans-Gert Poettering, at the EU
summit Sunday.

