

Thousands of police officers will be mobilised during East
Timor's presidential poll next month, an official said Thursday
amid fears that unrest could mar the vote.


"During the election period, close to 1,000 UN police and about
2,400 Timorese police officers will be on duty throughout the
country," said senior UN official Eric Huck Gim Tan.


Part of their role would be to help secure ballot boxes and
maintain order around polling stations, he said.


The Australian-led international security force in East Timor --
dispatched after unrest in May last year that killed at least 37
people and displaced some 150,000 -- would be ready to provide
support if necessary, he said.


East Timor is due to hold on April 9 its first presidential poll
since it formally achieved independence in 2002.


The impoverished country was occupied by Indonesia for 24 years
until 1999, when its people chose self-determination in a UN-
administered referendum.


But a wave of violence and destruction engulfed East Timor soon
after the landmark poll, and unrest has pulsed through the
country since then.


The fears for the April election centre partly on a fugitive
rebel soldier, Major Alfredo Reinado, who is being hunted by the
international security force and is said to have support among
some East Timorese.


The UN also said in New York this week that the number of
internally displaced persons in East Timor's capital, Dili, had
risen by 8,000 since January to 37,000.


The UN mission in East Timor has said it was concerned that the
sharp rise could cause food shortages -- particularly of rice --
a problem exacerbated by a locust infestation across an area of
cropland.


Thousands of people have fled their homes in recent months
because of violence, in Dili and elsewhere, although the UN
mission said unrest had ebbed in recent days.

