

The United States Thursday hailed a "historic" decision by EU
transport ministers to endorse an "open skies" accord that
injects more competition into transatlantic aviation.


In a statement, US Transportation Secretary Mary Peters said the
deal would boost "economic, political, and personal relationships
between our two continents for years to come."


"The historic decision by the European Council of Ministers ...
will bring new and valuable benefits to air travelers and
communities on both sides of the Atlantic," she said.


"Tearing down regulatory barriers allows us to foster more
affordable and convenient air travel and gives our airline
industry more opportunities to compete, innovate and thrive."


The European Commission, which negotiated the deal on the EU's
behalf, says consumers will see up to 12 billion euros (16
billion dollars) in economic benefits as increased competition
brings downs ticket prices.


The European Union estimates the agreement could generate more
than 26 million extra passengers over the next five years and
create 80,000 new jobs in the EU and United States combined.


Under the draft agreement, any EU carrier would be able to fly
from anywhere in the bloc to any point in the United States and
vice versa.


As a result, Peters said, "this agreement will spur growth within
our aviation network and enhance the freedom of American fliers
to choose where and when they travel."


The deal is set to be signed in Washington on April 30 but will
now only come into effect in March 2008, instead of October 28
this year, as originally planned, to take into account British
objections.


Britain had deep reservations because it would lift restrictions
on the number of airlines that can operate profitable
transatlantic flights from Heathrow airport outside London, the
busiest in Europe.

