

A US soldier has been sentenced to 27 months in prison for being
an accessory to the rape and murder of a 14-year-old girl in Iraq
and the killing of her family, the US military said.


Private First Class Bryan Howard, 19, was sentenced at Fort
Campbell, Kentucky on Wednesday after he pleaded guilty to the
accessory charge as well as conspiracy to obstruct justice, the
military said in a statement.


Murder and rape charges against Howard were dropped "based on his
limited role in the crimes," the military said.


The court concluded that Howard had overheard his friends
planning the crime and then lied to protect them, the Houston
Chronicle reported.


"If I could go back, I would not have let it happen in the first
place. I definitely would have told somebody," Howard reportedly
said in a statement to the court.


Howard was one of five soldiers accused in the rape and murder of
the Iraqi girl and the slaying of her parents and younger sister
-- one of a series of atrocities committed by US troops in Iraq.


Last month, another US soldier, Sergeant Paul Cortez, was
sentenced to 100 years in prison for the March 2006 rape and
murders in Mahmudiyah, south of Baghdad.


An accomplice, Specialist James Barker, avoided the death penalty
by pleading guilty and agreeing to cooperate with prosecutors. He
was sentenced to 90 years in prison in November.


The alleged ringleader, Steve Green, was earlier discharged from
the army and will be tried in federal court.


The crime was the second incident involving soldiers from the
famed 101st Airborne Division.


The most high-profile allegation against American troops --
charges that US marines killed 24 Iraqi civilians in the town of
Haditha in 2005 -- is expected to go to trial later this year.

