

Japanese land prices have risen for the first time in 16 years,
the government said Thursday, in one of the clearest signs yet
that the economy is finally winning its long battle against
deflation.


Residential land prices at the start of 2007 were up 0.1 percent
on average from a year earlier, while commercial land prices saw
a rise of 2.3 percent, both marking the first increase for 16
years, the land ministry reported.


The data marked another milestone for the world's second-largest
economy, which is only just emerging from over a decade in the
deflation doldrums after the asset price bubble burst in the
early 1990s.


"This underpins the Japanese economy's exit from deflation, which
is certainly good for the whole economy," said Koichi Haji, chief
economist at NLI Research Institute.


"But it's totally different from the past property bubble in the
1980s, as people have abandoned the myth that land prices keep
rising forever," he added.


Although overall land prices rose, there was a marked divergence
between regions, with major cities such as Tokyo seeing sharp
rises while land prices in many rural areas continued to decline,
the ministry said.


The survey is just one of a series by the Japanese government. A
separate report released last August by the tax agency showed the
average price of land along major roads rising for the first time
for 14 years.


Japan's property market collapse in the early 1990s contributed
to pushing Asia's largest economy into a long deflationary
spiral, encouraging consumers to put off spending and leaving
banks saddled with bad loans.


Now its economy is in the midst of its longest sustained recovery
since the end of World War II, allowing the central bank to raise
interest rates for the first time for almost six years last July,
and again in February.


New buildings are mushrooming up around the capital although the
market is still far from the dizzying heights of the late 1980s,
when the grounds of the Imperial Palace were famously valued at
more than the state of California.

