

Hong Kong share prices closed 0.89 percent higher Thursday,
bouyed by Wall Street's sharp gains overnight after the US
Federal Reserve left interest rates on hold and hinted at an
easier stance to come, dealers said.


They said the latest gains prompted investors who had bet the
market would fall to cover their positions, especially in HSBC,
while strong results from Li Ka- shing's flagship companies
Cheung Kong and Hutchison Whampoa provided additional support.


The Hang Seng Index rose 173.84 points at 19,690.25, off a low of
19,621.26 and high of 19,813.21. Turnover was 57.7 billion
dollars (7.4 billion US).


Ben Kwong, research head at KGI Asia, said a positive statement
from the Federal Reserve helped sentiment.


"The positive impact of the Fed statement helped boost blue chips
and offset a decline in China Mobile," he said.


The Fed tweaked the language in its statement, choosing not to
refer to the possibility of "additional firming" of rates as it
did in January and thereby sparking speculation that it is open
to an interest rate cut later this year.


Jackson Wong, investment manager at Tanrich Securities, said HSBC
led the gains on short covering.


"Short-covering in HSBC helped sustain gains in the overall
index. The stock has been a laggard in the past and is playing
catch up," he said.


HSBC was up 2.30 dollars or 1.71 percent at 136.50 dollars.


Cheung Kong gained 2.30 or 2.43 perent to 96.85 while Hutchison
slipped 0.05 at 75.40 on profit-taking after its results.


China Mobile was down 1.35 or 1.83 percent at 72.30 on profit-
taking following recent gains in the run-up to its results
announcement Wednesday.


Among other blue chips, Swire Pacific was up 2.0 at 88.55 and Sun
Hung Kai Properties rose 1.80 at 90.25.


Bank of China was up 0.28 at 19.38, reporting after the close a
jump of 65 percent in net profit for 2006.


The property sub-index rose 516.48 points or 2.25 percent at
23.476.84 with Sino Land up 0.46 hkd at 16.74 and New World
Development up 0.40 at 17.40.


The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index was up 106.54 points or
1.14 percent to 9,413.70.

