

The United States guaranteed the "life-long safety" of wartime
Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karadzic a year after he was indicted
for genocide, a Montenegrin daily said Thursday.


Karadzic, who has been wanted by UN war crimes tribunal since
1995, agreed to withdraw from public life in exchange for the
assurance, the Republika newspaper said.


The report was published alongside what Republika said was a copy
of the June 1996 agreement apparently bearing the signatures of
Karadzic and Richard Holbrooke, the former US envoy to the
Balkans.


In 2004, Karadzic's wife, Ljiljana Zelen-Karadzic, said that such
a document existed.


Karadzic and his former military chief Ratko Mladic have been at
large since they were indicted by the International Criminal
Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) more than 11 years ago.


They face charges of war crimes, crimes against humanity and
genocide, mainly in relation to the 1995 Srebrenica massacre of
8,000 Muslim men and boys, the single worst atrocity in Europe
since World War II.


Little is known about Karadzic's whereabouts, but he is believed
to be hiding in the Serb-controlled part of Bosnia or in a remote
area in neighbouring Montenegro, where he spent his childhood.


International forces stationed in Bosnia have staged a series of
raids in recent weeks to try to locate him, while Montenegrin
police detained and questioned members of his family at the
weekend.


The United States has offered a reward of up to five million
dollars (3.8 million euros) for information leading to the arrest
of war crimes suspects including Karadzic and Mladic.

