

Communist Vietnam, under pressure over its human rights record,
stressed through its state-controlled media Thursday that it
would take action against dissenters who challenge the one-party
state.


The deputy security minister said Vietnam would defend its
political system against pro-democracy activists, several of whom
have recently been detained, according to a lengthy English-
language online newspaper report.


"The Vietnamese constitution states that Vietnam has a one-party
political system," Deputy Public Security Minister Senior
Lieutenant General Nguyen Van Huong was quoted as saying in the
Thanh Nien daily.


"It's illegal if some people want to establish another party, not
to mention secretly inciting other people to join their
organisation and aim to overthrow the existing government," he
was quoted as telling a US diplomat this month.


According to the report on the meeting, Huong said Vietnam was
right to prosecute activists such as Catholic priest Nguyen Van
Ly and members of the pro-democracy "Bloc 8406," named after its
April 8 launch last year.


"Vietnam will continue to take action against people who incite
others to act against the Vietnamese state," he said, adding that
these included Hanoi lawyers Nguyen Van Dai and Le Thi Cong Nhan,
detained early last month.


The three have been accused of breaching article 88 of the
criminal code, which bans "defaming" the government and carries a
maximum 20-year jail term.

