

Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh Thursday met the leader of
his regional ally in Kashmir over the party's calls for a drastic
cut in troop levels in the disputed territory, officials said.


Mufti Mohammed Sayeed's regional People's Democratic Party (PDP),
a key partner of Kashmir's Congress-run administration, has
threatened to withdraw its support if New Delhi rejected its
demands for troop cuts by mid-year.


Details of Singh's one-on-one meeting with Sayeed were not
immediately known, although officials said the regional
politician was also expected to demand the repeal of a tough law
that gave sweeping powers to the army in Kashmir.


"The PDP leader is also likely to press for the withdrawal of
military presence from civilian property in Jammu and Kashmir,"
an official from the premier's office told AFP.


The two parties swept into power in local polls in 2004 which saw
a historic 80-percent voter turnout in Kashmir.


The state was ruled by the PDP for the first two years after the
legislative elections as part of its agreement with the Congress
party.


An estimated half a million combat troops and paramilitary
soldiers are deployed in Indian Kashmir, where an armed Islamic
insurgency has claimed more than 44,000 lives by one official
count since 1989.


Militants and residents says at least 65,000 people have lost
their lives in the unrest.


The PDP argues that since the number of guerrillas in the
Himalayan state has shrunk from several thousands a decade ago to
less than 1,000, the presence of such a large force was not
necessary.


The PDP's demand has been initially rejected by both Prime
Minister Singh and Kashmir's Chief Minister Ghulaam Nabi Azad,
also from the Congress party.


Pakistan, which has fought two of its three wars with India over
Kashmir since 1947, has linked the region's demiliterisation to
lasting peace between the two South Asian nuclear-armed arch-
rivals.

