

A snapshot of ocean conditions taken during Hurricane Ivan in
2004 has yielded new clues about the dynamics of storm surges
that could help meteorologists make more accurate predictions, a
study released Thursday said.


Weather forecasters typically rely on data about surface winds
and turbulence to try and figure out just how much a storm has
churned up the ocean and what the resulting storm surge will look
like -- the kind of surge that walloped New Orleans after
Hurricane Katrina in 2005.


But when US Navy researchers studied data gleaned from deep-sea
sensors in the Gulf of Mexico as the eye of Hurricane Ivan passed
overhead on September 15, 2004, the wave patterns they observed
were quite different from what they anticipated.


They expected the waves to build in speed and intensity in line
with increasing wind speeds, based on the formulations used in
current ocean circulation and storm surge computer models.


The first-of-a-kind readings showed that the winds did indeed
exert a drag effect on the waves at speeds below 72 miles per
hour (32 meters per second), but above that point the wave speeds
steadily declined.


The investigators suspect that once the winds hit this point,
which is considered the threshold for hurricane-force winds, the
spray, foam and bubbles from breaking waves reduce the "drag"
effect allowing the hurricane to slip over the sea.


"We should be able to improve storm surge predictions based on
this finding," said William Teague, an oceanographer with the
Naval Research Laboratory at the Stennis Space Center in
Mississippi.


The study appears in the journal Science.

