

Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said Thursday that North Korea
would gain nothing from boycotting talks aimed at ending
Pyongyang's nuclear weapons programme.


"North Korea would gain nothing from taking this kind of
attitude," Abe told reporters, just hours after the talks in
Beijing broke up following four days of deadlock, as North
Korea's chief envoy Kim Kye-Guan abruptly abandoned the talks and
flew home.


"North Korea can change its current surroundings only when it
takes concrete actions to abandon its nuclear weapons programme
based on the agreement made in the six-party talks," Abe said.


Abe has built his career on taking a tough line over the
kidnapping of Japanese civilians by North Korean agents and has
refused to fund a six-nation pact on shutting down Pyongyang's
nuclear programme due to the row.


After the break-up of the talks, China said the latest round of
negotiations had been suspended with no date set for their
resumption.


The announcement followed an increasingly frustrating wait for
the return of 25 million dollars of North Korean assets that been
frozen in a Macau bank since 2005, with Pyongyang's envoy
refusing to talk until the money was safely transferred.


But other envoys insisted the tortuous process remained on track
and said they expected the reclusive Stalinist regime to abide by
an agreement to shut down its key Yongbyon nuclear reactor by
mid-April.


"The six-party process continues to be on track," chief US
negotiator Christopher Hill told reporters. "It is our strong
view that we are on schedule to meet the 60-day requirement."


In a statement, host nation China said: "The parties agreed to
recess and will resume the talks at the earliest opportunity to
continue to discuss and formulate an action plan."

