

Poland's ruling Kaczynski twins are caving in to US demands and
conditions for a missile defence system that Washington wants to
base in Poland, opposition leader Donald Tusk has said.


"I feel that the Kaczynski brothers are crawling on their hands
and knees towards the Americans on this issue, if not prostrating
themselves before Washington," Tusk, of the liberal main
opposition party, Civic Platform (PO), said late Wednesday on
TVN24 television.


He accused the government of Prime Minister Jaroslaw Kaczynski,
whose identical twin Lech is president of Poland, of being
"unclear and furtive and following policies without a clear
vision of the consequences".


The opposition leader, who met with Jaroslaw Kaczynski on
Wednesday, also accused the prime minister of not having a solid
understanding of the proposed missile defence system, which
Washington wants to extend into Poland and the Czech Republic.


"The prime minister said something which surprised me: according
to him, the missile shield is supposed to protect Poland from
North Korea," Tusk said.


US Assistant Secretary of State Daniel Fried, who held two days
of talks wiht Polish officials about the missile shield, said
Wednesday that the defence system -- 10 interceptor missiles
which Washington wants to base in Poland, plus a radar in the
Czech Republic -- was aimed at thwarting potential attacks "from
the general direction of the Middle East, and Iran in
particular."


Parts of the shield are already in place in the United States,
Britain and Greenland, and the US plan is to have the system
fully operational by 2011-2012.


"The prime minister clearly showed that he isn't really up to
speed on what the missile shield is supposed to be used for,"
Tusk said.

