

The dollar firmed on Thursday, after plumbing a two-year trough
against the euro overnight on signals from the US Federal Reserve
of a possible interest rate cut later this year, analysts said.


The euro pulled back slightly to 1.3362 dollars in early European
trading, from 1.3382 dollars late in New York on Wednesday.


The European single currency had peaked at 1.3411 dollars
overnight -- the highest level since March 17, 2005.


The dollar firmed to 117.58 yen in European trade, from 117.53
yen late on Wednesday. The price of gold increased in value.


The US Federal Reserve kept interest rates unchanged at 5.25
percent on Wednesday, but tweaked its policy statement in what
some saw as a move to lay the ground for a potential cut in rates
in the face of economic weakness.


"The dollar traded sharply lower overnight on the Fed statement
changes and remains weak through to the European opening," said
ABN Amro currency analyst Peter Frank.


The Federal Open Market Committee's new policy statement dropped
a reference to "firming" or hiking rates, substituting the phrase
"future policy adjustments" that would depend on economic data.


This fuelled hopes of a rate cut sometime soon, analysts said.


"This statement is a clear shift away from a tightening bias to a
neutral bias and is one further step closer to actual monetary
easing," said Derek Halpenny, senior currency economist at The
Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi.


Market watchers said the euro would continue to garner further
support.


"Euro buying sentiment is likely to stay strong for the time
being on expectations of a narrowing of interest rate
(differentials) between the euro and the dollar," Kaneko said.


Last week, the European Central Bank increased eurozone borrowing
costs by a quarter-point to a five-and-a-year high of 3.75
percent and analysts believe further increases are in the
pipeline.


The pound rose as high as 1.9726 dollars after news that British
retail sales leapt by 1.4 percent in February compared with the
previous month, marking the biggest monthly gain since January
2005.


Analysts said the stronger-than-expected data would likely
increase expectations of a rate hike some time soon. British
borrowing costs stand at 5.25 percent.


The euro was changing hands at 1.3362 dollars, against 1.3382
dollars on Wednesday, 157.12 yen (157.53), 0.6783 pounds (0.6799)
and 1.6175 Swiss francs (1.6185).


The dollar stood at 117.58 yen (117.53) and 1.2105 Swiss francs
(1.2091).


The pound was being traded at 1.9710 dollars (1.9678).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold rose to 664.20
dollars per ounce, from 658.75 dollars late on Wednesday.

