

EU transport ministers threatened on Thursday to seek
alternatives for completing the Galileo satellite navigation
system unless the current consortium resolved key problems.


"To date there have been considerable delays," said German
Transport Minister Wolfgang Tiefensee.


"A number of key issues such as organisation and technical
issues, financial issues have not yet been satisfactorily
resolved."


The system, worth around 1.5 billion euros (1.95 billion dollars)
and meant to be meant to be fully operational in 2012, is aimed
at breaking Europe's dependence on the free US Global Positioning
System (GPS), used aboard many cars, boats and aircraft.


But unless the companies demonstrate progress in resolving the
problems by May 10, Tiefensee said, "we (will) need to look to
new ways of moving this major innovation project forward and
getting it back on track."


"If the consortium were not to respond we would look at all
possibilities, including a new call for tender, but we're not at
that stage and I feel that this ultimatum will be respected,"
said EU Transport Commissioner Jacques Barrot.


The current consortium comprises Britain's Inmarsat, the European
group EADS, French firms Thales and Alcatel, Spain's Hispasat and
Aena, Italy's Finmeccanica and Germany's TeleOp.


Industry sources have accused Hispasat of causing the delays with
demands for a bigger role than initially foreseen, although the
Spanish government has dismissed such claims.


Barrot said the consortium had to come up with a single operating
structure by May 10 with one head capable speaking for all the
members.

