

Around 65 excited gamers queued outside a Sydney department store
for around four hours early Friday to become the first gamers
outside the United States to experience Sony's new Playstation 3
games console.


Organisers had predicted that thousands of fans would turn out to
snatch up the first of the long-delayed units that were given a
glitzy launch at Myers Department Store at midnight (1300 GMT),
but only a few dozen tuned up at the event, barely managing to
outnumber staff and publicists.


Sony Computer Entertainment (Australia) managing director Michael
Ephraim however told AFP the unit was launched simultaneously at
550 stores across the continent and that he had no doubt the PS3,
which is making its debut here five months late, would be an
enduring hit among gamers.


"I expected hundreds if not thousands of people to be here
tonight," said advertising sales executive Danny Zarka, 31, who
was first in line to buy the PS3 after turning up four and a
quarter hours ahead of the midnight launch.


"But it's really been worth the wait and I was really thrilled to
be the first one to get my hands on this baby before anyone
else," he told AFP as he clutched his spanking new games console.


"It's going to be a sleepless night, but I haven't scheduled any
meeting for early tomorrow," he said before heading home to let
the games begin.


Organisers laid on a giant screen in the pedestrian mall outside
the store that flickered with the images action of the latest
James Bond epic "Casino Royale," interspersed by Playstation
games.


Bored-looking masseurs rubbed the shoulders of any takers of the
free service, as legions of vendors gave away pop corn, ice
cream, water and soft drinks, crates of which were left over
after the launch party to the handful of fans queuing to buy the
PS 3 as well as to journalists.


"I really wanted to be one of the first to see this thing which
has so much promise," said Geoff London, a 32-year-old student of
veterinary science who queued with his girlfriend.


"I've been looking forward for months to get my hands on it and
to see its crystal clear graphics. I think it's a bargain at the
price," he said of the 999 Australian dollar (808 US) tag.


A Sony spokesman said earlier 10,000 of the consoles -- Sony's
answer to the challenge thrown down by Nintendo's Wii and
Microsoft's XBox 360 -- had been pre-ordered in Australia.


The PS3 was launched in the United States and Japan in November,
but production problems delayed its release in the rest of the
world.


The delay allowed Sony's rivals to move a step ahead in
Australia, where the XBox 360 was launched a year ago and the Wii
has been on the shelves for five months.


The PS3 is also the most expensive of the trio because Sony is
only releasing its top-of-the-line 60-gigabyte version in Europe,
Africa, the Middle East and Australasia.

