

Asian stocks closed higher Thursday, led by sharp gains overnight
on Wall Street after the US Federal Reserve left interest rates
unchanged and hinted at a possible easing to come, dealers said.


They said remarks by the Fed on the US economic outlook were
taken to mean that its rate tightening cycle was definitely at an
end and that the next step would be a reduction, possibly within
the first half of the year.


Markets responded accordingly, with Tokyo up 1.49 percent and
Sydney adding 1.6 percent despite growing concerns there that
local interest rates will have to go higher again to keep
inflation in check.


Dealers said it was significant that investors ignored the other
side to the Fed's message -- that rates may have to be cut to
help a slowing economy -- and seemed unconcered about its
comments on a still real threat of inflation.


They said the recent momentum now appears to have won over the
doubters who had been reluctant to commit again to stocks after
the turmoil sparked late last month by a near nine percent crash
in Shanghai.


The Chinese markets on the day hit fresh record highs on
unprecedented turnover of some 22 billion dollars as investors
chased prices in order not to get left behind in the latest burst
of exuberance.


It seems evident that despite Beijing's best efforts, it will
have to do more than hike interest rates if it is bring the
market to heel and the economy to a more sustainable pace of
growth.


Elsewhere, Mumbai put on 2.8 percent, putting it back above
13,000 points but still some way off the record levels seen in
early February before the Chinese- inspired sell-off.


TOKYO: Japanese share prices closed up 1.49 percent at a three-
week high, tracking Wall Street after the US Federal Reserve
raised hopes of an interest rate cut later this year, dealers
said.


They said that the market was catching up with two days of gains
in US stocks after a national holiday in Japan on Wednesday.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's benchmark Nikkei-225 index of leading
shares rose 256.00 points to 17,419.20, the best finish since
March 1.


The TOPIX index of all issues on the Tokyo Stock Exchange's first
section advanced 23.51 points or 1.38 percent to 1,731.80.


Gainers beat decliners 1,453 to 206, with 72 stocks flat.


Volume rose to 2.16 billion shares from 1.90 billion on Tuesday.


Dealers took their cue from Wall Street were stocks shot higher
Wednesday after the Federal Reserve kept its key short-term
interest rate anchored at 5.25 percent and boosted hopes for an
easier monetary policy.


Wall Street generally likes rate cuts as opposed to rate hikes
which makes it more expensive to borrow cash and finance deals.


"The Tokyo market mirrored sharp gains on the US stock markets on
the back of the change in the Fed's stance on interest rates,"
said Norihiro Fujito, senior investment strategist at Mitsubishi
UFJ Securities.


"But the market had difficulty in rising further because there
was selling near the 17,500-point level," he added.


Analysts noted that the Federal Reserve's remarks were not
completely positive as slowing growth would crimp corporate
earnings.


"The possibility of lower interest rates in the US implies a
decline in the economy," said Fujito.


HONG KONG: Hong Kong share prices closed 0.89 percent higher,
driven by Wall Street's sharp gains overnight after the US
Federal Reserve left interest rates on hold and hinted at an
easier stance to come, dealers said.


They said the latest gains prompted investors who had bet the
market would fall to cover their positions, especially in HSBC,
while strong results from Li Ka- shing's flagship companies
Cheung Kong and Hutchison Whampoa provided additional support.


The Hang Seng Index rose 173.84 points at 19,690.25, off a low of
19,621.26 and high of 19,813.21. Turnover was 57.7 billion
dollars (7.4 billion US).


Ben Kwong, research head at KGI Asia, said a positive statement
from the Federal Reserve helped sentiment.


"The positive impact of the Fed statement helped boost blue chips
and offset a decline in China Mobile," he said.


The Fed tweaked the language in its statement, choosing not to
refer to the possibility of "additional firming" of rates as it
did in January and thereby sparking speculation that it is open
to an interest rate cut later this year.


Jackson Wong, investment manager at Tanrich Securities, said HSBC
led the gains on short covering.


"Short-covering in HSBC helped sustain gains in the overall
index. The stock has been a laggard in the past and is playing
catch up," he said.


HSBC was up 2.30 dollars or 1.71 percent at 136.50 dollars.


SEOUL: South Korean share prices closed 0.39 percent higher
following sharp gains on Wall Street after comments from the US
Federal Reserve stoked hopes for an early cut in interest rates,
dealers said.


The market appeared to have settled at 1,450 points at one stage
before losing most of its early gains in late trade on heavy
profit-taking by retail investors, they said.


Steelmakers, large-cap IT stocks and brokerages were among the
key gainers.


Hynix Semiconductor was in the spotlight, up 850 won or 2.66
percent at 32,750, as investors welcomed its partnerships with
Toshiba and SanDisk.


The KOSPI index ended up 5.68 points at 1,448.53, after trading
between 1,447.79 and 1,456.18. Volume was 293 million shares
worth 3.4 trillion won (3.62 billion dollars). Gains led falls
403 to 366, with 80 stocks unchanged.


Institutional and foreign investors were net buyers of shares
worth 53.1 billion won and 51.0 billion won respectively while
retail investors were net sellers of 152.9 billion won.


"The Wall Street rally lifted overall market sentiment, along
with firmer Japanese and Chinese shares, although there seemed to
be some resistance at the 1,450-point level," said Tongyang
Investment Bank analyst Hur Jae-Hwan.


He said the market needs solid earnings momentum and some clear
evidence of recovery in the IT industry before resuming its
rally.


TAIPEI: Taiwan share prices closed 0.86 percent higher in active
trade, with sentiment bolstered by Wall Street's rally overnight
on hopes of a near-term US interest rate cut, dealers said.


The US Federal Reserve left rates unchanged overnight and its
comments were taken to be softer on monetary policy, sparking
sharp gains in New York which underpinned solid gains across the
Asian markets.


There had been strong resistance at 7,800 points here but the US
lead provided enough momentum to get through that level.


The weighted index rose 66.64 points at 7,823.67, after trading
between 7,822.63 and 7,856.99, on turnover of 111.57 billion
dollars (3.37 billion US).


Risers led decliners 582 to 504, with 213 stocks unchanged.


"As expected, the market took its cue from Wall Street and
enjoyed a reasonable upswing," SinoPac Securities assistant vice
president Alvin Teng said.


The market, however, failed to sustain its momentum toward the
close as investors turned reluctant to push the upside much
further, he said.


"Although the barrier of 7,800 points has been breached,
investors remain wary about the possibility of a sudden surge of
selling to recover previous losses," he said.


On the other hand, it would be unrealistic to speculate about a
sharp downturn while Wall Street and other major markets keep up
a positive trend, he said, adding that local investors should
instead, watch the performance of the Hong Kong market for
direction.


"Our benchmark should be the Hang Seng index," Teng said. "When
it manages to recover 20,000 points, up from below 19,800 now,
Taipei will stand a better chance of breaching 8,000."


SHANGHAI: Chinese share prices extended record gains, adding 0.45
percent on Wall Street's sharp overnight advance after the US
Federal Reserve kept interest rates on hold, dealers said.


They said accompanying remarks by the Fed were taken to mean its
rate tightening cycle had ended, clearing the way for stocks to
rise generally.


Turnover was exceptionally heavy at some 22 billion dollars as
investors ploughed in so as not to miss out on the latest upturn
only three weeks after a nine percent crash in Shanghai sparked
turmoil on the global markets.


Further gains in the yuan provided additional support to a market
which has ignored the third interest rate hike in a row announced
at the weekend and seems impervious to any measures taken so far
to curb its ascent.


It may now take much stronger medicine to hold the line, with the
heavy losses in late February sparked by talk of a capital gains
tax -- a move which was no sooner floated than it was dismissed
by the authorities.


The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index, which covers both A- and
B-shares, closed up 13.85 points at 3,071.23 on turnover of
112.65 billion yuan (14.54 billion US dollars).


The inflow of fresh funds pushed the Shanghai Composite to a
record close of 3,057.38 points Wednesday, taking gains over the
last 15 months to more than 150 percent.


The Shanghai A-share Index rose 14.61 points or 0.45 percent at
3,227.02 on turnover of 112.14 billion yuan and the Shenzhen
A-share Index rose 3.08 points or 0.37 percent to 844.05, also a
record, on turnover of 58.60 billion yuan.


"The market was boosted by strong capital inflows reflected in
increased turnover, with strong gains in overseas markets really
giving investors here a shot in the arm, although there was some
profit-taking in late afternoon," said Zhang Yi, an analyst at
Yibang Investment.


Analysts said the upward momentum is likely to continue in the
near term on the back of the rising yuan.


"The upward trend is likely to be maintained ... on the back of
the strong yuan and sales of stock investment fund products which
will reach at least 50 billion yuan for March," said Cao Yan, an
analyst at Soochow Securities.


SYDNEY: Australian share prices closed up 1.60 percent with
investors buoyed by the US Federal Reserve decision to keep US
interest rates steady, dealers said.


A strong performance overnight in New York after remarks by the
Fed were taken to reflect a softer stance on monetary policy
buoyed sentiment amid speculation that local interest rates could
be headed for another hike shortly.


The benchmark SP/ASX 200 jumped 93.8 points to 5,955.7 while the
broader All Ordinaries index rose 89.1 points to 5,935.4.


Turnover was 2.01 billion shares worth 6.3 billion dollars (5.1
billion US), with rises outnumbering falls 770 to 472 and 313
stocks unchanged.


The latest gains take the market back to within sight of the
record finish of 6,044.0 points hit on February 26, just one day
before a crash in Shanghai sparked a massive sell-off across the
global markets.


Leading bank and resource stocks led the market higher, as well
as companies with major operations in the US.


"Closing above the 5,900 mark on the ASX/200 is not a bad
achievement as for the last two days the market has spent time
above that (level) before closing lower," said CMC Markets
equities analyst David Land.


"It was a fairly solid session but I wouldn't be surprised if
there's more volatility as there's still some underlying concern
about the immediate state of play."


SINGAPORE: Singapore share prices closed sharply higher, adding
2.02 percent led by banks and property stocks, dealers said.


They said investor sentiment was boosted by the possibility of US
interest rate cuts later this year, hinted at by the US Federal
Open Market Committee (FOMC) in a statement Wednesday at the
conclusion of its two-day policy meeting.


The Straits Times Index jumped 63.82 points to 3,219.51 on volume
of 1.79 billion shares worth 2.12 billion dollars (1.40 billion
US). Gainers led losers 572 to 230, with 599 stocks unchanged.


"In Singapore, if the slant towards lower interest rates
continues to play out, this is likely to favour equities in
addition to lowering interest costs for corporates," OCBC
Investment Research analyst Carmen Lee said in a note to clients.


Dealers said the worst of a recent sell-off in the market is over
but investors will remain wary of positioning too aggressively in
the near term.


"There will be more selective buying," a dealer at a local
brokerage said.


KUALA LUMPUR: Malaysian share prices closed 1.02 percent higher,
led by property and construction stocks after the government
announced investment incentives and abolished property gains tax,
dealers said.


They said overnight gains on Wall Street after the US Federal
Reserve left interest rates unchanged added to the positive tone,
with the market extending gains to a sixth day.


The Kuala Lumpur Composite Index gained 12.38 points to 1,221.72
on volume of 2.97 billion shares worth 3.18 billion ringgit
(917.09 million dollars).


Gainers led losers 841 to 148, with 177 stocks unchanged.


Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi on Thursday announced tax
cuts and other measures to attract foreign investors to develop
an ambitious project in southern Johor state.


Abdullah also said the government was abolishing property gains
tax from April 1 in a boost to the country's sluggish property
sector.


SBB Securities senior investment analyst Ng Jun Sheng said more
clarity from the US Federal Reserve and the measures announced by
Abdullah helped sentiment.


Going forward, "the market has more room to play catch-up as it
has not recovered to the levels before the (end) February sell-
down, while other regional markets, such as the Shanghai bourse,
has already returned to their previous highs," said Ng.


BANGKOK: Thai share prices closed 0.79 percent higher, joining a
global stocks rally after the US Federal Reserve left interest
rates on hold but hinted of upcoming cuts, dealers said.


They said investors bought big-cap banking stocks on the
expectation that Thai interest rate would also be reduced soon.


However, they said trading remained thin because of domestic
issues including ongoing political uncertainty.


The Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET) composite index gained 5.28
points to 674.84 while the blue-chip SET 50 index rose 4.18
points to 472.42


JAKARTA: Indonesian share prices closed 1.68 percent higher,
supported by an overnight rally in US stocks after the US Federal
Reserve left interest rates on hold, dealers said.


The Jakarta Stock Exchange composite index rose 29.829 points at
1,809.066 on volume of 2.89 billion shares worth 2.79 trillion
rupiah (306 million dollars). Gains led declines 121 to 36, with
56 stocks unchanged.


"Wall Street's rally triggered fresh buying interest across the
board," Samuel Sekuritas analyst Christine Salim said.


Salim noted that the US Federal Reserve's statement on Wednesday
hinting it may have scope to cut its benchmark interest rate
could provide room for Bank Indonesia to lower rates too.


MANILA: Philippine share prices closed 2.84 percent higher,
supported by a rally overnight on Wall Street after the US
Federal Reserve left interest rates on hold, dealers said.


However, they said the buying momentum slowed as the main index
approached another key resistance level at 3,200 points.


The composite index added 87.85 points to 3,178.32 after trading
between 3,127.27 and 3,192.53. The broader all-share index rose
42.00 points to 2,039.53. Gainers overwhelmed losers 86 to 30
with 45 stocks unchanged.


Turnover was 9.4 billion shares worth 5.4 billion pesos (112
million dollars).


As widely anticipated, the Federal Open Market Committee voted to
keep the federal funds rate target at 5.25 percent while its
comments were taken to increase the chances of a rate cut later
this year, sparking sharp gains on Wall Street.


"The bullish sentiment on Wall Street spilled over onto the local
market," said Rommel Macapagal of Westlink Global Equities.


"With a gain of over 100 points in the past two days, we don't
rule out a correction (Friday) but investors will likely take
their cue from Wall Street's performance," Macapagal added.


WELLINGTON: New Zealand share prices closed 0.58 percent higher
in the wake of a sharp rise in US stocks, dealers said.


The benchmark NZX-50 index rose 23.52 points to 4,076.03 on
turnover of 110.9 million dollars (78.6 million US).


Wall Street rallied sharply after indications from the Federal
Reserve that the next move in interest rates was likely to be
lower rather than higher.


But Goldman Sachs broker Jeremy Coe said the local and other
markets may have jumped the gun, with some interpreting the
Federal Reserve's stance as revealing worries the US economy may
go into recession.


"A lot of people are saying it could be a false rally," he said.


Market leader Telecom closed up 13 cents at 4.73 dollars, partly
on talk the sale of its directories unit will be announced any
day.


MUMBAI: Indian share prices closed 2.8 percent higher, extending
gains to a fourth day led by strong US and Asian markets after
the US Federal Reserve kept interest rates unchanged, dealers
said.


The Federal Reserve kept rates on hold at 5.25 percent after a
two-day meeting and hinted that the rate hiking cycle could be
over.


The 30-share Mumbai stock exchange Sensex index jumped past the
psychological 13,000 points level to close at 13,308.03, up
362.15 points or 2.8 percent.


The Sensex has risen 7.06 percent so far this week.


"The markets were firm, led by global trends after the US Fed
meeting," said Manoj Kakaiya, a dealer with brokerage ULJK
Securities.


"The markets may face resistance next week due to factors like
higher inflation and expiry of the monthly derivatives contract,"
he added.

