

British finance minister Gordon Brown defended his tax-slashing
budget on Thursday against charges that it was a "con trick."


Brown, a Scotsman favourite to take over as prime minister from
Tony Blair when he steps down later this year, unveiled a voter-
friendly budget on Wednesday, cutting company and income tax.


The basic income tax rate will fall from 22 percent to 20 percent
in April 2008.


But he also abolished the lowest income tax rate. The main
opposition Conservative Party used this to argue that Brown's
llth budget was a "con trick" (confidence trick) which would
leave many workers worse off.


Brown responded by Sky News on Thursday by saying: "That's
absolute nonsense."


He added: "I've tried my best by everyone ...  and what I've
tried to do is look at the needs of particular groups as we make
this major change in the tax system."


But George Osborne, Conservative shadow finance minister, said
that about 3.5 million people earning 5,000 to 18,000 pounds
(7,359 and 26,493 euros, 9,836 and 35,409 dollars) per year would
see their tax bill rise.


"Watching Gordon Brown, there's no way you would have known that.
He pulled a con trick," Osborne told GMTV.


According to Brown, average British households would be 100
pounds per year better off under the new plans, while families
with children would benefit from an additional 250 pounds.


"I've tried to look at what is happening to each of the groups --
families with children, pensioners and the low-paid workers --
and I've tried to do my best to ensure they are better off,"
Brown told BBC television.


"I wanted to make this tax simplification because I think it's
right we have a tax system that's competitive with the rest of
the world, and one which helps pensioners, families with children
and helps the low-paid."

