

Europe's main stock markets soared on Thursday after solid gains
overnight on Wall Street and earlier in Tokyo, as investors
focused on prospects for a cut in US interest rates later this
year.


In European trading, Frankfurt's DAX 30 index of leading shares
surged 1.77 percent to 6,830.68 points, in Paris the CAC 40
rallied 1.26 percent to 5,571.62 and London's FTSE 100 index rose
0.68 percent to 6,299.60 points.


The DJ Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone blue chip shares increased
1.61 percent to 4,143.83 points.


The euro stood at 1.3364 dollars.


The US stock market had climbed on Wednesday after the US Federal
Reserve kept its key short-term interest rate anchored at 5.25
percent -- and lifted hopes for an easier monetary policy later
this year.


Analysts said the stock market had gained reassurance from the
Fed's announcement, partly as some Fed watchers observed that the
central bank was now indicating a rate hike was less likely.


Stock market investors favour rate cuts, as opposed to rate rises
which increase the cost of borrowing short-term cash and finance
deals, dealers said.


Japanese share prices closed at a three-week high point on
Thursday.


In Europe, the price of shares in French civil engineering group
Eiffage shot up 4.66 percent to 89.17 euros in Paris on rumoured
interest from Spanish construction group Sacyr Vallehermoso,
market sources said.


Sacyr Vallehermoso now owns slightly more than 32.0 percent of
Eiffage and if its holding exceeds 33.3 percent it must make a
takeover bid under French law.


Financial stocks found further support from recent news that
British bank Barclays was in merger talks with Dutch group ABN
Amro.


Barclays shares rose 2.67 percent to 731.50 pence in London,
while ABN Amro stock added 1.03 percent to 31.47 euros in
Amsterdam.


Back on Wall Street, investors cheered the Fed news, sending the
Dow Jones Industrial Average 1.30 percent higher to a close of
12,447.52 points.


The Nasdaq composite surged 1.98 percent to 2,455.92 while the
broad-market Standard and Poor's 500 soared 1.71 percent to
1,435.04 points.


In Asia on Thursday, Tokyo's benchmark Nikkei-225 index of
leading shares rose 1.49 percent at 17,419.20 points -- the best
finish since March 1.


Tokyo played catch-up with two days of gains in US stocks after a
national holiday in Japan on Wednesday, dealers said.


Hong Kong's key Hang Seng Index closed 0.89 percent higher at
19,690.25 points.

