

A UN commission probing the killing of former Lebanese prime
minister Rafiq Hariri is investigating whether a Syrian Al-Qaeda
member serving a life sentence in Turkey is linked to the murder,
Turkish newspapers reported Thursday.


Two UN investigators met police, prosecutors and intelligence
officials in Istanbul and Ankara this week to gather information
on Louai Sakka, the mass- circulation Hurriyet and Sabah
newspapers reported.


The investigators -- Alasdair Mcleod of Britain and Ahmet Kaya of
Turkey -- were given copies of Sakka's testimony, reports on his
DNA profile and other forensic data as well as the verdict issued
against him by a Turkish court last month, the daily Milliyet
said.


The Turkish justice and foreign ministries refused to comment.


Sakka -- an alleged associate of Abu Musab Al-Zarqawi, the former
Al-Qaeda leader in Iraq -- was sentenced to life imprisonment for
masterminding and financing deadly suicide bombings against
Jewish and British targets in Istanbul in 2003.


The attacks, which killed 63 people and injured some 600 others
when suicide bombers rammed bomb-laden trucks into two
synagogues, the British consulate and the British bank HSBC, were
the worst terror attacks in Turkish history.


In 2005, Sakka's lawyer claimed that unidentified men tried to
press his client into testifying against Syria in connection with
the Hariri killing and threatened him with death if he did not
comply.


Hariri, who was a leading opponent of the Syrian domination of
Lebanon, was killed along with 22 others in a massive bomb blast
in Beirut on February 14, 2005.


A UN panel headed by Belgian judge Serge Brammertz has been
investigating the killing for more than a year.

