

France's presidential election is giving a major boost to TV
audience figures and newspaper sales, as voters tune in to daily
chat shows and scour the papers to pin down their choice of
candidate.


"Voters are pretty undecided, they are dealing with relatively
new personalities, a wide range of themes," explained Dominique
Quinio, director of the Catholic daily La Croix.


"They are spending a lot of time debating with relatives and
colleagues. To back up the talking they need to read up on the
issues, listen in to the debate. It's good news for democracy,
but also for the press."


Sales of most French newspapers and magazines are booming: the
news weekly Le Point says its sales figures have jumped 20
percent since January, more than in any presidential election in
25 years.


Television and radio stations have packed their schedules with
prime-time debates featuring candidates and experts, far more
than during the 2002 election, with one show managing to beat a
10-year audience record.


More than eight million viewers tuned in to watch the right-wing
frontrunner Nicolas Sarkozy and his Socialist rival Segolene each
confront a panel of voters on TF1 television.


Even the youth radio Skyrock has invited Sarkozy, Royal and their
centrist rival Francois Bayrou on the air.


But the political daily Liberation -- which has shifted its
editorial line leftwards under a new management -- says its sales
appear to be tied to the fortunes of the Socialist candidate.


"When Segolene is doing well, our sales are good. When she is in
trouble, we keep on selling, but not so much," said its managing
editor Laurent Joffrin.

