

The widow of the late Pakistan cricket coach Bob Woolmer on
Thursday said there was a "possibility" her husband was murdered.


In an interview with Britain's Sky News television from her home
in South Africa, Gill Woolmer was asked about claims her husband
was murdered after he was found unconscious in a hotel room in
Jamaica and later died in hospital.


"I suppose there is always the possibility," she said, apparently
contradicting statements she made to Indian television late
Wednesday in which she dismissed the possibility of a conspiracy
or a match-fixing link.


"I mean some of the cricketing fraternity, fans are extremely
volatile and passionate about the game and what happens in the
game, and also a lot of it in Asia, so I suppose there is always
the possibility that it could be that."


She added: "It fills me with horror, I just can't believe that
people could behave like that or that anyone would want to harm
someone who has done such a great service to international
cricket."


Police in Jamaica have said they are treating 58-year-old
Woolmer's death on Sunday -- which came after Pakistan's shock
exit from the World Cup following a defeat to minnows Ireland --
as "suspicious".


In the following days, there have been claims the former England
international may have been killed by "match-fixing mafia".


Asked about the police terminology, Gill Woolmer said: "I don't
really know, it does suggest that there might be foul play, but
they obviously don't want to jump to conclusions and want to make
sure that they're able to make the right decision after they have
completed the tests."


She added: "The latest that we heard last night (Wednesday), was
that the police are obviously going on with their investigation
and they had a second pathologist coming in to give their second
opinion and they are hoping that the results will be available
today."

