

New car registrations in Europe fell 0.3 percent in March over 12
months, with firm growth in new EU states easing the impact of
weakness in older members, the European automobile association
ACEA said on Friday.


Registrations of new passenger cars in Europe -- comprising the
EU members except Cyprus and Malta, plus Iceland, Norway and
Switzerland -- totalled 1.822 million units in March compared to
1.828 million a year earlier.


"This relatively weak result was affected by one working day less
across the whole region and mixed performance on the main
markets," ACEA said in a statement.


"Western Europe remained on a downward trend in the first quarter
of 2007 while the new EU members further improved their result,"
it added.


Registrations in western Europe fell 1.1 percent, with the German
market seeing a drop of 6.6 percent in line with a downward trend
since the beginning of the year when value added tax was hiked
three full percentage points.


With the exception of Hungary and Slovakia, consumers in eastern
European countries kept up a buying spree underway since they
joined the EU in 2004 with registrations across the region
surging ahead 13.8 percent.


Among the major brands, Europe's leading carmaker VW Group saw
sales grow 1.5 percent in March over one year while France's PSA
Group, the second-biggest European carmaker, saw sales ease 0.5
percent.


They were followed by US carmakers Ford, which saw sales rise 0.5
percent, and GM, which saw sales fall 2.5 percent.


Fiat's recovery after several lean years continued to gather
steam as its sales surged 6.2 percent while Renault's sales
tumbled 10.8 percent.


Toyota enjoyed strong growth in February with its sales rising
4.7 percent while German luxury car maker DaimlerChrysler saw
sales drop 6.7 percent and rival BMW saw a slump of 5.6 percent

