

Argentine football idol Diego Maradona was hospitalized again
Friday with abdominal pain, two days after being released after
treatment for hepatitis and other effects of alcohol abuse, his
doctor said.


Maradona, 46, was taken to the emergency ward of a hospital 30
kilometers (19 miles) south of Buenos Aires early in the morning
said Alfredo Cahe, who added his life was not in danger.


"There is no risk to his life. He entered the hospital with a
strong abdominal pain," Cahe said in a terse statement to Radio
del Plata.


Maradona was accompanied to the hospital by his girlfriend
Veronica Ojeda, in whose house he was staying after being
discharged from a private Buenos Aires hospital on Wednesday.


The former captain of Argentina's winning World Cup side and star
for Barcelona and Napoli spent 13 days in the hospital from late
March to be treated for excessive drinking which sparked a return
of chronic hepatitis, which he has suffered for years.


He only checked out two days ago, with his doctor saying he may
have to continue treatment for alcoholism for the rest of his
life.


But on Wednesday he announced he was healthy enough to attend a
game this coming Sunday at Bombonera stadium to watch his old
team Boca Juniors play rival River Plate.


"On Sunday I will go (to the stadium), with IV, with my doctor,
in ambulance, however," Maradona said in a telephone interview
with TyC Sports channel, predicting that Boca would win.


Maradona, who has a special booth at the "Candy Box," as the fans
call the stadium, vowed to go see Boca "until I use the last drop
of my blood."


It is not the first time Maradona, named one of the 20th
century's greatest players after leading his squad to the 1986
World Cup title, has been hospitalized due to his excessive
lifestyle.


His career on and off the football field has been marred by
repeated drug and alcohol abuse. He has suffered from hepatitis B
since 1991, when he played for Barcelona.


He was hospitalized in 2000 and 2004 for heart attacks provoked
by cocaine overdoses.


But according to Cahe, this time Maradona has acknowledged his
problems.


"Diego is very intelligent, extremely intuitive," Cahe said
Wednesday. "It is difficult to maintain with him a dialogue with
questions and answers, but he knows how to listen.


"His physical and psychological evolution is so good, even I am
astonished," Cahe told reporters.


The star, who was rushed to the clinic on March 28, lost between
six and seven kilos (13 and 15 pounds) during the hospital stay,
Cahe said.


Maradona "is lucid, coherent, calm," said Daniel Tejada, one of
the two psychiatrists who looked after him at the hospital.

