

The chief minister of Malaysia's eastern Sarawak state Friday
threatened legal action over reports he received millions of
dollars in kickbacks from nine Japanese shipping firms.


Sarawak chief minister Abdul Taib Mahmud has been in the
spotlight after Japanese newspaper reports last month said
companies importing logs from Malaysia paid him at least 1.1
billion yen (9.3 million dollars) over seven years.


The reports said the money was handed over to facilitate trade
with timber-rich Sarawak, and was paid via a brokering company in
Hong Kong.


Abdul Taib's press secretary, Amin Sahmat, said Friday the chief
minister had been in touch with his lawyers over the reports.


"We just want to say that he instructed his solictors to take any
appropriate legal action to clear his name," Amin told AFP.


He said the chief minister's lawyers would be examining reports
to determine if they were defamatory.


"It depends on the lawyers," he said.


Pressure has been mounting for an inquiry, with Prime Minister
Abdullah Ahmad Badawi late Thursday saying it was up to the
country's Anti-Corruption Agency (ACA) to take up the matter, and
that a formal report was needed.


"It should be a proper report. If that is done, then
investigations can be carried out," he told reporters.


Newspaper reports Friday said the ACA's acting director-general
Ahmad Said Hamdan had promised the agency would look into the
allegations.


Citing unnamed sources, Japanese newspaper reports late March
said the nine firms, in a cartel for importing logs, paid
abnormally large commission fees to the Hong-Kong based broker,
linked to Abdul Taib and his family.


It said the firms in the cartel had paid the fees to the broker,
Regent Star, which merely negotiated the amount of the payments
without providing any actual brokering services.

