

A powerful earthquake in Indonesia caused one of the greatest
mass deaths of corals after lifting up an entire island and
exposing most of its reefs, an environmental group said Friday.


Most the coral reefs ringing the island of Simeulue, near
Sumatra, were exposed after the 2005 quake raised them, the
Wildlife Conservation Society said after researching the issue
last month.


"This is a story of mass mortality on a scale rarely observed,"
Stuart Campbell, a marine expert from the organisation, said in a
statement.


"In contrast to other threats like coral bleaching, none of the
corals uplifted by the earthquake have survived," he said.


But at many sites the worst-affected species were beginning to
recolonise areas of shallow reef, he said.


"The reefs appear to be returning to what they looked like before
the earthquake, although the process may take many years," he
said.


The 8.7-magnitude quake struck in March 2005, killing hundreds of
people in nearby Nias island. It lifted Simeulue up about 1.2
metres (four feet).


The corals exposed around the island, which has a perimeter of
about 300 kilometres (185 miles), are very well preserved, said
Australian coral reef expert Andrew Baird.


"This is a unique opportunity to document a process that occurs
maybe once a century and promises to provide new insights into
coral recovery processes that until now we could only explore on
fossil reefs," he said.


Indonesia's vast coral reefs are popular with tourists on diving
holidays, but are under threat from human activities such as
coral mining and illegal fishing.


The country, a sprawling archipelago of 17,000 islands, is
frequently hit by earthquakes and volcanic eruptions.


The 2005 quake occurred just three months after the earthquake-
triggered Indian Ocean tsunami, which claimed about 168,000 lives
in Aceh on Sumatra's northern tip.

