

Authorities in revolt-hit Indian Kashmir have charged ten
security personnel and a civilian with the murder of a Muslim
cleric.


The charges, announced late on Thursday, were the latest to be
laid against security forces after authorities in February
exhumed the bodies of five people killed and passed off as
militants by authorities.


"The accused were charged with hatching a criminal conspiracy,
abduction with the intent to murder, murder and destruction of
evidence," senior police officer Javid Koul told reporters in the
summer capital Srinagar.


The cleric, Shaukat Ahmed, disappeared in Srinagar last October.
His relatives allege that police arrested and later killed him
during a staged gunbattle and pretended he was an Islamic
militant.


The army and police had claimed to have killed a Pakistani
militant last October, but DNA tests conducted on Ahmed's body
matched with his relatives.


Police and security forces are awarded cash and promotions for
killing Islamic militants in the state, where an insurgency
against New Delhi's rule has raged since 1989 and claimed at
least 42,000 lives.


The scandal has led to mass protests in Kashmir and calls by
human rights groups and state political leaders to punish the
guilty.


Indian human rights groups say 8,000 Kashmiri Muslims have
disappeared since the insurgency began, most after being detained
by security forces, who have broad powers of arrest in the
restive Himalayan state. The government says between 1,000 and
3,900 are missing.


Local newspapers quoted police as saying the army was not
cooperating in the probe into the cleric's death -- a charge the
military denied.


"We met with police investigators last month and assured them of
our full cooperation," Colonel A.K. Mathur told AFP.


"The army wants to uphold human rights at any cost," he said,
adding that the army has not yet received a copy of the charges.


Mathur said the military was also conducting its own enquiry into
Ahmed's death.

