

Europe's main stock markets rose on Friday, with the energy
sector lifted by higher crude oil prices, dealers said.


However, gains were capped by investor caution ahead of inflation
data in the United States and a meeting of Group of Seven (G7)
finance ministers and central bankers this weekend.


In late morning trade on Friday, London's FTSE 100 index of
leading shares added 0.22 percent to 6,430.50 points, Frankfurt's
DAX 30 gained 0.38 percent to 7,169.81 and in Paris the CAC 40
increased 0.20 percent to 5,760.21 points.


The DJ Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone blue chip shares won 0.29
percent to 4,292.51 points.


The euro stood at 1.3527 dollars after earlier hitting 1.3534
dollars, the highest level since January 3, 2005, on expectations
of rising eurozone interest rates, analysts said.


US shares closed higher Thursday as bargain hunters snapped up
stocks following hefty losses in the prior day's trading session,
dealers said.


Japanese share prices skidded lower Friday as investors waited
nervously to see whether G7 ministers would discuss the weakness
of the yen this weekend in Washington.


In Europe, energy companies were boosted by rising crude oil
prices, which increase their profits.


The price of Brent North Sea crude struck a seven-month high of
69.59 dollars a barrel in early London trading Friday on concerns
that current oil supplies may not be sufficient to meet demand,
traders said.


In London, shares in energy giant BP leapt 2.04 percent to 574.5
pence, and Anglo-Dutch peer Royal Dutch Shell saw its 'B' shares
climb 1.71 percent to 1,727 pence.


In Paris, shares in oil and gas group Total jumped 1.06 percent
to 53.5 euros.


Frankfurt's best performer was SAP, the world's leading maker of
business software, whose share price rocketed 3.98 percent to
35.75 euros amid takeover talk, and after broker Merrill Lynch
repeated its 'buy' rating on the stock.


"There are some far-flung rumours going around of a possible
takeover from Microsoft, but this reiteration has been the main
event today for SAP shares," one anonymous Frankfurt trader said.


In US deals on Thursday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average
finished up 0.55 percent at 12,552.96 points after opening lower
in morning trading.


The Nasdaq composite closed up 0.85 percent at 2,480.32 points
and the Standard and Poor's 500 broad-market index gained 0.62
percent to 1,447.80.


Traders voiced optimism that the hangover from Wednesday's Wall
Street sell off had abated after the minutes of a US Federal
Reserve meeting dashed investors hopes of interest rate cuts
anytime soon.


In Asia on Friday, Tokyo's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
tumbled 1.01 percent to close at 17,363.95 points. Hong Kong's
key Hang Seng Index closed down 0.19 percent at 20,340.97.

