

Nicolas Sarkozy, the leading candidate in the race to become
France's next president, came under attack Friday for allegedly
cosying up to the far-right leader Jean-Marie Le Pen.


The call by a top Sarkozy advisor for the introduction of
proportional representation in parliamentary elections was the
latest proof that for months Sarkozy has been "seeking to move
closer to the National Front," said the centrist presidential
candidate Francois Bayrou.


Proportional representation would make it easier for smaller
parties such as Le Pen's National Front to enter parliament, in
which under the current first-past- the-post system they fail to
get any seats.


Brice Hortefeux, a senior advisor to Sarkozy, said Thursday that
some seats in parliament should be set aside for election by
proportional representation.


Other Sarkozy advisors said Friday that Hortefeux's views did not
commit the Union for a Popular Movement (UMP) candidate in any
way.


Sarkozy has been until now the only one of the four leading
candidates not to make favourable noises about proportional
representation.


Bayrou, who is in third place in the polls, told French radio
Friday that there are "lots of signs, lots of statements that
show Nicolas Sarkozy has decided to move closer to the National
Front ahead of the first round" on April 22.


The Socialists, whose candidate Segelone Royal is in second place
in the polls, have also accused the National Front and the UMP of
making secret deals.

