

Australian share prices closed down 0.37 percent Friday as
investors took profits after the market hit record levels during
the week, dealers said.


Increased speculation of a rise in official interest rates also
weighed on sentiment, they said.


The key SP/ASX 200 fell 22.5 points to 6,135.7 while the broader
All Ordinaries dropped 19.0 points to 6,123.8.


Turnover was 2.04 billion shares worth 6.51 billion dollars (5.39
billion US). Rises outnumbered falls 646 to 636 and 317 stocks
were unchanged.


Dealers said the Australian market was pulled back by profit
taking and the expectation of an interest rate hike in May.


Meanwhile, concerns the Dow Jones index may fall due to profit-
taking as well as Friday's fall on the Japanese market also
supported selling momentum, Bell Potter Securities private client
advisor Stuart Smith said.


"I think we're just exhibiting a bit of caution today coming into
the weekend," Smith said.


CMC Markets senior dealer James Foulsham said the Australian
dollar, which hit its highest level since October 1990 on Friday,
also held the market down.


"With the Australian dollar continuing its rally through the 0.83
US dollar level, companies like Westfield that generate a lot of
their earnings in the US have been the hardest hit by the move,"
Foulsham said.


Property stocks such as Westfield and Stockland were also down on
speculation of higher interest rates and the impact this would
have on earnings, dealers said.


Westfield shares fell 0.38 dollars to 20.90 dollars and Stockland
dropped 0.07 dollars to close at 8.68 dollars.


The major banks were mostly higher. National Australia Bank rose
0.26 to 42.56, Commonwealth Bank added 0.20 to 51.80, ANZ gained
0.15 to 30.33 and Westpac was unchanged at 26.29.


Woodside Petroleum was higher thanks to the oil price rising
overnight. Woodside gained 0.65 to 39.80 while Oil Search added
0.05 to 3.55 and Santos dropped 0.09 to 10.51.


Market heavyweight BHP Billiton was down 0.38 to close at 29.85
and rival mining giant Rio Tinto retreated 1.57 to 82.20.


Among other major companies, telco Telstra slipped 0.07 to 4.81
and national airline Qantas eased 0.01 to 5.38.

