

General Motors is considering marketing other models made by its
German arm Opel in the US, on top of the flagship Astra which is
scheduled to be launched in North America at the end of 2007, a
source close to the company said on Friday.


GM, the world's number one car maker, "is considering exporting
small fuel- efficient models to the US" under the Saturn brand,
the source said.


Opel's small Corsa and Vectra models were being looked at in
particular for possible US launch, the source said, confirming
corresponding press reports.


A decision would be reached in the coming months.


A report in the Friday edition of Financial Times Deutschland
said that GM was set to market the new Opel Corsa in the US from
the end of this year.


The business daily Handelsblatt said that Opel's Vectra Caravan,
built at the home site of Ruesselsheim outside Frankfurt, could
be exported to the US at the end of 2009, with target sales of
40,000-50,000 annually.


GM had announced in December that it would market the Astra,
Opel's flagship model, as Saturn Astra in the United States and
Canada from the end of 2007.


The Saturn Astra would be nearly identical to the new version of
the Opel Astra, unveiled at the recent Bologna Motor Show in
Italy.


It will be sold in the US and Canada in three-door and five-door
configurations.


The decision to export Opel's Astra to the US is part of GM's
strategy to meet growing demand in the region for smaller cars
that do not consume as much as petrol.


The launch would also enable GM to cut overcapacity at its
European sites.

