

Australian shares ended a record week weighed down by weaker
Asian markets and a strong currency, and with next week's
performance hinging on Wall Street's prospects, dealers said
Friday.


For the week ending April 13, the benchmark SP/ASX 200 gained
58.6 points to close at 6,135.7 after hitting a record close of
6,158.2 on Thursday.


Dealers said profit-taking and speculation of an interest rate
hike held the market back on Friday, but there were also concerns
the Dow Jones could fall due to investors taking gains.


The release of US economic data in the week ahead, combined with
a continued weakness in Asian markets, could lead to a volatile
week, they said.


Bell Potter Securities private client advisor Stuart Smith said
the Australian market would likely follow Wall Street in the
coming week.


"Most definitely we will respond to whatever the US does," he
said.


"No doubt we'll also get plenty of press surrounding local M and
A activity and interest rate sentiment," Smith added.


CommSec equities economist Martin Arnold said the All Ordinaries
had reached fresh record levels, underpinned by strong gains in
the mining sector and merger and acquisition activity.


"Investment by private equity funds will continue to buoy the
sharemarket but may also increase volatility in coming months,"
he said.


Arnold said despite questions about whether the sharemarket was
overheating, the All Ordinaries index appeared to remain
relatively attractive.


"However, the index has already gained nearly nine percent over
the first three months of 2007," he said.


"CommSec expects around 15 percent growth (including dividends)
for the sharemarket over the whole of 2007, so we anticipate some
consolidation in the months ahead."

