

Cuba's President Fidel Castro is getting better, putting on
weight and taking part in making key government decisions, the
country's foreign minister said Friday on a visit to Vietnam.


"The health of President Fidel Castro has improved notably," said
Foreign Minister Felipe Perez Roque on a three-day visit to the
Southeast Asian communist ally. "He is improving continually and
substantially."


Castro was exercising, keeping himself informed on world affairs
and taking part in the country's decision-making process, he
said.


Cuba's 80-year-old leader has only rarely been heard from or seen
in photos or news video since he underwent gastrointestinal
surgery last July and handed over power temporarily to his
brother Raul.


However he has in recent weeks assailed US President George W.
Bush and the United States in a series of articles as many of
Castro's associates and friends have said he is now recovering
steadily.


In Hanoi, Roque also said Cuban-Vietnamese political and
diplomatic relations could not be better and that Havana backed
Hanoi's bid for a non-permanent seat on the UN Security Council
from next year.


He thanked Vietnam for supplying Cuba with rice, the island's
food staple, but said there was room for growth in economic
relations in biotechnology, energy, information technology and
pharmaceuticals.


The minister, who arrived from India and met his Vietnamese
counterpart Pham Gia Khiem on Friday, was also due to meet Prime
Minister Nguyen Tan Dung and party chief Nong Duc Manh before
flying on to China on Sunday.

