

A Pakistani mullah whose mosque is locked in a standoff with the
government over its attempts to impose Islamic justice said
Friday that he did not want bloodshed and was ready for
negotiations.


The Lal Masjid, or Red Mosque, in Islamabad and its attached male
and female religious schools have challenged the government of
President Pervez Musharraf and launched Taliban-style morality
patrols against music and video shops.


Chief cleric Abdul Aziz a week ago threatened "thousands" of
suicide attacks if the government launched a raid against the
mosque, while his deputy said this week that the mosque had guns
on the premises.


"Our purpose is to put pressure on the government for the
imposition of the Islamic system in the country, we don't want
bloodshed, but want a peaceful revolution," Aziz said in a sermon
at traditional Friday prayers.


"Our doors are open for negotiations, but we will not abandon our
stand to impose the Islamic system in the entire country," he
said.


Aziz last week announced the formation of an Islamic Sharia
court, which two days later issued a fatwa, or religious decree,
against female Tourism Minister Nilofar Bakhtiar for hugging her
paragliding coach during a trip to France.


Military ruler Musharraf's government has said it is continuing
negotiations with the mosque's leaders despite public pressure to
tackle what has been described as "Talibanisation" in the heart
of the capital.


Last month male and female students from the mosque's schools
briefly kidnapped two policemen and three women including an
alleged brothel owner.


They have also refused to vacate a government library for
children they occupied in January in protest at the demolition of
several mosques that authorities said were built on illegally
occupied land.

