

Turkish police have arrested two suspects believed to be behind a
series bomb attacks last year at a popular southwestern resort
that injured 10 British tourists, the Anatolia news agency
reported Friday.


A total of 21 people were hurt on August 27 in the blasts that
shook the resort of Marmaris, a popular destination for British
vacationers.


The suspects, identified only by their initials U.A. and S.G.,
were captured in the Aegean city of Izmir and were currently
being questioned by anti-terrorist police, Anatolia said.


Both men were suspected to be responsible for a hand grenade
attack in September last year on a checkpoint near a village
north of Marmaris that left a paramilitary soldier injured.


Police were looking for one other suspect, it added.


Last year, a man believed to be the mastermind behind the
Marmaris bombings was arrested in southeastern Turkey.


A radical Kurdish group calling itself the Kurdistan Freedom
Falcons (TAK), had claimed reponsibility for the Marmaris
bombings which it said were a response to Ankara's "mistreatment"
of its Kurdish population and of Kurdish rebel leader Abdullah
Ocalan, who is serving a life sentence on a prison island.


In a statement last month, the group -- blamed for several other
bomb attacks in Turkey last year -- threatened to hit tourist
areas and warned European visitors to stay away.


Turkish officials say TAK is a front which the Kurdistan Workers'
Party (PKK), a separatist group seeking self-rule in Turkey's
mainly Kurdish southeast, uses for attacks on civilian targets.


The PKK claims TAK is a splinter group over which it has no
control.


Friday's arrests came at a time when the Turkish army was
carrying out large- scale operations to crack down on Kurdish
rebels with the advent of spring, which is the time when the
rebels usually step up attacks.


Turkish army chief Yasar Buyukanit said Thursday that clashes
this month had left 10 Turkish soldiers and 29 PKK rebels dead.

