

Senior South African Catholic clerics visiting Zimbabwe have
condemned regional leaders for failing to curb President Robert
Mugabe's violent crackdown on political opposition.


Archbishop Buti Tlagale of Johannesburg and Bishop Kevin Dowling
of Rustenburg, said leaders of the 14-nation Southern African
Development Community (SADC) were lending tacit approval to
Mugabe's tactics.


"The church is challenging SADC leaders because they are silent
and letting this oppression go on," Bishop Dowling said during a
prayer service in Bulawayo late Thursday.


"Our political leaders by their silence are cooperating in the
oppression of Zimbabweans and we are going to tell this," he
said.


The two bishops, who were hosted by Bulawayo Archbishop Pius
Ncube -- an outspoken critic of Mugabe -- compared the current
situation in Zimbabwe to that of South Africa under apartheid.


"Apartheid did what the current regime is doing to Zimbabweans.
Listening to your stories has helped us remember and realise that
the oppression here and the oppression we endured is very
similar," Dowling said.


Archbishop Tlagale said churches in Zimbabwe and the region had a
duty to work for social change by mounting visible and sustained
campaigns "until evil dissipates."


The service was marked by police interference, with some
Zimbabwean pastors scheduled to address the service prevented
from talking.


Pastor Raymond Motsi of the Christian Alliance, a group of
clerics coordinating the Save Zimbabwe Campaign, was picked up by
police and questioned before being released an hour later.

