

Hollywood star Nicole Kidman received an Australian government
honour Friday, saying it would make her parents more proud than
her Oscar.


The elegant strawberry blonde was appointed a "Companion in the
General Division of the Order of Australia (AC)" at a ceremony at
Government House in Canberra.


With country-crooner husband Keith Urban, a fellow Australian, at
her side, Kidman ditched red-carpet glamour for a demure pink
frock to receive her award from Governor-General Michael Jeffery.


She was given the honour for her contribution to the arts and her
charity work.


"I think the great thing about you, Ms. Kidman, is what have you
have done to better the human condition," the governor-general
said.


"You have become become an honorary ambassador to UNICEF and
UNIFEM (the United Nations Development Fund for Women), you're
looking after children and women's issues.


"You've been a great support for children at Sydney hospital and
a great supporter of research for cancer.


"Not only are you a tremendous actress but you are a great
attribute to the nation."


With her parents Janelle and Antony in the audience, Kidman said
they would be more proud than when she won an Oscar for
portraying Virginia Woolf in "The Hours."


"It's a pat on the back, which as a little girl is something I
think you dream of," she said.


Kidman was named a granted the honour last year but international
commitments prevented her from travelling to Australia to receive
the award in person.


She is now back in her home country to film a Baz Lurhmann movie
"Australia," and took a break from preparations to fly to
Canberra for the ceremony.


The Hollywood beauty, known here as "our Nic," lined up with
other recipients for her Australia Day honour, having turned down
the offer of a private investiture.

