

Japan's House of Representatives on Friday passed a controversial
bill to pave the way to start revising the pacifist constitution
imposed after World War II.


The lower house took a standing vote to approve the bill, which
would establish a national referendum on rewriting the
constitution.


Conservative Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's coalition holds an
overwhelming majority in the lower house and easily passed the
bill, which will now go to the upper house where its approval is
also likely.


Abe, who has vowed to create a more assertive Japan, has made
revising the pacifist constitution, imposed by US occupiers in
1947, the top item on his political agenda.


The referendum would not be on a new text itself, but would
establish measures to revise it, as the current constitution is
unclear on how to amend the nation's top law.


Abe, who is facing waning poll numbers, wants the referendum bill
to become law during the current parliament session scheduled to
run until June 23. Japan holds elections for the upper house in
July.


The main opposition Democratic Party, which holds 112 seats in
the 480-member lower house, agrees in principle to revising the
constitution.


But it unsuccessfully submitted an alternative bill calling for
referenda on a wider scope of topics, not only constitutional
reform.


Opposition members briefly scuffled with ruling party lawmakers
on Thursday when a lower house panel approved the bill.


The constitution bars Japan from using or even threatening to use
force as a way to settle international disputes, although the
country skirts the rule by calling its troops "Self-Defence
Forces."


Domestic polls show public support for a constitutional revision,
although most voters oppose an outright rejection of pacifism.


The constitutional revision also risks upsetting other Asian
countries resentful over Japan's past aggression, although
Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao was conciliatory on history issues
during his visit to Japan this week.

