

Chinese share prices closed 0.36 percent lower Friday as
investors booked profits to snap a nine day winning streak that
had lifted stocks to repeated record gains, dealers said.


They said that trade was very heavy again running at over 30
billion dollars as financial stocks and steelmakers lost ground
in a volatile session that saw the key index climb into positive
territory before succumbing to selling.


But sustained fresh fund inflows continue to drive stocks against
the backdrop of a fast growing economy, with the market looking
to corporate results for its next immediate lead.


Despite repeated cautions from some analysts about the risk of a
significant correction, especially once the results season closes
at the end of the month, investors now seem only intent on
getting into a market that is up about 180 percent since January
2006.


The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index, which covers A and
B-shares, closed down 12.76 points at 3,518.27 on record turnover
of 166.49 billion yuan (21.54 billion US dollars). The key index
rose 5.86 percent for the week.


The Shanghai A-share Index fell 13.77 points or 0.37 percent at
3,698.45 on turnover of 165.57 billion yuan while the Shenzhen
A-share Index finished down 0.32 points or 0.03 percent at 992.94
on turnover of 90.32 billion yuan.


"Some investors chose to take profits ahead of the weekend, and
this is a healthy sign after recent strong across-the-board
gains," said Wang Sai, an analyst at Wanguo Consulting.


But buying is expected to return next week due to expectations
for more strong corporate earnings results.


"The strong performance is likely to continue over the next week,
as more companies issue their annual and quarterly results, most
of which are believed to be stronger-than-market expectations,"
said Wang Jun, an analyst at Merchants Securities.


Among financials, Huaxia Bank was down 0.39 yuan at 11.30, while
CITIC Securities lost 1.46 yuan or 2.90 percent to 48.92 and Hong
Yuan Securities was down 0.81 yuan or 2.89 percent


Bengang Steel Plates tumbled 0.65 yuan or 5.41 percent to 11.36,
while Jinan Iron Steel slipped down 0.81 yuan or 5.17 percent to
14.86.


Food stocks were boosted on hopes for solid earnings growth due
to increased domestic consumption, dealers said.


Yantai Changyu Pioneer Wine was up its 10 percent daily limit to
61.27 yuan, while Wuliangye Yibinwas rose 3.47 yuan or 9.93
percent to 38.43.


Gansu Huangtai Wine-Marketing Industry gained 0.43 yuan or 5.45
percent to 8.32.


Anhui Conch Cement rose 1.16 yuan or 2.99 percent to 40.02 after
reporting first quarter net profit growth of 250.94 percent under
Chinese accounting standards to 1.43 billion yuan, driven by
strong sales and higher selling prices.


The Shanghai B-share Index was up 2.10 points to 190.33 on
turnover of 915.0 million dollars and the Shenzhen B-share Index
rose 0.59 points at 547.12, a fresh high, on turnover of 753.42
million Hong Kong dollars (97.46 million dollars).

