

Falling in love costs nothing -- but falling out, for celebrities
like basketballer Michael Jordan and pop crooner Neil Diamond --
can cost a fortune.


Jordan and Diamond are each paying out an estimated 150 million
dollars to their spouses to top the Forbes list of the most
expensive celebrity divorces, published by the US financial
magazine Friday.


And with celebrity splits far more frequent than those of mere
mortals, Forbes said, "Who did what to whom is far less important
in a celebrity divorce than who gives what to whom."


Jordan, the retired legend of the National Basketball
Association, is still waiting to finalize the ink on his break-up
with Juanita Vanoy Jordan, the bank officer he married in 1989 as
he dominated NBA courts.


But Forbes estimates it will cost him more than 150 million
dollars, less than half of the estimated 350 million he took in
during their marriage.


At that level, Forbes said, it would be the most expensive
celebrity divorce ever.


Diamond, the current record-holder, paid out 150 million dollars
in a settlement with his wife of 25 years, Marcia Murphey, after
their divorce in 1994 years. Forbes said she took half of the
fortune of the singer of hits like "I Am...I Said" and "Solitary
Man", and quoted Diamond as later saying she was "worth every
penny."


Third on the list is top Hollywood director Stephen Spielberg,
who divorced Amy Irving in 1989 four years after marrying her to
the tune of 100 million dollars, Forbes estimates. That was about
half of his fortune then -- more than a faulty prenuptial
agreement accorded her -- but pales compared to his now three
billion dollar net worth.


Rounding out the top 10 of big-time divorce settlements:


Actor Harrison Ford and Melissa Mathison split in 2004 after 21
years together, settling for 85 million dollars.


Actor Kevin Costner and Cindy Silva divorced in 1994 after 16
years together, Costner's cost 80 million.


Beatle Paul McCartney and Heather Mills, 60 million dollars in
2007 after five years together; "Titanic" director James Cameron
and Linda Hamilton, 50 million in 1999 after 18 months wed; actor
Michael Douglas and Diandra Douglas, 45 million dollars plus two
homes in 1998 after 21 years married; singer Lionel Richie and
Diane Richie, divorced in 2004 after eight years together and
settling for 20 million; and Sir Mick Jagger of the Rolling
Stones, who divorced supermodel Jerry Hall in 1999 for a payout
of between 15 and 25 million dollars, after 22 years together.

