

Five European countries and the European Commission signed an
accord on Friday under which they will give 5.2 million dollars
for administrative reforms within the Palestinian presidency.


The agreement was signed at president Mahmud Abbas's office by
his chief of staff, Rafiq al-Husseini, and representatives from
Britain, Denmark, Italy, Norway and Sweden.


"This aid will allow us to improve the work, the performance and
the running of the presidency," Husseini said after the signing.


The European Union, the biggest aid donor to the Palestinians,
imposed an embargo on direct aid to the Palestinian Authority
last year along with the United States after the Islamist
movement Hamas formed a cabinet alone.


The EU and the US, which consider Hamas a terror group, have
declined to lift the embargo following the formation of a
national unity government on March 17 between Hamas and Abbas's
Fatah.


Norway, which is not part of the 27-member bloc, has recognised
the new cabinet and pledged to resume direct aid, but the EU has
said it would continue to channel donor funds via mechanisms that
bypass the government.


The international relief agency Oxfam on Friday urged the EU to
lift the suspension of aid to the Palestinian government.


"Europe's foreign ministers should not miss the opportunity of
their forthcoming meeting ... to restore the faith of
Palestinians in the European Union," Oxfam International
Executive Director Jeremy Hobbs said.


The ministers are due to hold their talks on April 23 and 24 in
Luxembourg.


"With Palestinian institutions collapsing and insecurity growing,
the resumption of international aid to the Palestinian Authority
is a necessary step to preventing further suffering and securing
a just and lasting settlement on the basis of international law,"
said Hobbs.

