

An angry mob of pyramid salesmen used iron bars and bricks to
beat up police officers, leaving one in critical condition, when
a raid in southeast China turned violent, state media said
Friday.


The clash erupted Thursday when police in Jiujiang city in
Jiangxi province were tipped off about an illegal pyramid scheme
in a closed-down factory, the People's Daily reported on its
website.


Police burst in just as more than 100 people were receiving
instruction in pyramid sales basics, according to the report.


The salesmen retaliated, beating up not just the police officers
but also a journalist and an official from the industrial and
commerce administration, it said.


One of the officers received such severe chest injuries he was in
critical condition, according to the report.


A pyramid scheme is ostensibly centred around selling a product
or service, but where the real money is made hiring new
salespeople.


A new entrant must pay a commission to the salesman who hires him
and must in turn hire new recruits in order to get his money
back.


It is illegal in China as the government fears that the schemes,
once they unravel, will spark unrest as the most recent recruits
are unable to get their money back.


The People's Daily said police has detained more than 40 people
accused of attacking the investigators.


Pyramid selling was banned in 1998 but cases still occur. One was
reported in February, in which 20,000 people were allegedly
swindled out of a total of more than 1.6 billion yuan (206
million dollars).

