

Bangladesh security forces arrested an influential former
minister Friday, police said, as the military-backed government
stepped up its nationwide crackdown on corruption.


Moudud Ahmed, a law minister of the outgoing government and a top
member of Khaleda Zia's Bangladesh Nationalist Party (BNP), was
arrested at his home early in the morning.


"He was arrested on corruption (charges) after relief materials
for poor people were found at his house," local police chief
Obaidul Haq said.


Ahmed has served as a minister in almost every cabinet since
Bangladesh became independent in 1971. In late 1980s he was the
prime minister in military strongman General Hussain Muhammad
Ershad's government.


His arrest came as Zia was put under virtual house arrest while
her main rival Sheikh Hasina delayed her return to the country
after she was charged with murder during political violence last
year.


Bangladesh has been under a state of emergency since January 11
after the country's president cancelled polls scheduled for
January 22 and installed a military-backed government.


The government has already curbed freedom of speech, banned
politics and vowed to clean up the country.


At least 50 top politicians have been arrested as part of the
anti-graft crackdown, including Zia's once influential son
Tareque Rahman.


There has been widespread media speculation that the government
is seeking to force both Hasina, 60, and Zia, 61, whose dynasties
ruled the country for a combined 25 years since independence in
1971, into political exile.


Emergency rule has been popular among Bangladeshis, who appear to
be in no hurry to return to destructive political infighting.

