

Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo on Friday said his
government would deal firmly with any acts of violence or fraud
during the staggered polls starting this weekend in Africa's
biggest democracy.


"Let me assure all Nigerians that the federal government will
leave no stone unturned in vigorously checking and sanctioning
any acts of violence and thuggery and other excesses calculated
to disturb the peace or disrupt the elections," Obasanjo said in
a radio and television broadcast.


More than 100 people have died in election-related violence
across Nigeria since November 2006, according to a recent report
by the New York-based rights watchdog Human Rights Watch.


Local media also report daily election-related killings across
the country, Africa's most populous nation and top oil producer.


Obasanjo, a combative ex-general who was re-elected in 2003 in
Nigeria's first civilian-run presidential election in 20 years,
is stepping down after a second term.


The gruff leader said the Independent National Electoral
Commission (INEC) and other government agencies had taken steps
to ensure "a peaceful, free, fair, and transparent" poll.


The INEC had "made adequate arrangements for the release of
authentic election results," he said, adding: "Any false results
declared by any other source to misinform the public, cause
confusion and disrupt the election process will be seriously
dealt with."


Provincial legislative and governorship polls will be held on
Saturday while the presidential and national assembly elections
are due on April 21.


Obasanjo urged his people to avoid travelling at night on the
days of the election unless absolutely necessary.

