

The United States expects to reach a "meaningful agreement" with
China next month on opening more air routes between the two
countries, the US transport secretary said Friday.


"We want to reach meaningful agreement about having full and open
liberalisation of aviation," Mary Peters told a gathering of US
businesspeople in Beijing.


"That is our goal, and I do believe that we can reach a
meaningful agreement by May at the next SED (Strategic Economic
Dialogue)," she said.


The Strategic Economic Dialogue is a twice-annual high-level
meeting. The next round of talks between US Treasury Secretary
Henry Paulson and Chinese Vice Premier Wu Yi is scheduled in
Washington next month.


Although a complete "open skies" agreement is the ultimate goal,
Peters said any such deal with China would probably be phased in
over a period of time, without being specific.


The two countries reached an aviation agreement in 2004, which
covered an increase in the number of airlines serving US-China
routes, an expansion of flights frequency and the establishment
of cargo hubs in China by US airlines.


"While the 2004 aviation agreement laid the foundation for this
kind of project, much more can and should be done to strengthen
our aviation partnership even further," Peters said.


She said that currently 16 percent of US-China passenger traffic
was being lost to third country airlines due to restrictions.


"All sides must recognise that protectionism is not the answer,"
she said.


As an example of how urgent things should be improved, Peters
said there was still only an average of 11 daily nonstop
passenger flights between the two countries.


That is only one fifth of those between the United States and
Germany, she said.


Peters, making her first visit to Beijing as transport secretary,
met with Yang Yuanyuan, the minister of China's General
Administration of Civil Aviation. She arrived on Thursday and
will leave on Saturday.

