

China's financial hub Shanghai plans to shut 29 coal-fired power
plants by 2010 in a renewed bid to reduce environmentally
damaging carbon emissions, state press reported Friday.


"These small coal-fired power plants, totalling 2.11 million
kilowatts in installed capacity, are big energy guzzlers and
serious polluters," Xinhua news agency quoted Vice Mayor Feng
Guoqin as saying.


"The coal consumption by small plants is 15 percent higher than
the average, and their annual emissions of sulphur dioxide exceed
80,000 tonnes."


As the world's second-largest emitter of climate-changing gasses
after the United States, and the world's largest coal burner,
Beijing's leadership has repeatedly warned of the dangers of
China's polluted environment.


The Chinese economy has hummed along at ultra-fast rates of
growth for years, at once increasing the wealth of its 1.3
billion people but also causing nearly irreparable damage to its
land and water.


To counter the trend Beijing has set goals for renewable energy
to account for 16 percent of its overall energy production by
2020, up from about 7.5 percent now.


It also wants to increase its energy efficiency by 20 percent
over the next four years.


But as the Chinese economy booms it becomes ever more dependent
on imported oil as well as its huge coal reserves.


Smaller, less efficient plants are being closed only to be
replaced by larger ones. Energy experts estimate the nation
builds one coal-fired plant every three days.


In Shanghai the 29 small plants will also be replaced by larger
energy plants, Feng said.


The new plants, with a combined capacity of three million
kilowatts, will save Shanghai about 1.1 million tonnes of coal a
year, according to the vice mayor.

