

Former French prime minister Michel Rocard on Friday called for
an alliance between Socialist candidate Segolene Royal and
centrist Francois Bayrou, saying it would boost their chances of
beating frontrunner Nicolas Sarkozy.


Rocard, the Socialist prime minister under president Francois
Mitterrand, made the appeal in an opinion piece published in the
authoritative newspaper Le Monde, just 10 days before the first
round of voting.


"In the coming days, the French people will decide whether
Francois Bayrou or Segolene Royal is the best placed to beat
Nicolas Sarkozy," wrote Rocard, who was head of government from
1988 to 1991.


"They will be better able to decide if they know that, in any
case, an honest and constructive alliance will defend a shared
project of hope for France in the second round and in the
legislative elections," he wrote.


"I call on Francois Bayrou and Segolene Royal to address the
French people before the first round in order to set a course
towards this alliance," he added.


Rocard was the most senior Socialist official to call for an
alliance between Royal and Bayrou who hold the second and third
spot in public opinion polls.


Royal, 53, who wants to become France's first woman president, is
credited with 24 percent of votes in the latest poll published
Friday, behind Sarkozy, 52, who gets 30 percent.


Bayrou, 55, has dropped slightly with 18.5 percent of votes, the
Ipsos/Dell poll published in Le Point magazine said.


Polls have shown that Sarkozy would beat Royal in a runoff, but
he is not sure of winning if Bayrou makes it into the second
round, set for May 6.

