

Japan will take on Colombia and Montenegro in the Kirin Cup
football tournament, their final warm-up for the defence of the
Asian Cup in July, the Japan Football Association said Friday.


The Asian champions will play Montenegro in Shizuoka on June 1,
and Colombia in Saitama on July 5, while the two visitors will
face each other in Matsumoto on July 3 in the annual
160,000-dollar round robin.


"This will be our main preparation for the Asian Cup. It is an
important event just before the Asian Cup. I hope it will be a
fruitful tournament as our preparation," said the Association's
managing director, Kozo Tashima.


But coach Ivica Osim said Japan was not viewing the matches as a
rehearsal for the Asian Cup.


"Of course it is good to have the tournament before the Asian
Cup, but we are determined to play like we do in the World Cup,"
said Osim, who led the former Yugoslavia to the 1990 World Cup
quarter-finals.


Osim said he had already studied Colombia's match against
Switzerland and Monenegro's against Hungary, but refused to
comment on the two teams.


"You would never ask me how strong they are if they were
powerhouses like Brazil and Germany. By playing a good game
against them, I hope we can set up a match against stronger teams
who have never played us before," he said.


Japan lost to Colombia 1-0 in their only previous encounter at
the 2003 Confederations Cup in France, while Montenegro has
posted a historic 2-1 win against Hungary since its independence
in June last year.


Japan were drawn with Qatar, the United Arab Emirates and Vietnam
in the preliminary Group B of the Asian Cup to be held in July,
co-hosted by Malaysia, Indonesia, Vietnam and Thailand.


The winners of the Kirin Cup will receive 100,000 dollars, the
runners-up 50,000 dollars and the third placers 10,000 dollars.

