

Indian software giant Infosys on Friday posted a higher-than-
expected 70 percent jump in fiscal fourth-quarter net income but
forecast growth to slow sharply in the year ahead.


The Bangalore-based company, aided by new overseas clients and a
tax writeback, saw its profit rise to 11.4 billion rupees (266.5
million dollars), or 20.3 rupees per share, in the three months
ended March 31, from 6.73 billion rupees, or 12.23 rupees per
share, a year earlier.


Sales increased 43.8 percent to 37.7 billion rupees.


"The global IT services industry continues to show strong growth
with exciting opportunities and Infosys is well positioned to
take advantage of this," Chief Executive Officer Nandan Nilekani
said in a statement.


But the company, India's second-biggest maker of computer
software and a pioneer of the outsourcing boom, said sales growth
would slow to a range of 22.6-24.6 percent in the year ending
next March amid a looming slowdown in technnology spending by US
firms and a strengthening rupee.


"There's a possibility the company will raise the forecasts later
in the year, as happened last year," said Harmendra Gandhi, vice
president of research at Mumbai-based Brics Securities. "A lot
depends on exchange rates."


For the year ahead, the company put the value of the rupee at
43.10 to the dollar, the rate on March 31, since when the
currency has appreciated even more.


Infosys signed up 34 new clients during the latest quarter,
including those in the retail industry, aerospace and oilfield
services, venturing to tap new businesses.


It also had a reversal of 1.24 billion rupees in tax provisions,
helping it beat analyst estimates of about 52 percent profit
growth.


Excluding the tax writeback, profit growth would have been in
line with estimates.


That also countered the effect of salary increases, and a 1.8
percent rise in the value of the rupee against the dollar during
the quarter.


"The rupee appreciated against all major currencies during the
quarter," said V. Balakrishnan, chief financial officer, adding a
"robust financial model" had helped Infosys dilute the impact of
the currency's ascent.


For the 12 months ended March 31, the company's net income jumped
56.6 percent to 38.5 billion rupees, on sales growth of 45.9
percent to 138.9 billion rupees.


The results were closely watched, with analysts looking to the
forecasts for next year as an indicator of how the country's
flagship industry is facing up to the challenges of rising wages,
the rupee's appreciation, the looming US slowdown and a higher
tax burden.


Infosys shares were up 54.6 rupees or 2.67 percent to 2,098.25 on
Friday, and up 2.75 percent at 2,100 rupees after the earnings
were announced.


The benchmark 30-share BSE Sensex was up 167.9 points or 1.28
percent to 13,281.71 at 0500 GMT.


Salaries, which account for about 50 percent of the spending by
software companies, have been rising at an annual industry
average of about 15 percent as companies struggle to retain
employees in the face of a shortage of skilled personnel.


That is eroding the biggest advantage of local software makers
who have benefited from labour costs that at one time were as low
as a fifth of those in the US.


Infosys, which has been expanding overseas to be closer to its
customers, has increased offshore salaries by about 15 percent
for 2008, said T.V. Mohandas Pai, head of human resources.


In the year ended March, the company hired 30,946 employees,
raising its workforce to 72,241.


"We are making substantial investments in creating a training
engine to support our future growth," Pai said. "By December
2007, we will have the capacity to train 13,500 employees at a
time."

