

A senior Shanghai official is under investigation for collusion
in real estate projects, in the latest graft case ensnaring
China's economic hub, state press reported Friday.


Chen Shijie, 63, party chief of the city's powerful construction
committee, is suspected of using his position to help his son
profit illegally from property development, Caijing magazine said
on its website.


Also the chairman of the Shanghai Real Estate Association and a
member of the municipal parliament, Chen had "seriously violated
party discipline," the report said, citing unidentified sources.


Chen had submitted his resignation as chairman of the real estate
association after failing to attend a meeting on March 13,
according to Caijing.


The case follows last month's detention of Yin Guoyuan, the
former deputy director of the Shanghai housing, land and
resources administrative bureau.


Yin and his wife are being probed after their immense wealth
raised investigators' suspicions, according to previous state
press reports.


As bureau deputy director from 1995 to 2005, Yin was in charge of
land-use approvals for Shanghai, a period that saw an
unprecedented boom in real estate prices.


Zhu Wenjin, director of the bureau's land-use management
department, and subordinate of Yin, is also under investigation
for taking cash bribes and other kickbacks, according to Caijing.


The report did not draw any direct link with Shanghai's biggest
graft case last year, which led to the detention and firing of
more than 20 party bureaucrats and businessmen, including former
city boss Chen Liangyu.


The probe involved the theft of social security money totalling
3.7 billion yuan (480 million dollars) including interest for
investment in speculative property and highway projects.

