

The UN envoy in Afghanistan, Tom Koenigs, urged talks with all
the forces in Afghanistan, including the Taliban, to stanch the
bloodshed in the country, in an interview published Friday.


"If there is to be a chance for peace, we must talk to everyone,
including alleged war criminals. The aim is to stabilise
Afghanistan," Koenigs told the German daily Berliner Zeitung.


He said this included the Taliban, which he described as "a
movement that includes terrorists and uses terrorist methods but
that also has a political foundation."


Koenigs said the hardline Islamist movement also comprised "young
fighters who often just need money" and "people who feel
discriminated against by corrupt or partisan government
officials" as well as drug dealers and Muslim fundamentalists.


"The idea that you have to kill all of them to win the conflict
is nonsense," he said.


"Of course there have to be talks with various groups. The answer
to the conflict cannot only be based on the military or
development policy but must be comprehensively political."


He said the United Nations was trying to integrate all the
conflicting parties with a negotiated truce.


"In the end, reconciliation has to come from the Afghans
themselves," he said.


Kurt Beck, the leader of Germany's Social Democrats, half of
Chancellor Angela Merkel's ruling left-right coalition, recently
called for dialogue with "moderate Taliban" with the aim of
ending the bloody unrest in Afghanistan.


Afghan Foreign Minister Rangeen Dadfar Spanta swiftly rejected
the proposal, saying there were no moderate Taliban.


NATO-led forces are battling the strongest Taliban insurgency
since the hardline Islamist movement was toppled for harbouring
Al-Qaeda chief Osama bin Laden in December 2001.

