

Russia called Friday for the extradition of exiled multi-
millionaire Boris Berezovsky from Britain after he said he was
planning the violent overthrow of Russian President Vladimir
Putin.


"Calls for the violent overthrow of the political authorities are
sufficient grounds to undertake the relevant measures," Foreign
Minister Sergei Lavrov was quoted as saying by the Interfax news
agency.


Russian prosecutors said they had opened a criminal case against
Berezovsky over his statements, printed Friday in the British
daily The Guardian.


"I have given the order to open a criminal case insofar as he
openly called for the overthrow of the constitutional authorities
in Russia," Prosecutor General Yury Chaika told journalists in
Moscow.


Berezovsky, once a close associate of former Russian president
Boris Yeltsin, obtained political asylum in Britain in 2003 after
fleeing his homeland in 2000.


London has repeatedly rejected requests from Moscow to have him
extradited -- a stance challeneged by Lavrov who said the exiled
businessman was "crudely abusing" his status as a political
refugee and "undertaking actions which under British legislation
demand his extradition."


In his comments to The Guardian, Berezovsky said: "We need to use
force to change this regime.... It isn't possible to change this
regime through democratic means."


"There can be no change without force, pressure."


Asked by the newspaper if he was fomenting a revolution, he said:
"You are absolutely correct."

