

The current strength of the euro represents no threat to the
eurozone's economy, the head of the IMF's European Department,
Michael Deppler, said in a newspaper interview published on
Friday.


"We see no threat to recovery," Deppler told the Financial Times
Deutschland in remarks reproduced in German.


"The euro continues to be fairly valued," he said on the
sidelines of the spring meeting of the IMF and the World Bank in
Washington.


The rise in the value of the euro reflected the growing economic
strength of the 13-nation bloc, and exports would not be
adversely affected, Deppler argued.


Exports were "continuing to perform well," he said.


The euro rose to 1.3534 dollars on Friday, reaching the highest
level since January 3, 2005 after European Central Bank chief
Jean-Claude Trichet sent a clear signal on Thursday that eurozone
interest rates were set to rise in June.


Deppler urged the ECB, nevertheless, to monitor the euro's
exchange rate very closely.


"If the euro's effective exchange rate changes noticeably, that
would have to be taken into account in monetary policy," the IMF
official said.


Nevertheless, if the euro did not rise still further, the ECB's
monetary policy stance was appropriate, Deppler said.


With the eurozone's economic performance close to or above
potential and inflation at around 2.0 percent, "a further
interest rate increase to 4.0 percent by the summer would seem
warranted," he said.


And additional monetary tightening might be necessary beyond that
"if growth continues above trend and the risks from wages and
prices increase," Deppler said.


So far, wage growth had been "moderate," he added.

