

A Malaysian museum which had defied calls for it to stop a
popular exhibition on supernatural beings Friday cancelled it
after an Islamic fatwa, or religious decree, was issued, state
media said.


Thousands of visitors have been drawn to western Negri Sembilan
state's musuem since it launched the ghost and genie exhibition
on March 10, due to run until May 31.


Its curator had resisted calls from Malaysia's arts minister and
a mufti for it to be shut down amid criticism that encouraging a
belief in ghosts was un- Islamic.


But Negeri Sembilan's state secretary Kamaruddin Siaraf, also
chair of the state museum board, said Friday the exhibition was
terminated after Malaysia's National Fatwa Council ruled against
such events.


He said the decision was made out of respect for the council's
views, the state Bernama news agency reported.


The National Fatwa Council Thursday reportedly ruled that
exhibitions on ghosts, ghouls and supernatural beings were
forbidden, as they could undermine the faith of Muslims.


"Supernatural beings are beyond the comprehension of the human
mind. We don't want to expose Muslims to supernatural and
superstitious beliefs," council chair Abdul Shukor Husin was
quoted as saying in the Malay-language daily Berita Harian
Friday.


Abdul Shukor said the council's decision would be presented to
all of Malaysia's state governments for gazetting as religious
law.


"Only state governments have the power to take action, especially
concerning the ghostly exhibitions," he said.


Malaysians have a lingering fascination with all things
supernatural, despite the criticism.


A belief in spirits and black magic used to be common in rural
Malaysia, bred on myths and superstitions. It was used to gain
power and wealth, and to harm enemies.


The practice reached its height during the sultanate days of the
16th century, but faded away as the influence of Islam grew in
this multicultural nation.

