

Hong Kong share prices closed 0.19 percent weaker Friday as
investors locked in profits in property stocks amid an uncertain
outlook for interest rates, dealers said.


They said trading was also cautious ahead of key inflation data
in the US and a meeting of G7 finance ministers and central
bankers this weekend.


The Hang Seng Index closed down 39.24 points at 20,340.97, off a
low of 20,264.99 and a high of 20,432.01. For the week, the index
was up 131.26 points or 0.65 percent. Turnover was 57.19 billion
Hong Kong dollars (7.3 billion US).


"Everybody is guessing on the US interest rate outlook, and this
has prompted scores of investors to take profit on rate-sensitive
properties after recent gains in the sector," said Howard Gorges,
vice chairman at South China Securities.


"(US) Federal Reserve officials have said that they would be
guided by data and the inflation outlook in their next move on
interest rates. Their stance has inevitably created uncertainties
on interest rates," he said.


The property sector index closed down 235.02 points or 0.96
percent at 24,353.21, with Cheung Kong down 1.60 at 100.30 and
Sun Hung Kai Properties falling 0.70 to 92.45.


China insurers extended their gains following strong results from
Ping An, dealers noted.


Ping An was up 1.99 at 43.60 and peer China Life was up 0.55 at
25.30.


Other mainland financials however turned lower on profit-taking,
with ICBC down 0.03 at 4.29 and Bank of China fell 0.04 at 3.94.


China Construction Bank was down 0.06 at 4.64 ahead of its 2006
results announcement.


Bank of Communications gained 0.06 at 8.51 on news that the China
Securities Regulatory Commission will review on Monday the bank's
proposal to issue 3.19 billion A-shares on the mainland.


Large caps were mixed, with HSBC gaining 0.90 at 140.70 and China
Mobile down 0.10 at 71.15 and Hutchison Whampoa down 0.45at
75.90.


Among other local banks, Hang Seng Bank lost 0.50 at 111.90 and
Bank of East Asia was down 0.80 at 47.60.

