

Japanese share prices skidded lower Friday as investors waited
nervously to see whether world finance ministers would discuss
the weakness of the yen at a weekend meeting, dealers said.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
fell 176.47 points or 1.01 percent to close at 17,363.95.


The broader Nikkei-225 index of all first-section shares dropped
20.68 points or 1.20 percent to 1,705.50 points.


Decliners outnumbered gainers 1,439 to 204, with 84 issues flat.


Volume rose to 2.03 billion shares from 1.81 billion on Thursday.


Dealers said that the market had failed to draw support from
gains seen overnight on Wall Street, with the upcoming Group of
Seven meeting and the US and domestic corporate earnings seasons
keeping a lid on sentiment.


"Investors remain sceptical about whether US stocks will continue
rising after the latest minutes from the Federal Reserve's
meeting showed wariness over inflation," said Hideo Mizutani,
chief strategist at Sieg Securities.


He said investors "found no need to rush into buying shares as
there were no especially positive incentives to chase prices
higher."


Market players remained cautious ahead of the G7 meeting amid
speculation that the weakness of the yen could be raised by
European finance chiefs who are worried that the yen-euro
exchange rate is penalising eurozone exporters.


"Although it is said that there is little chance that the yen
will be in focus at the G7 meeting, the yen actually firmed" on
Friday, said Hiroichi Nishi, equity chief at Nikko Cordial
Securities.


"So investors leaned toward to adopting a wait-and-see position,"
he added.


Investors are waiting for the first-quarter corporate earnings
reporting season in the United States to begin next week and for
full-year results in Japan the week after before they build up
their positions, he said.


"As major US high-tech companies will release their earnings
reports next week, how shares in the US high-tech sector react to
those earnings will give a lead to Japanese high-tech shares,"
Nishi said.


Among auto makers, Toyota dropped 220 yen or 2.99 percent to
7,150, Mitsubishi Motors declined five yen or 2.7 percent to 183
and Isuzu Motors was down 14 yen or 2.2 percent at 635.


But All Nippon Airways added four yen or 0.8 percent at 475 after
Morgan Stanley said it would buy 13 hotels from the airline for
281.3 billion yen (2.4 billion dollars).


Sony Corp rose 170 yen or 2.7 percent to 6,510 after a newspaper
projected a sharp improvement in its earnings in the fiscal year
ending March 2008.


Toshiba Corp gained 10 yen or 1.1 percent to 881 after announcing
plans to nearly double its operating profit over the next four
years.


On the foreign exchange market, the dollar slipped to 118.80 yen
in Tokyo afternoon trade from 119.14 late Thursday in New York.


The euro set a fresh two-year high of 1.3523 dollars before
easing back to 1.3503. The euro dipped to 160.40 yen from 160.64
late Thursday.

