

Japan on Friday doubted North Korea will meet a weekend deadline
to shut down its nuclear reactor but said the communist state
should still take action as soon as possible.


A day ahead of Saturday's deadline, North Korea said it will
start scrapping its nuclear programme once it can confirm that
funds in a Macau bank have been unfrozen as the United States has
said.


"It is clear to everyone's eyes that it will be difficult for
North Korea to meet the deadline," Japan's chief government
spokesman Yasuhisa Shiozaki told a news conference.


"It is important for North Korea to come back to the six-nation
talks soon and swiftly take the initial actions as early as
possible," Shiozaki said.


Japan has tense relations with North Korea and has taken the
hardest line in the six-nation disarmament talks, largely due to
a domestically sensitive dispute over Pyongyang's past
kidnappings of Japanese civilians.


Japan has refused to fund the February 13 deal under which North
Korea would close its Yongbyon facility in return for badly
needed fuel aid. Saturday is the agreement's first deadline.


On a visit to Tokyo, a senior US official reiterated that Macau
authorities had unblocked the 25 million dollars in the Banco
Delta Asia (BDA) and said the ball was now in North Korea's
court.


"There is no secret. We all know there was an action that was
taken by Macau," Victor Cha, US President George W. Bush's
adviser on North Korean affairs, said before the North Korean
announcement.


"So this BDA issue is finished and now we need to implement the
rest of the 60-day action," Cha told reporters after meetings
with Japanese officials.

