

Police detained about 200 Shanghai residents who gathered at a
newspaper's headquarters to protest over a report touting the
success of China's petition system, a rights report said Friday.


Residents were angry with the Shanghai leadership's mouthpiece,
the Liberation Daily, for stating that the city's Letters and
Petitions offices had resolved 1.1 million petitions presented
last year, Human Rights in China said.


Protesters said the newspaper's article presented a distorted
picture of how the ruling Communist Party was really managing the
"petition" system, which has been the official channel to air
citizens' grievances for centuries.


More than 100 police officers swooped on the residents, detaining
them at a secondary school in Shanghai's Huangpu District for
several hours, a resident confirmed to AFP.


Shen Yonglei, seeking official redress over the valuation put on
her property by municipal authorities, said that she and nearly
200 residents had been arrested Wednesday morning at Liberation
Daily.


"We were all released at 4:30 pm," said Shen. "We went to the
newspaper's building to complain about the article because it
said that everything has been resolved but most of us have not
had our petitions handled."


Under China's petition system, which dates back to imperial
times, ordinary citizens have the right to lodge written
complaints with the government about perceived injustices carried
out by local authorities.


Chinese widely complain petitions are rarely addressed, while
authorities sensitive to signs of social unrest are quick to
mobilise large numbers of police to break up even peaceful
protests.

