

Bosnian authorities have initiated deportation procedures for
some of nearly 400 people whose citizenship has been revoked as
part of an ongoing review of all citizenships granted since the
country's 1992-95 war, an official said.


"We initiated deportation procedures for a number of persons from
the list of the review commission, but I cannot speak about the
exact number because operative controls are still ongoing," the
head of Bosnian government office for foreigners Dragan Mektic
told AFP.


"We will deport persons who jeopardize the country's security as
established by operative controls," he added.


Bosnian authorities have decided to revoke the citizenship of
nearly 400 people, including a number of former Muslim fighters,
who obtained citizenship during and after the war.


The citizenships of 367 people - most of them of Turkish and Arab
origin - had been revoked by the review commission due to
irregularities in the process.


In some cases the authorities had granted citizenship to a person
who did not submit the required documents, while in others the
applicants had provided false documents.


The Bosnian government set up the review commission last year.


Bosnia came under the spotlight after the September 11, 2001
attacks in the United States due to the presence of former
Islamic fighters on its territory.


Hundreds of fighters from Islamic countries arrived in Bosnia in
the 1990s to boost the ranks of Muslim forces in their battles
against Croats and Serbs.


Under Bosnia's 1995 peace agreement, they were all supposed to
leave the country, but some of them stayed and obtained Bosnian
citizenship either on the basis of their army service or by
marrying local women.

