

The European single currency raced past 1.36 dollars for the
first time since December 2004 on Wednesday and sterling hit its
highest level against the US currency for almost 26 years.


The weakened dollar "reflects a combination both of concerns
about the US economy... and at the same time the contrasting
strength of the European economy which is growing much more
rapidly," Capital Economics analyst Jonathan Loynes said in
London.


"Those concerns have been reflected in expectations for interest
rates," he added.


Owing to strengthening European economies, particularly in
Germany, the market is forecasting higher interest rates for the
eurozone and Britain in the coming months.


The euro reached as high as 1.3616 dollars in early European
trading on Wednesday and sterling, or the pound, struck 2.0133
dollars to reach the highest point since June 1981.


At about 1200 GMT in European trading, the euro stood at 1.3579
dollars, compared with 1.3564 in New York late on Tuesday --
paring earlier gains on profit-taking.


Sterling was at 2.0048 dollars, compared with 2.0063 dollars on
Tuesday.


"Pound strength continues to build following yesterday's
(Tuesday's) historic move above 2.00 dollars on the back of the
stronger than expected" British inflation data, ABN Amro analyst
Peter Frank said.


The inflation data increased expectations that British interest
rates will soon be increased to contain activity and price rises.


Meanwhile the eurozone, of which Britain is not a member, and
particularly the German economy, is showing unexpectedly strong
growth, despite the strength of the euro which can increase the
price of exports on foreign markets.


The European Commission last week forecast that the eurozone
would keep up a quick pace of growth while broadly sticking to
previous estimates.


The EU's executive arm forecast growth of 0.4-0.8 percent for the
first three months of this year, 0.4-0.9 percent for the second
quarter and 0.3-0.9 percent for the third quarter.


At the same time the IMF said the United States is experiencing a
"growth pause."


The International Monetary Fund said in its semi-annual World
Economic Outlook report that the US economy will expand at a
tepid 2.2 percent pace in 2007 as downturns in housing and
manufacturing remain drags on growth.


The dollar has been hit also by softer-than-expected US core
inflation data for March, published on Tuesday, which prompted
renewed speculation that the US Federal Reserve may lower
interest rates later this year, dealers said.


In the United States and Britain, the key rates stand at 5.25
percent. The main interest rate is at 3.75 percent in the
eurozone and 0.50 percent in Japan.


An increase in interest rates tends to attract foreign short-term
deposits, thereby increasing demand for the domestic currencies
and increasing their values on the foreign exchange market.


"With the currencies like the British pound, euro and Japanese
yen looking to benefit from rate hikes in the near future, the
greenback is starting to lose its appeal in the global market,"
said John Kicklighter at Forex Capital Markets.


Analysts expect the Bank of England to increase British interest
rates by a quarter-point to 5.50 percent in May and further still
before the end of 2007 after official data published Tuesday
showed British annual inflation had surged to a decade-high above
3.0 percent in March.


British 12-month inflation had hit 3.1 percent last month, the
highest level since 1997 and in breach of a government-set
ceiling of 3.0 percent.


Bank of England governor Mervyn King said that inflation had
moved above target owing partly to increased crude oil prices.


Sterling's all-time high against the dollar is 2.4546 dollars,
reached in 1980.


The euro was changing hands at 1.3579 dollars, against 1.3564
dollars late on Tuesday, 160.78 yen (161.29), 0.6775 pounds
(0.6760) and 1.6367 Swiss francs (1.6402).


The dollar stood at 118.42 yen (118.90) and 1.2051 Swiss francs
(1.2086).


The pound was being traded at 2.0048 dollars (2.0063).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold rose to 690.50
dollars per ounce, from 688.00 dollars late on Tuesday.

