

The principal of a German school where a former pupil shot 16
people dead and then himself five years ago said the US campus
massacre had ripped open painful wounds.


"When we see these pictures from Virginia the memories come
flooding back," Christiane Alt, principal of Gutenberg High
School in the eastern city of Erfurt, told Wednesday's issue of
the mass-selling daily Bild.


"We understand what the people there are going through. It pains
us to see that hardly anything is learned from such horrible
events."


She said several pupils on Tuesday had visited the Erfurt
school's "room of silence," created as a refuge for students and
faculty overwhelmed by their memories from the shooting on April
26, 2002, to pray for the dead in Virginia.


One of the them, 18-year-old Christian Beutler, said he still
felt traumatised by the shooting five years on.


"I was so afraid then. Now it is all coming back," he said.


"Fortunately I am so stressed out about my final exams that I
hardly have time to think about it."


Nineteen-year-old Robert Steinhaeuser, a fan of violent computer
games, killed 13 staff, two students and a police officer in
Erfurt two months after being expelled from the Gutenberg school.


His rampage through his former school and ultimate suicide in a
classroom took place as Erfurt students were taking exams and
while his parents, who were unaware of his expulsion, believed he
was also taking part.


On Monday, 23-year-old South Korean student Cho Seung-Hui
committed the deadliest school shooting spree in US history,
gunning down 32 students and staff at Virginia Tech university
before killing himself.

