

China will be the location for the next season of the popular
American reality show "Survivor", the US entertainment journal
Daily Variety reported Wednesday.


The CBS television network has won rare permission from the
Chinese government to film the show there, which could help boost
the programme's appeal in Asia, the paper said in a report on its
website.


"Production of US entertainment projects in mainland China has
been rare, due to logistical and government restrictions. But
with a growing economy, China has begun a more open policy,
including its active wooing to host the 2008 Beijing Olympics,"
the report said.


It did not say where in China the show, in which contestants
match their survival wits in remote settings, would be filmed or
when filming would begin.


The report could not be immediately verified with CBS or Chinese
authorities.


China's main media authority has recently railed against what it
calls "vulgar" reality shows, and has issued tight restrictions
for this season's homegrown crop of "American Idol"-style singing
contests.


However, Daily Variety said the recent filming in China of big-
screen features such as the 2006 film "The Painted Veil" had
indicated a more relaxed attitude toward Western film crews.


Reality shows have proven hugely popular in China, with state
media reporting recently that as many as 500 reality programmes
have been produced and aired by the country's numerous regional
and local state-controlled broadcasters over the past three
years.


Last year's finale of Supergirls, China's top televised singing
contest, attracted a viewing audience estimated at more than 400
million people.

