

Economies in East Asia will grow 5.7 percent in 2007 with China
spearheading the region despite slowing growth in the United
States, a major market for Asian exports, a regional think-tank
said Wednesday.


Overall growth in the Asia Pacific region is tipped at 4.3
percent this year and 4.5 percent in 2008, still down from 5.0
percent last year, the Pacific Economic Cooperation Council
(PECC) said in a report based on its forecasts for 19 economies.


"China continues to drive Asian growth, with expansion in real
GDP expected to top 10 percent through 2010," said PECC.


"China's economy will be powered again by fixed asset investment,
but the contribution of personal consumption to overall GDP
growth is expected to be increasingly important as disposable
incomes of Chinese households continue to rise," it said.


While East Asian economies will lead the region, their 5.7
percent growth will be down from the 6.3 percent last year, PECC
said.


The report said China's current account surplus will rise to 315
billion US dollars this year and top 364 billion in 2008.


"At around 10 percent of GDP, the surplus will be a lightning rod
for protectionist sentiment in the United States, which appears
to be gaining political momentum," the report said.


Last year, the United States recorded a record trade deficit with
China of 232 billion dollars, more than a quarter of its total
imbalance.


The report said Japan's economy, the world's second biggest, will
expand 1.9 percent this year before rebounding to 2.5 percent
next year.


"The slowdown in 2007 will be due mostly to weaker production,
reduced private demand, and an increasing fiscal burden," it
said.


PECC is a partnership of business, government, and academics
serving as a regional forum for cooperation and policy
coordination.

