

European stock markets dropped on Wednesday as the euro and
sterling raced to multi-year highs against the dollar, sparking
concerns for companies with exposure in the United States,
dealers said.


The euro leapt past 1.36 dollars for the first time since
December 2004 and sterling, or the pound, hit its highest level
against the US currency for almost 26 years.


A weak dollar is widely perceived as hurting European exporters
because their goods become more expensive for importers paying
with the US unit, analysts said.


Metal and mining companies also took a big hit on Wednesday
because a large part of their earnings are in US dollars.


In early afternoon trading, London's FTSE 100 index of leading
shares dropped 0.40 percent to 6,472.00 points, Frankfurt's DAX
30 shed 0.56 percent to 7,308.02 points and in Paris the CAC 40
sank 0.23 percent to 5,844.75.


The DJ Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone blue chip shares shed 0.43
percent to 4,365.48 points.


The euro reached as high as 1.3616 dollars on Wednesday, and
sterling struck 2.0133 dollars to reach the highest point since
June 1981.


Wall Street had finished mostly higher on Tuesday as the main
blue-chip index flirted with an all-time record high and shares
were buoyed by upbeat earnings news and hints that inflation may
be easing.


Japanese share prices closed higher Wednesday as bargain hunters
emerged.


In London, mining company Vedanta Resources saw its share price
slide 1.60 percent to 1,414 pence.


In Paris, shares in global steel titan Arcelor Mittal dived 1.94
percent to 38.93 euros, and in Frankfurt, German peer
Thyssenkrupp sank 1.53 percent to 38.61 euros.


On Wall Street on Tuesday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average
climbed 0.41 percent to 12,773.20 points at the closing bell.


The Nasdaq composite index, meanwhile, fell 0.05 percent to
2,516.95 points.


The broad-market Standard and Poor's 500 index edged up 0.20
percent to 1,471.48, reaching its highest level since September
2000.


A report showed US consumer prices rose 0.6 percent in March but
the "core" inflation rate that excludes volatile food and energy
costs showed a modest 0.1 percent rise.


Some analysts say the core is more important because it gives a
better indication of future inflation trends. The latest data
would keep the core rate within the "comfort zone" of the US
Federal Reserve, dealers said.


Back in Asian trading on Wednesday, the Tokyo Stock Exchange's
Nikkei-225 index of leading shares advanced 0.80 percent to close
at 17,667.33 points.


The Tokyo gains came despite a slightly stronger yen against the
dollar as well as nervousness ahead of the domestic earnings
results season which gets into full swing next week.


Hong Kong's key Hang Seng Index closed flat at 20,777.09 points
on profit- taking, as the market went into consolidation mode
after gaining nearly 450 points in the last two sessions.


Dealers there said that select China financials and blue chips
saw continued buying interest but it was offset by profit-taking
in the property sector.

