

The European single currency raced past 1.36 dollars for the
first time since December 2004 on Wednesday and sterling hit its
highest level against the US currency for almost 26 years.


"The difference between the economic performances of Europe and
the US is driving currency trading," said Commerz Bank treasurer
Ryohei Muramatsu.


"Investors are taking advantage of widening interest rate
differentials. While data on the US economy is patchy the
strength of the European economies stands out," he added.


The euro reached as high as 1.3616 dollars in early European
trading and sterling, or the pound, struck 2.0133 dollars to
reach the highest point since June 1981.


At about 1000 GMT in European trading, the euro stood at 1.3612
dollars, compared with 1.3564 in New York late on Tuesday.


Sterling was at 2.0126 dollars, compared with 2.0063 dollars on
Tuesday.


"Pound strength continues to build following yesterday's
(Tuesday's) historic move above 2.00 dollars on the back of the
stronger than expected" British inflation data, ABN Amro analyst
Peter Frank said.


The inflation data increased expectations that British interest
rates will soon be increased to contain activity and price rises.


Meanwhile the eurozone, of which Britain is not a member, and
particularly the German economy, is showing unexpectedly strong
growth, despite the strength of the euro which can increase the
price of exports on foreign markets.


The dollar has been hit also by softer-than-expected US core
inflation data for March, published on Tuesday, which prompted
renewed speculation that the US Federal Reserve may lower
interest rates later this year, dealers said.


In the United States and Britain, the key rates stand at 5.25
percent. The main interest rate is at 3.75 percent in the
eurozone and 0.50 percent in Japan.


An increase in interest rates tends to attract foreign short-term
deposits, thereby increasing demand for the domestic currencies
and increasing their values on the foreign exchange market.


"With the currencies like the British pound, euro and Japanese
yen looking to benefit from rate hikes in the near future, the
greenback is starting to lose its appeal in the global market,"
said John Kicklighter at Forex Capital Markets.


Analysts expect the Bank of England to increase British interest
rates by a quarter-point to 5.50 percent in May and further still
before the end of 2007 after official data published Tuesday
showed British annual inflation had surged to a decade-high above
3.0 percent in March.


British 12-month inflation had hit 3.1 percent last month, the
highest level since 1997 and in breach of a government-set
ceiling of 3.0 percent.


Bank of England governor Mervyn King said that inflation had
moved above target owing partly to increased crude oil prices.


Sterling's all-time high against the dollar is 2.4546 dollars,
reached in 1980.


The euro was changing hands at 1.3612 dollars, against 1.3564
dollars late on Tuesday, 161.47 yen (161.29), 0.6764 pounds
(0.6760) and 1.6380 Swiss francs (1.6402).


The dollar stood at 118.63 yen (118.90) and 1.2035 Swiss francs
(1.2086).


The pound was being traded at 2.0126 dollars (2.0063).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold rose to 690.50
dollars per ounce, from 688.00 dollars late on Tuesday.

