

Thailand's army-installed premier on Wednesday pledged to
increase cooperation with the country's military leaders, with
the junta chief to start sitting in on cabinet meetings.


Surayud Chulanont, installed after a coup last September, also
said he would be expanding his cabinet to prepare for elections
later this year, a reshuffle which comes as his popularity slides
after a series of policy miscues.


There have been rumours that a rift has opened between Surayud
and General Sonthi Boonyaratglin, coup leader and head of the
Council for National Security (CNS), as the ruling junta call
themselves.


"There will be a cabinet reshuffle, adding more ministers,"
Surayud told reporters after a cabinet meeting on Wednesday.


"We also discussed in the meeting how to work closely with the
Council for National Security and the National Legislative
Assembly to issue more laws which will achieve this government's
goals," he said.


Poldej Pinprateep, deputy social development minister, said that
from next Tuesday, senior junta members would join weekly cabinet
meetings.


"Next week General Sonthi will be first head of the CNS to
attend," he said.


Poldej said Surayud would be adding four more deputy ministers in
his cabinet reshuffle, pending approval from the king.


Surayud earlier denied reports in local media that he would be
appointing a new deputy prime minister to oversee security issues
such as small but growing anti- junta protests.


Sonthi and Surayud recently clashed over how to deal with the
protests led by supporters of ouster premier Thaksin Shinawatra.
The army chief wanted to declare a state of emergency in Bangkok,
but Surayud decided against it, and later told reporters that
"I'm the one who calls the shots".


Surayud's popularity has steadily declined since he was appointed
last October, with people unhappy with his government's handling
of the economy and the lack of progress in investigations into
alleged corruption under Thaksin.

