

Recent retaliatory US tariffs against China could be followed by
more such steps in the future but trade ties should stay strong,
a US Commerce Department official said on Wednesday.


The United States currently has no plans for other countervailing
tariffs like those on Chinese imports of glossy paper announced
last month, Assistant Commerce Secretary David Spooner told
reporters in Beijing, but he acknowledged a growing anti-China
climate in Washington on trade issues could lead to more.


"Clearly our decision of two weeks ago may lead to additional
subsidy cases but I wouldn't characterise it as a protectionist
move or one that would escalate trade tensions," Spooner said
before departing Beijing.


Spooner, whose import administration bureau implements US laws on
unfair trade, was in China for a brief visit to explain the US
rationale over the penalty tariffs decision, imposed on March 30
in retaliation for what the US calls unfair Chinese subsidies for
its glossy paper industry.


"It's fair to say the government of China does not fully agree
with our findings," Spooner said, offering no other details on
the Chinese response.


The glossy paper tariffs broke with a US practice of not applying
such measures against "non-market" economies.


China is still classified as such but Spooner said its economy
was developed enough to be fair game for such measures.


"You would have to be divorced from reality to say there was an
absence of market forces in China," he said.


"Insofar as there is an undercurrent in the US of unease on trade
with China and claims that the playing field is not level, it
allows us to go to manufacturers and say, 'if you have a
complaint, gather evidence and file a case on merit," added
Spooner.


He noted that most such measures are triggered by petitions from
manufacturers, not by the government.

