

Sri Lanka's decision to keep top players from the cricket World
Cup clash against Australia was a ploy sanctioned by Colombo, the
island's chief selector said Thursday.


Sri Lanka, already assured of a place in the semi-finals, kept
out star bowlers Chaminda Vaas and Muttiah Muralitharan for the
Super Eights match in Grenada on Monday, which Australia won by
seven wickets.


Their absence, and that of already injured Lasith Malinga, meant
the 1996 World Cup winners went into Monday's loss to the
defending champions without a trio of bowlers who have taken 41
wickets at the tournament.


Australia cruised to a seven-wicket win with 44 balls to spare
after dismissing a full-strength Sri Lanka batting line-up for
226 at the Grenada National Stadium.


The controversial move, however, shocked the Australians and
angered Sri Lankan cricket fans who were keen to see the home
team beat Australia, the current favourites to win their third
consecutive World Cup title.


"It was a decision, a ploy, to keep our key strike bowlers away
from the Australian game. We wanted to bring the players out for
the finals with Australia," Sri Lanka Cricket chief selector,
Asantha de Mel, told AFP.


De Mel's comments contradict skipper Mahela Jayawardene's
statement that Muralitharan and Vaas, two of the stars of the
side that won the World Cup 11 years ago, were rested.


"Once we realised we had the semi-final spot, I thought we needed
to give those guys a break," Jayawardene said after Monday's
loss.


Australia fielded their full strength team for the clash, but de
Mel said the Sri Lankans were in no hurry to show off their
armoury.


"We did not want to give the Australians a free dress rehearsal.
We are saving our armoury for the finals," de Mel said, adding
the selectors were keen to field Vaas and Muralitharan in
Wednesday's clash with Ireland.

