

Beijing must cut road traffic by around one third to avert chaos
at next year's Olympic Games, a city official said Wednesday.


The capital of more than 15 million people is renowned for its
traffic bottlenecks that are worsening as more than 1,000 new
cars hit the streets every day.


The number of vehicles stood at only a million a decade ago but
is expected to reach 3.3 million before the August Olympics, said
Liu Xiaoming of the Beijing transport commission.


"If we reduce average traffic volume by 20-30 percent it will be
enough to ensure smooth traffic flow during the Olympics," he
told a press conference. "That means we need to cut traffic by
more than a million vehicles."


Traffic and air pollution are considered to be the two most
serious obstacles to the success of the Beijing Games.


Liu was speaking as a team of International Olympic Committee
(IOC) officials was visiting Beijing to discuss preparations for
the event with the Chinese organisers.


Next week, Beijing will also welcome Jacques Rogge, the IOC
president, who will chair a meeting of the body's executive board
in the Chinese capital.


Liu said Beijing was learning how to handle traffic congestion
from past international events it has organised and from studying
the performance of other Olympic host cities.


In what was seen as a rehearsal for Olympic traffic control,
Beijing ordered 500,000 government vehicles off the streets for
six days last November and encouraged citizens to use public
transport during a summit of African leaders.


"Combined with an improved public transport system we had a
fairly good traffic situation during the summit," said Liu.


"This also alleviated the worries and doubts of some of our
foreign friends who were not so sure whether the Beijing
municipal government would do a good job in terms of traffic
control during the Olympics."

