

British Defence Secretary Des Browne hailed Wednesday the
transfer of a fourth Iraqi province to Iraqi commanders as a
milestone, but warned the next few months would be a crucial
test.


"I congratulate the Iraqis on what they have achieved in a
relatively short period," he said after the transfer of control
of Maysan province, the third transfer of a province by British
forces.


"The progress made in transferring responsibility of these
provinces demonstrates the sheer hard work and dedication of the
Iraqis, the UK forces and our coalition partners in southern
Iraq."


But he added: "We need to recognise ... that security challenges
remain in all three provinces. Iraqi authorities now have the
ability to deal with the vast majority of circumstances they are
likely to face.


"The next few months are likely to provide a crucial test of
their new capabilities and UK and coalition forces will need to
continue with our training and mentoring work to support them,"
he said.


Maysan is the fourth of Iraq's 18 provinces to be handed over to
Iraqi forces.


Last August, British troops handed over security in Amara, the
capital of Maysan, but retained control over other parts of the
province.


British forces handed over Muthanna province in July and Dhi Qar
province was transferred to Iraqi control in September.


In December 2006, US forces handed over security control in Najaf
to Iraqi forces.


Prime Minister Tony Blair told parliament in February that the
number of British troops would likely drop to 5,000 by the end of
the year, compared to about 7,200 currently deployed in the
country.

