

Laos called Wednesday on Thailand to repatriate the parents of a
group of Hmong girls who reappeared last week after going missing
in 2005.


A foreign ministry spokesman said the mothers and fathers of the
21 teenagers should leave the Thai refugee camp where they are
living and return to Laos to be with their children.


Vientiane said last week it had found the girls, who were among
27 Hmong who went missing in December 2005 after Thailand
deported them, and handed them over to relatives in Laos.


Lao authorities did not give any information on the circumstances
in which the 21 girls were found, or what might have happened in
the intervening 15 months.


The international community has expressed concern in the past
about the fate of the 27 Hmong, a hill tribe people rights groups
say faces persecution in Laos.


Foreign diplomatic sources have said they were arrested by Thai
police after leaving a refugee camp and illegally expelled before
disappearing.


Lao authorities say they are still searching for the remaining
six, five boys and a woman.


The UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) said it was
relieved the children had been found, but expressed concern about
any forced repatriations.


"The ideal situation would be what the parents and the children
want, and I think it is very unclear whether what is being
reported about the children's wishes is really what they want,"
said UNHCR spokeswoman Kitty McKinsey.


"I think UNHCR would like to know that any movement across the
border for these people would be entirely voluntary."


Around 6,500 Hmong people live in a refugee camp in Thailand.


Some have fled persecution in Laos while others, particularly in
more recent times, have sought to escape rural poverty.


Lao exile groups and human rights activists say unknown numbers
of Hmong remain in mountainous jungle areas of Laos, hiding from
attacks by the Lao military -- a claim the Vientiane regime
denies.

