

Sri Lanka captain Mahela Jayawardene won the toss and elected to
field against Ireland in both teams' final World Cup Super Eights
match at the Grenada National Stadium here Wednesday.


Sri Lanka were already through to the semi-finals while Ireland,
seventh in the table, were now unable to get a place in the last
four.


Bowlers Chaminda Vaas and Muttiah Muralitharan, controversially
rested for Sri Lanka's seven-wicket defeat by world champions
Australia here Monday, returned.


Pace bowler Nuwan Kulasekara retained his place with fellow quick
Dilhara Fernando dropping out. Leg-spinner Malinga Bandara, a
World Cup debutant against Australia, made way for Muralitharan.


Fast bowler Lasith Malinga missed his third straight game after
injuring left ankle ligaments in training.


Ireland, who stunned the cricket world in the first round by
defeating Pakistan, made one change from the side that beat
fellow surprise package Bangladesh by 74 runs in Barbados on
Sunday.


Postman Kenny Carroll, a top order batsman and slow left-arm
bowler, replaced Andrew White.


Victory for Sri Lanka would see them avoid both finishing fourth
and a likely meeting with Australia in the semi-finals.


Teams


Ireland: William Porterfield, Jeremy Bray, Andre Botha, Eoin
Morgan, Niall O'Brien (wk), Kevin O'Brien, Trent Johnston (capt),
Kenny Carroll, Kyle McCallan, Dave Langford-Smith, Boyd Rankin


Sri Lanka: Upul Tharanga, Sanath Jayasuriya, Kumar Sangakkara
(wk), Mahela Jayawardene (capt), Chamara Silva, Tillakaratne
Dilshan, Russel Arnold, Farveez Maharoof, Chaminda Vaas, Nuwan
Kulasekara, Muttiah Muralitharan


Umpires: Billy Doctrove (WIS), Mark Benson (ENG)


TV umpire: Daryl Harper (AUS)


Match referee: Chris Broad (ENG)


Reserve umpire: Aleem Dar (PAK)


Pitch conditions: Should become easier for batting throughout the
game with a chance of some seam movement early on.


Weather: Temperatures rising to 87 degrees Fahrenheit (31 degrees
Centigrade), slight chance of rain.

