

The number of overweight and obese children in Sweden has risen
alarmingly over the past 20 years, according to a Swedish study
published in a Scandinavian medical journal.


The Uppsala University study, published in the April edition of
Acta Paediactrica, showed that four-year-old girls were six times
more likely to be obese today than two decades ago. Girls were
also found to be more prone to obesity than boys.


While previous studies have linked obesity to socioeconomic
factors, research leader Ulf Holmbaeck said in a press release
that the new study showed that obesity was on the rise even among
children of well-educated parents.


"Though parents of the children in this case were well-educated
... the children, especially girls, had become significantly
fatter during the 20-year period," he said.


The research compared the weight of 540 children aged four, 10
and 16 in 2002 to the same number of children in 1982. Changes
were most significant in the younger children, while weight
changes among 16-year-olds were less apparent.


In 2002, 20 percent of four-year-old girls had a body mass index
(BMI) above 25, signifying that they were overweight, compared to
10 percent in 1982.


Six percent of girls and two percent of boys had a BMI above 30,
signifying obesity, compared to one percent for both sexes in
1982.


Among 16-year-olds, the number of overweight girls was unchanged
at 11 percent, while the number for boys dropped from 15 to nine
percent.


A Statistics Sweden report published in March showed that the
number of obese people in the country has doubled in the past 25
years, with one in 10 Swedes now considered largely overweight.


The Uppsala researchers called for increased preventive efforts,
both on the individual and the societal level, to be undertaken
to reduce future health risks in obese children.

