

East Timor Prime Minister Jose Ramos-Horta and a former guerrilla
fighter will contest a runoff vote in the nation's presidential
election, final results from the poll confirmed Wednesday.


The ruling Fretilin party's Francisco "Lu-Olo" Guterres led the
vote while Nobel Peace laureate Ramos-Horta came second in the
closely-fought April 9 race, the National Election Commission
(CNE) said.


Because no candidate won 50 percent of the vote in the country's
first presidential poll since its independence in 2002, the two
leading candidates will compete in a second round on May 8.


Voter turnout was high and Timorese are hoping the election
stalemate will not plunge the impoverished nation into more
turmoil and bloodshed.


Foreign peacekeepers have been on the streets for nearly a year
after gang violence left 37 people dead and sent 150,000 more
fleeing their homes.


Confusion and irregularities with the count had threatened to
undermine its credibility, and prompted some candidates to demand
a recount.


The final figures show Guterres won 27.89 percent or 112,666
votes while Ramos- Horta took 21.81 percent or 88,102 votes.


Opposition Democrat Party chairman Fernando "Lasama" de Araujo
was third with 19.18 percent and 77,459 votes.


The results are final pending a 24-hour window for candidates to
appeal, CNE chairman Faustino Cardoso told reporters.


"We give 24 hours to the public to claim their case to the appeal
court. If there are no objections after that period, CNE will
verify the results to the appeal court," said Cardoso, adding
that turnout was 81.79 percent.


In total there were 403,941 valid votes or 94.56 percent of the
votes cast. Abstention votes were 7,723 or 1.81 percent and the
number of invalid votes was 15,534 or 3.64 percent.


Eight candidates stood to replace Xanana Gusmao, a charismatic
former guerrilla leader who now wants to become the country's
prime minister, a more powerful position than the largely
ceremonial role on president.

