

Japanese electronics giant Hitachi Ltd. said Wednesday that it
had appealed a huge fine issued by the European Commission over
alleged price-fixing, while Toshiba said it would follow suit.


Hitachi said in a statement that it had lodged an appeal Tuesday
with the European Court of First Instance, asking it to annul the
Commission's ruling.


In January the Commission ordered Hitachi to pay a fine of 50.4
million euros (68.5 million dollars) as part of a wider crackdown
on European and Japanese firms accused of colluding in the power-
generation equipment market.


EU regulators charge that between 1988 and 2004 the companies
rigged bids for procurement contracts, fixed prices, divided up
projects among each other and shared sensitive information in the
market for equipment called gas insulated switchgear (GIS).


The equipment is used to control the flow of energy in
electricity grids and is a major part of power substations.


Hitachi said it had also appealed the 1.35 million euro fine
slapped on Japan AE Power Systems Corp., a venture in which it is
a stakeholder.


Japan's Mitsubishi Electric Corp. said last month that it would
appeal the ruling, while Toshiba Corp. said Wednesday it would do
the same.


"Following its own investigation, Toshiba contends that it has
not found any infringement of EU competition law," the high-tech
giant said.


"Toshiba will bring a robust appeal to the Court."


The EU competition watchdog imposed a total fine of 750 million
euros -- its second-biggest to date -- on the firms, which also
included ABB, Alstom, Areva, Fuji, Mitsubishi Electric
Corporation, Schneider, Siemens and VA Tech.

