

East European neighbours Poland and Ukraine were chosen in a
shock vote by European football's governing body UEFA on
Wednesday to jointly host the Euro 2012 championships.


They won the fight to host the quadrennial tournament involving
the continent's top nations ahead of favourites Italy and another
fancied joint bid from Hungary/Croatia.


It will be the first time that either Poland or Ukraine have
hosted a major football championship and will be seen as major
boost to the sport in eastern Europe in the face of decades of
domination from wealthy western countries.


Next year's Euro 2008 finals will be jointly held by Austria and
Switzerland.


The decision, announced by new UEFA president Michel Platini, was
a huge shock as world champions Italy had been hot favourites,
while the Polish/Ukraine bid was seen as the rank outsider.


The Italians had been calling for a fresh start following
concerns over the match-fixing scandal that rocked their domestic
football last year and the crowd violence that halted all play
earlier this year.


They boasted the best existing infrastructure and the experience
of hosting two previous European championships in 1968 and 1980,
the 1990 World Cup finals and last year's Winter Olympics in
Turin.


The quadrennial tournament was jointly hosted by Belgium and the
Netherlands in 2000 and will be shared between Austria and
Switzerland next year, but organisational problems were raised in
the cases of Poland/Ukraine and Hungary/Croatia.


But UEFA officials pushed these concerns aside and instead
grabbed the chance to award the finals to former Eastern Bloc
countries for the first time since Yugoslavia hosted the 1976
finals.


Poland and Ukraine won in the first round of voting by the UEFA
executive committee with eight of the 12 votes, while four went
to Italy and none to Croatia and Hungary.


Much had been made about the long distances involved for teams if
UEFA awarded the finals to Poland and Ukraine, the poor state of
the roads linking the two countries and the lack of proper
stadiums.


But the joint bid had enthusiastic backing from the Polish
government and such as former leader and Nobel Peace Prize winner
Lech Walesa who called on UEFA to recognize the politial and
social changes that have swept across eastern Europe in the last
15 years by awarding he finals to his country.


The winning bid for the finals in seven years time featured eight
venues, four in Poland and four in Ukraine.


The UEFA decision brought immediate praise from Ukraine's top
football official Grigory Surkis.


"We are grateful to all of the UEFA executive council members for
their decision to accord us the right to host the European
championship," Surkis told Ukrainian television.


"I promise that we will do our best to hold the championship at
the highest possible level." he added.


In Warsaw, football fans and officials gathered in the city
centre to watch the announcement on a giant television screen,
burst into applause and chants.


"It will be our chance to show we are capable of organising large
sports events like world championships or even the Olympics,"
Przemyslaw Gosiewski, an aide to Polish Prime Minister Jaroslaw
Kaczynski, said.


"This is our passport to enter the club of elite countries," he
added.


In Rome, the reaction was much more muted with Italian sports
minister Giovanna Melandri saying the decision had been mainly a
political one.


"They wanted to open up the finals to former eastern bloc
countries who are striving to fully join the European scene," she
told Italian television.


"We just have to accept it in the name of sports and now try to
win on the field."


The announcement follows hard on the heels of the recent election
of Platini, the French midfield legend who captained his country
to the European title on home turf in 1984.


In so doing he defeated longtime incumbent Lennart Johansson of
Sweden promising to champion the smaller and less affluent
countries that are members of the UEFA.


""Today, Poland/Ukraine has been chosen by the UEFA executive
committee to host Euro 2012 and they are surely a worthy winner,"
he said.


"However, there are no losers today, rather only bids that have
not won this time round."


The 2012 finals will once again feature 16 teams despite UEFA
examining a proposal to extend it to 24 countries.


Greece are the current European champions having won the title in
Lisbon in 2004. Neither Poland nor Ukraine have won the European
title.

