

Greenpeace launched a campaign across Indian on Wednesday to push
for a ban on the common light bulb to cut greenhouse gas
emissions and fight climate change.


The group is campaigning to have incandescent bulbs banned and
replaced with compact fluorescent lamps (CFL), a move it says
will help India save 12,000 megawatts of electricity a year -- or
4.0 percent of carbon dioxide emissions.


Greenpeace aims to collect one million signatures on a "ban-the-
bulb" petition it will present to Indian policymakers, said G.
Ananthapadmanabhan, executive director of the environmental
group's India chapter.


"It needs a strong call from the public to push governments to
take required steps," Ananthapadmanabhan said in a statement
here. "With this petition we want to empower people to call on
their government to implement common sense."


Incandescent bulbs lose 90 percent of the energy that goes into
them as heat while a CFL bulb uses about 20 percent of the
electricity to produce the same amount of light.


Every watt of electricity produced involves carbon dioxide
emissions that contribute to greenhouse gases and global warming,
because the major source of electricity in India is coal-fuelled
power plants.


Australia has announced plans to ban incandescent light bulbs, a
move that will cut its greenhouse gas emissions by four million
tonnes by 2012, according to Greenpeace.


"The only way to achieve a fast phase-out of inefficient lighting
is to ban it," said Ananthapadmanabhan.


Critics of the campaign, however, say CFLs are more expensive and
contain more parts that harm the environment than regular bulbs.

