

A prominent Malaysian lawyer Wednesday said he was working to
free a Muslim woman forcibly separated by Islamic authorities
from her Hindu husband in a case that has sparked outrage.


Raimah Bibi Noordin and her five young Hindu children were taken
from their home two weeks ago by religious officials who said she
was a Muslim.


Under Malaysian laws, Muslims can only be married to other
Muslims, forcing non- Muslims to convert for marriage.


Lawyer Karpal Singh said he was filing an application Thursday
with a high court to free Raimah, 40, and her children, whom he
said are being held in an ethnic Malay Muslim village.


"The wife and children are placed in a Malay majority area and
directed not to get out. This is illegal detention," he told AFP.


"This is scandalous. You cannot lock up people. Things are
getting out of hand," said Karpal, also a lawmaker and deputy
chairman of the opposition Democratic Action Party (DAP).


The DAP has said that Raimah, an ethnic Indian, was adopted by an
Indian Muslim family but is a practising Hindu and married her
Indian husband P. Marimuthu under Hindu rites.


Raimah's case came amid rising religious tensions in Malaysia,
where non-Muslims say their rights are being trampled on, and a
number of Muslims are in legal battles for the right to convert
out of Islam.


Rights groups Wednesday condemned the actions of the Islamic
authorities, saying they breached the country's constitution,
which guarantees freedom of religious practice.


"As a Muslim I am frustrated by their action. There is nothing in
Islam that says you can do this," rights activist Latifah Koya
told AFP.


"It is creating bad-blood among the various races in multi-racial
Malaysia," she said.


S. Arutchelvan, of the rights group Voice of the Malaysian
People, called on religious authorities to stay out of domestic
issues.


"Their action to break-up a family is high-handed and
provocative," he said.

