

Thailand on Wednesday unveiled the first draft of its potentially
divisive new constitution, which the junta insists will guide the
kingdom back to democracy following last year's coup.


One of the more controversial clauses states that the Senate will
be appointed rather than elected, as it was in the 1997 charter.
The number of senators is to be cut to 160 from 200.


The draft of the 2007 constitution, which will now face public
debate and possible revision before a referendum scheduled for
early September, also reduces the number of parliamentarians to
400 from 500.


The draft states that the prime minister must be an elected
lawmaker, quashing speculation there may be a provision for an
appointed premier, as suggested by junta chief General Sonthi
Boonyaratglin.


The new charter is expected to be closely scrutinised for signs
that the generals, who tore up the previous constitution after
their bloodless putsch last September, are trying to cement their
role in political life.


"Folks will be looking quite critically at specific clauses that
might provide an opening for the military," said James Klein,
Asia Foundation country representative in Thailand.


The unveiling comes amid increasing opposition to the military
junta and the government it installed, with allies of ousted
premier Thaksin Shinawatra leading small but growing protests.


Thailand has been under an interim constitution since scrapping
the 1997 charter. The junta has said that a new charter is needed
to prevent the corruption which they say marred Thaksin's
government.

