

Polish football fans and officials burst into enthusiastic cheers
and chants after the announcement from Cardiff that Poland and
Ukraine will jointly host the Euro 2012 championships.


"White and reds, can't be beat!" shouted a group of ardent fans
that had gathered in the shadow of the communist-era Palace of
Culture in central Warsaw to watch the announcement, broadcast
live on a large television screen.


Poland and its eastern neighbour Ukraine beat Italy and joint
bidders Hungary and Croatia to win the right to host the
quadrennial tournament involving the continent's top nations.


"This is a huge chance for Poland.


"It will be our chance to show we are capable of organising large
sports events like world championships or even the Olympics,"
Przemyslaw Gosiewski, an aide to Polish Prime Minister Jaroslaw
Kaczynski, said from a gym where he had watched the ceremony from
Cardiff with a group of students.


"This is our passport to enter the club of elite countries,"
added Gosiewski, draped for the occasion in a white and red
football scarf, in Poland's national colours.


Poland's national team coach, Dutch national Leo Beenhakker,
expressed his delight and urged government and sports officials
to get down to work to prepare for the prestigious competition.


"It means a lot for Polish football and I am very happy,"
Beenhakker, who took over as trainer of the Polish national squad
after its disastrous World Cup campaign last year, said on TVP 3
public television.


"The government and federation have to start working to create
better infrastructure, better stadiums and training facilities.
That is the most important task for Polish football at the
moment," Beenhakker said.


It will be the first time that either Poland or Ukraine have
hosted a major football championship, and the two countries have
pledged to do the necessary work to bring their infrastructure up
to scratch.

