

Kuwaiti shares surged to a 12-month high at the close of weekly
trading Wednesday and made history by setting the largest trading
value on a single day, traders said.


The value of trading on Wednesday reached a massive 1.8 billion
dinars (6.3 billion dollars), which is six and a half times more
than the previous largest daily value.


Traders said 94 percent of the trading involved shares of the
market leader and telecom giant Mobile Telecommunications Co.
(MTC) as a number of major Gulf investors pumped huge liquidity
to buy its shares.


The Kuwait Stock Exchange (KSE) index ended the week at 10,588.80
points, the highest close since April 15 last year, up 2.3
percent on the previous week's close of 10,352.20 points.


The index is now up 5.2 percent on last year's close of 10,067.40
points but still down 12.1 percent from its all-time high of
12,054.70 set in February last year.


The bourse, which last year underwent a painful correction, has
been rising for the past three weeks.


MTC, which has about 27 million clients in 20 countries, is
capitalised at 21 billion dollars.


Last month, an MTC-led consortium was declared the highest bidder
for the Saudi third mobile licence and is expected to be awarded
the licence within weeks.


The value of average daily trading in the past week rose a
massive 228 percent to 445 million dinars (1.54 billion dollars)
from the previous week's  135.8 million dinars (470 million
dollars). The 2006 average was just 246 million dollars.


Market capitalisation increased to 163 billion dollars from last
week's 160 billion dollars.


The KSE lists 188 Kuwaiti and foreign companies. It is the second
largest stock market in the Arab world in terms of capitalisation
after the Saudi bourse.

