

A Japanese ultranationalist was arrested Wednesday for allegedly
attacking the headquarters of a newspaper that ran an article on
a controversial war shrine, police said.


Motohide Hiraoka, 42, allegedly threw a wine bottle containing
gasoline at the backdoor of the Nikkei business daily's building
in Tokyo in July last year, police said.


The bottle did not catch fire and there were no injuries or
damage.


Hiraoka, a former member of a right-wing outfit, acted alone
after reading the newspaper's report that wartime emperor
Hirohito was critical of the Yasukuni war shrine, a police
spokesman said.


"The report used Emperor Showa, whom I worship as God, to
manipulate public opinion over the Yasukuni shrine debate,"
police quoted him saying.


The newspaper published excerpts of a former palace official's
diary purporting to confirm speculation that Hirohito -- known
posthumously as Showa -- opposed enshrining notorious wartime
leaders at the site.


"The newspaper will never tolerate pressure on free speech
through violence," the Nikkei said in a statement after the
arrest.


Nationalists ardently call for politicians and the emperor to
visit the Yasukuni shrine, which venerates 2.5 million Japanese
war dead including 14 top war criminals.


Hirohito, in whose name soldiers went to war, never went to the
shrine after it quietly added the names of the war leaders in
1978.


Former prime minister Junichiro Koizumi worshipped each year at
the Yaskuni shrine, enraging China and South Korea which consider
the site a symbol of Japanese aggression.


Shinzo Abe, who succeeded Koizumi in September, has stayed
strategically silent on whether he will visit the shrine, leading
to reconciliation with other Asian countries.


Hiraoka reportedly was also arrested in August 1998 in the
western city of Okayama after causing a commotion at an
exhibition on Japanese troops' 1937 massacre of the Chinese city
of Nanjing.

