

Forty Nobel laureates and other prominent figures are to meet in
Jordan's ancient city of Petra next month to seek ways of
addressing the challenges faced by young people in the Middle
East.


"We are again convening some of the world's brightest and most
creative minds, Nobel Laureates, to think, talk, and contribute
to the advancement of various global issues," said King Abdullah
II in a statement on Wednesday.


"This year, they will also meet with some of the best young minds
of our region," he said of the annual gathering. "We can and will
continue to foster hope, innovation, and inspiration, in order to
build a better world."


"Petra III: Building a Better World" will be the third conference
of its kind to be held near the site of Jordan's famed Nabataean
ruins, and is a collaboration between the King Abdullah II Fund
for Development and the Elie Wiesel Foundation for Humanity.


The two-day event to be held on May 15-16 will explore a wide
range of health, economic, and environmental issues, with special
emphasis on how to overcome the so-called "information deficit"
in the Middle East.


"This year we will explore practical steps to building a better
world through partnerships involving Israelis and Palestinians
and via cooperation between stakeholders across the Middle East,"
said Elie Wiesel, a Jewish author and Holocaust survivor who won
the Nobel Peace Prize in 1986.


"At Petra, we will redouble our efforts to nurture tomorrow's
leaders through education," he said.


Participants will discuss the possibility of establishing a fund
to encourage scientific research and other ways to improve
education in a region where "more than half the inhabitants are
under 18 years old," planners said.


The conference is expected to attract luminaries as diverse as
former UN secretary general Kofi Annan, who won the Nobel Peace
Prize in 2001 and J.M. Coetzee, the South African novelist who
won for literature in 2003.

