

Germany's leading economic research institutes have sharply
upgraded their forecasts for economic growth this year and next
year to 2.4 percent, the Financial Times Deutschland reported on
Wednesday, quoting a copy of the institutes' report to be
published Thursday.


"The economic upturn in Germany continued after the turn of the
year, even if the tempo has slowed slightly," the newspaper
quoted the institutes' spring report as saying.


But growth momentum in the eurzone's biggest economy was
nevertheless strong enough to cancel out the dampening effects of
the sharp rise in value-added or sales tax (VAT) from January 1,
the think tanks said.


The six institutes -- Ifo in Munich, DIW in Berlin, HWWA in
Hamburg, IfW in Kiel, IWH in Halle and RWI in Essen -- publish
widely watched spring and autumn reports containing their growth
forecasts.


In their report last autumn, they had forecast growth of 1.4
percent for 2007.


The institutes are scheduled to publish their latest spring
report on Thursday.


A great many experts are confident that Germany's current
economic boom is set to continue for the time being.


Economy Minister Michael Glos recently said that the government's
current 2007 forecast of 1.7 percent was set to rise to at least
2.0 percent.


And Bundebank President Axel Weber has also suggested that the
central bank might upgrade its forecast as well.


Unemployment is also set to come down sharply this year and next
year, FT Deutschland quoted the institutes' report as saying. The
jobless rate is set to fall to 8.7 percent this year from 10.8
percent in 2006 and then to 8.0 percent next year.


Furthermore, the institutes expected Germany to achieve a
balanced public budget in 2008, after cutting the public deficit
to just 0.6 percent of gross domestic product (GDP) this year,
the newspaper said.

