

German energy giant E.ON, which recently failed to get its hands
on Spanish electricity supplier Endesa, plans to invest massively
in the renewable energy sector and in Russia, chief executive
Wulf Bernotat said in a magazine interview released on Wednesday.


E.ON planned to invest eight billion euros (10.9 billion dollars)
in renewable energy sources in the next five years and in ways to
cut its own energy consumption, Bernotat told the monthly Manager
Magazin in an interview to be pulished on Friday, but released in
advance.


The German giant was also looking at grouping its renewable
energy activities into a separate unit, the CEO said.


At the same time, E.ON also planned to expand in Russia where the
electricity sector was in the process of being privatised,
Bernotat continued.


Around 20 companies were set to be wholly or partially privatised
in the near future and the German group planned to make a
decision by the end of April on which companies it would be
interested in.


E.ON was not ruling out cooperating with Russia gas giant
Gazprom, which is also eyeing the Russian electricity sector.


Following its failed attempt to buy Endesa, E.ON is sitting on a
huge cash mountain. Analysts at Citigroup estimate E.ON could
have up to 30 billion euros to spend on acquisitions.


"We're disappointed (the Endesa) deal didn't work out as we'd
hoped," Bernotat said. "But we're not frustrated in any way."


After trying to get its hands on Endesa for more than a year,
E.ON ceded victory earlier month rival bidders Acciona of Spain
and Enel of Italy, settling instead for 10 billion euros worth of
key assets.


The assets include all of Endesa's European assets outside Spain,
Enel's Spanish unit Viesgo and additional Spanish generation
capacity from Endesa.

