

Nobel Peace Prize winner Desmond Tutu arrived in Taiwan Wednesday
on a trip to promote national reconciliation as the island
grapples with the human rights legacy of its former Nationalist
leader Chiang Kai-shek.


His visit comes as the ruling independence-leaning Democratic
Progressive Party (DPP) tries to downplay the legacy of Chiang
who is accused of gross human rights abuses during his long and
authoritarian rule which ended with his death in 1975.


The South African cleric will meet with President Chen Shui-bian
and Vice President Annette Lu during the trip sponsored by the
Taiwan Foundation for Democracy, a body funded by the foreign
ministry.


Tutu will also meet with families of some of the thousands of
people slaughtered by Nationalist (Kuomintang or KMT) troops
putting down an uprising in 1947 which became known as the 228
Incident, a foundation official said.


He will also meet with former political dissidents and give a
speech to a symposium on transitional justice and national
reconciliation.


Tutu, who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1984, was Cape Town
archbishop from 1986-1996 and headed South Africa's post-
apartheid Truth and Reconciliation Commission.


Taiwan became a full-blown democracy in 2000, when the DPP's Chen
Shui-bian was elected president, ending KMT's 51-year grip on
power. Chen was re-elected in 2004.


The DPP claims that a number of problems including human rights
abuses committed under the authoritarian rule of the former KMT
government remain unsolved. Among the contentious issues is the
role of Chiang in the 1947 massacre.


However, the KMT says the DPP is trying to foment hatred between
islanders and mainlanders who fled to the island with the KMT at
the end of a civil war in 1949.

