

The International Olympic Committee (IOC) and its president
Jacques Rogge will receive a UN award for their role in
incorporating environmental issues in the Olympic movement,
organisers said Wednesday.


The United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) has named the IOC
and Rogge -- along with six prominent environmentalists including
former US vice president Al Gore -- as this year's recipients of
the Champions of the Earth award.


The awards will be handed out Thursday in Singapore on the
sidelines of an international conference on the environment
organised by UNEP.


More than 600 business executives and experts will gather in
Singapore Thursday and Friday to discuss how the corporate world
can help tackle the growing threat of climate change.


Organisers said Gore and Rogge will not be attending the award
ceremonies. Rogge will be represented by an IOC official and Gore
by actress and environmental activist Daryl Hannah.


UNEP executive director Achim Steiner said the UN agency decided
to give the award to the IOC and Rogge for taking the initiative
to incorporate environmental issues in the Olympic movement.


As a result, cities bidding to host the Olympics must adhere to
strict environmental standards in terms of pollution and ensuring
that the environment is not damaged during the construction of
Games-related infrastructure.


Authorities in Beijing, which is hosting the 2008 Olympics, have
been taking steps to ease pollution in the Chinese capital during
the event.


Beijing has taken 60,000 old cars and buses off the road and
moved smoke-stack factories out of the capital in a bid to reduce
smog ahead of the Games.


It has spent 12 billion dollars since 2001 on improving the
environment, planting trees and parks and curbing polluting
industries in a bid to improve its image as one of the world's
most polluted cities.

