

Japanese share prices closed up 0.80 percent Wednesday as bargain
hunters emerged after the Dow Jones flirted with an all-time
record high overnight following upbeat earnings news, dealers
said.


They said that the gains came despite a slightly stronger yen
against the dollar as well as nervousness ahead the domestic
earnings results season which gets into full swing next week.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
advanced 139.88 points to 17,667.33.


The broader Nikkei-225 index of all first-section shares added
14.60 points or 0.85 percent to 1,730.71.


Gainers beat decliners 1,228 to 377, with 124 issues flat.


Volume fell to 1.89 billion shares from 1.95 billion on Tuesday.


"There was bargain-hunting interest after (Tuesday's) falls,
which occurred despite rises in US shares on the previous day,"
said Tatsuo Kurokawa, chief technical analyst at Japan Asia
Research Institute.


"Investors reacted more briskly to lower share prices than to a
firmer yen," added Kurokawa.


Dealers said despite encouraging data on the US housing market,
investors still expect the Nikkei 225 to continue rangebound
near-term ahead of the start of the full-year earnings reporting
season in Japan next week.


Real estate stocks led the gains, their recent falls having made
them especially appealing to investors looking for bargains,
dealers said. Mitsubishi Estate gained 120 yen or 3.33 percent to
3,720 and Mitsui Fudosan inched up 15 yen or 0.71 percent to
2,130.


Car makers were mostly higher, with Toyota Motor up 80 yen or 1.1
percent at 7,330 and Honda Motor up 50 yen or 1.23 percent at
4,100.


Technology stocks were mixed to higher. Sony rose 20 yen or 0.31
percent to 6,560.


But Fujitsu shed 12 yen or 1.48 percent at 797 after the company
cut its forecast for annual operating profit, blaming a weaker-
than-expected recovery in demand for optical systems.


Fujifilm Holdings advanced 80 yen or 1.61 percent to 5,060 after
a newspaper reported that the company would aim for an operating
profit of more than 200 billion yen (1.69 billion dollars) in the
fiscal year ending next March.


On the foreign exchange market, the dollar eased to 118.68 yen in
Tokyo afternoon trade from 118.90 in New York late Tuesday. The
euro edged up to 161.31 yen from 161.29.

