

Japan and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN)
vowed Wednesday to try and work out the broad framework of a free
trade deal next month, Japanese officials said.


Japanese and ASEAN working-level officials made the pledge at the
seventh round of their talks Tuesday and Wednesday on a so-called
comprehensive economic partnership agreement (EPA), a trade
ministry official said.


A free trade agreement would be the core of an EPA.


They hoped to reach a broad accord on merchandise trade when
Akira Amari, the Japanese minister of economy, trade and
industry, meets his Association of Southeast Asian Nations
counterparts in Brunei on May 4, the official said.


The two sides agreed to liberalise more than 90 percent of
merchandise trade in value within 10 years after an EPA took
effect, the official said.


Japan confirmed that it planned to eliminate tariffs on some 92
percent of its imports from the 10-nation ASEAN bloc in the
10-year period, while ASEAN aimed to remove tariffs on more than
90 percent of its imports from Japan, the official said.


After working out details on merchandise trade, the two sides
would seek to set rules in such areas as services and
investments, the official said.


"There has been progress in the talks and the ASEAN side has a
deeper understanding on key items (including rice)," a foreign
ministry official told Kyodo News.


The free trade deal will be Japan's first with a regional bloc.


Earlier this month, Tokyo signed a free trade pact with Thailand,
following deals with Malaysia, Singapore and the Philippines.


Japan, the world's second-largest economy, has been seeking a
growing number of bilateral free trade deals amid the deadlocked
global liberalisation talks.


ASEAN countries are important production hubs for Japanese
manufacturers including automakers and electronics manufacturers.

