

A string of bombings killed at least 37 people in Baghdad on
Wednesday, said security officials, in the latest defiance of a
massive Iraqi-US security crackdown in the war-torn capital.


The deadliest attack killed 20 people when a car bomb exploded
near an Iraqi army checkpoint in Baghdad's Shiite slum of Sadr
City, security officials said.


An additional 25 people were wounded when the vehicle exploded
near a main square inside the district, defence and security
officials said.


The crowded district has long been infamous as a bastion of
militia faithful to radical Shiite cleric Moqtada al-Sadr and has
frequently been targeted by car bombings blamed on Sunni
extremists.


Another 10 civilians were killed when a car bomb exploded on a
main road near a private hospital in the central Karrada
district, formerly upmarket but fallen on hard times since the
2003 US-led invasion.


Security officials confirmed women and children were among the
casualties.


An official at the interior ministry said 10 people died and 12
were wounded, but an official at the defence ministry put the
number of dead at 11 civilians with another 13 people wounded.


On the western outskirts of Baghdad, a suicide bomber blew up his
car targeting a police patrol, killing four policemen and
wounding six civilians, a security official in the defence
ministry said.


In another attack, a bomb hidden in a parked car killed three
civilians and wounded five in the central Al-Jhumuriyah district,
the official added.


Insurgents continue to stage daily lethal bombings in Baghdad,
more than two months after Iraqi and US forces launched a massive
security crackdown designed to quell daily bloodshed.

