

UEFA's shock decision to choose Poland and Ukraine as joint
organisers of the 2012 European championships was met with
disappointment in Hungary on Wednesday.


Italy, known for its stellar football and top-notch
infrastructure, was the hot favorite to win although observers
also believed Hungary and Croatia's joint bid stood a good chance
in the event UEFA was looking east for the host.


Poland and Ukraine had been given minimal chances of success,
mainly owing to the distance which separates the two countries,
poor roads and stadiums, and the political turmoil in Ukraine.


Hungarian Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsany told the MTI national
news agency from Cardiff he believed "economic factors" led UEFA
officials to opt for Poland and Ukraine.


"I'm very disappointed. I would not like to unjustly accuse UEFA
officials, but I think it's possible that economic factors played
a role in the selection of the hosts,"said Gyurcsany.


Gyurcsany, who was in Cardiff with his Croatian counterpart Ivo
Sanader to personally campaign for their joint bid, did not
specify what he meant by "economic factors".


It was Hungary's third and Croatia's second attempt to host the
continental championships.


Sandor Berzi, secretary-general of the Hungarian Football
Association, told the Index internet news portal in Cardiff: "My
personal opinion is that we shouldn't try again, but I'm not the
one who is to decide. Maybe I'm just saying this because I'm
sad."


But the project manager of Hungary's bid, Tamas Gyarfas, said:
"The best won, because the best one always wins. We did all we
could to win."

