

The Dutch central bank warned on Wednesday that a potential
takeover bid by a three-bank consortium for Dutch bank ABN Amro
would be risky and complicated for shareholders.


"From a prudential point of view an offer by the consortium would
be an important factor of risks and complications in the
preparation of the transaction and in its execution and
application," the bank said.


The Royal Bank of Scotland, Banco Santander of Spain and Belgian-
Dutch group Fortis said on Sunday that they wanted talks about
making a possible bid.


ABN Amro said on Tuesday it had extended its exclusive takeover
talks with British group Barclays until Friday, but said it had
invited the potential rival bidders to talks in Amsterdam next
week "to seek clarification of their intentions and interests."


The move seemed designed to put pressure on Barclays to reach an
agreement in the next few days after the three rival banks
expressed an interest in buying the Dutch lender at the weekend.


Analysts have speculated that ABN Amro is putting pressure on
Barclays to pay more than 35 euros per share for the banking
group.


Many investors believe 35 euros is close to the maximum that
Barclays can afford to pay, valuing ABN Amro at more than 68
billion euros (92 billion dollars), dealers said.


ABN Amro management has been under pressure from shareholder TCI,
a hedge fund, to discuss takeover terms with the other groups
interested in buying the lender.


Analysts believe that The Royal Bank of Scotland, Banco Santander
and Fortis could afford to pay more than Barclays with a joint
bid, possibly up to 42 euros per share.


The three banks, which would be able to cut more costs than
Barclays, would then divide up ABN assets between themselves.


In late morning trade shares in ABN Amro dipped 1.29 percent to
35.93 euros on the Amsterdam stock exchange.

