

EU regulators brought their "no-tolerance" anti-cartel campaign
to the Dutch beer market on Wednesday, fining Dutch brewers
Heineken, Grolsch and Bavaria 274 million euros (372 million
dollars).


Belgian-Brazilian brewing giant InBev was also named in the case
but was not fined because it had given "decisive information"
helping EU trustbusters break up the cartel.


The latest action in the European Commission's anti-cartel
campaign, the EU's competition watchdog accused the companies of
fixing prices in the Dutch market between at least 1996 and 1999.


Competition Commissioner Neelie Kroes said that officials from
the companies used false names and other covers to hide their
participation in secret meetings at hotels and restaurants.


"It is unacceptable that the major beer suppliers colluded to
hike up prices and carve up the market between themselves," Kroes
said.


"The highest management of these companies knew very well that
their behaviour was illegal, but they went ahead anyway and tried
to cover their tracks," she added.


Heineken was handed the biggest penalty for its role because of
its size and was ordered to pay 219 million euros. However, the
two smaller Dutch brewers did not get off easy either with
Grolsch told to pay 31.7 million euros while Bavaria was fined
22.9 million euros.


The roots of the investigation go back to the beginning of the
decade when the Commission's trustbusters launched a probe into
suspected unfair practices by some European brewers, leading in
September 2005 to formal charges being lodged against the Dutch
cartel.


The regulators' probe has already led to fines against brewers
for running cartels in Belgium, France, and Luxembourg.


Kroes has made a "no-tolerance" crackdown on cartels a top
priority during her tenure as Europe's top regulator and has
lodged ever-rising record fines against the illegal clubs.


Four months into the year, EU regulators have already made a new
annual record for fines in cartel cases with the Dutch trust bust
bringing the 2007 total to slightly over two billion euros.


Much of the total for this year came in February when the Dutch
commissioner slapped the biggest fine ever in a EU cartel case by
ordering leading lift makers to pay a combined 992 million euros.


In recent months, her growing team of trustbusters have handed
formal charges against suspected cartels making professional-
quality videotape, glass and bathroom fittings and bulk liquids
shippers.

