

A former Serb soldier convicted of raping and enslaving Muslim
women during Bosnia's 1992-1995 war had a 16-year jail term
increased by four years on appeal, a local court said Wednesday.


A panel of judges "concluded the sentence imposed under the first
instance verdict did not meet the purpose of punishment, and it
therefore revised it," Bosnia's war crimes court said in a
statement.


Radovan Stankovic had originally been sentenced to 16 years' jail
in November after being found guilty of enslaving, torturing,
raping and killing non-Serb civilians in the eastern town of
Foca.


Both Stankovic and prosecutors had appealed the verdict.


Stankovic's case was the first to be transferred to Bosnia from
the UN's International Criminal Tribunal for the former
Yugoslavia (ICTY) based in The Hague. He was arrested by NATO-led
peacekeepers in Bosnia in 2002.


Foca, whose population was 51 percent Muslim before the war, was
the scene of "ethnic cleansing" and killings by the Serb forces
in the early stages of Bosnia's war.


Serb soldiers set up numerous brothels in the area, subjecting
hundreds of Muslim women and girls to sexual abuse and inhumane
treatment.


In its November ruling, the Bosnian court found Stankovic guilty
of helping to run a detention camp where nine Muslim women,
including girls as young as 12 and 14, were held and raped.


He was found to have frequently raped, tortured and beaten one
girl, and offered her to other soldiers, who raped and humiliated
her.


On one occasion he raped the girl's juvenile sister in her
presence.


Bosnian courts are allowed to try low-profile war crimes cases,
while the ICTY deals with those involving top wartime officials.

