

Plans by Bangladesh's military-backed emergency government to
exile former premier Khaleda Zia to Saudi Arabia appeared to
stall Tuesday over visa negotiations, a report said.


The independent New Age daily, quoting diplomatic sources, said
the Saudi embassy in Dhaka has "refused to issue a long-stay visa
to Zia unless she appears at the embassy in person."


The report said Saudi authorities need Zia to "testify to the
fact that she would indeed be entering the kingdom of her own
free will."


The government is trying to exile Zia, the country's last prime
minister and leader of the Bangladesh Nationalist Party (BNP), as
well as Awami League chief Sheikh Hasina Wajed as part of a
massive anti-corruption campaign aimed at giving the country a
new start.


Both women stand accused of years of misrule that culminated in a
political crisis in January. Zia is reported to have agreed to
leave the country in return for leniency for her two sons, both
of whom face corruption allegations.


Sheikh Hasina was on Sunday barred from boarding a flight to
Dhaka from London. Murder and extortion charges were filed
against her last month while she was in the United States
visiting relatives.


A statement issued late Monday, apparently signed by a dozen
leaders of different wings of her Awami League, called on party
activists to stage demonstrations Tuesday against the ban on her
return.


But the party on Tuesday denied any knowledge of the statement.


"We think someone else has issued the statement," Awami League
general secretary and party spokesman Abdul Jalil told AFP.


All political protests and gatherings have been banned since
emergency rule was imposed in January.


The interim government has pledged to hold elections by the end
of 2008 after it has completed sweeping reforms aimed at putting
democracy back on track.

