

Neighbours have complained to Westminster city council over
British Prime Minister Tony Blair's plans to renovate his home,
the British press reported on Tuesday.


Though Blair currently lives in 10 Downing Street, he has
promised to resign as prime minister later this year and anywhere
he moves into will have to meet the approval of the police
protection he will have by his side for the rest of his life.


His family bought a 3.65 million-pound (5.4 million-euro, 7.3
million-dollar) Georgian townhouse in up-market Connaught Square,
west London in 2004 at a discount of 300,000 pounds.


The townhouse is a Grade II listed building, meaning it is of
special interest, warranting every effort to preserve it,
according to English Heritage, thereby making it more difficult
for renovations to be carried out.


The Blairs also bought an 800,000-pound mews house behind the
four-storey townhouse, which they apparently plan to use for
either office or security space.


But plans to extend the townhouse into the mews home, install a
roof terrace, solar panels and extensive CCTV cameras have been
met with opposition by neighbours, according to The Daily
Telegraph and The Guardian.


Citing documents obtained by Conservative blogger Iain Dale, the
papers said that the planning application will be officially
published on Thursday and is set to be discussed on May 3 --
coincidentally the date for elections to some local councils in
England, and regional assemblies in Scotland and Wales.


Objections to the application have apparently been raised by "an
adjoining occupier on a number of design, listed building,
residential amenity and structural grounds."


Despite those objections, council officials have reportedly
recommended that permission be granted because "it is not
considered that the scheme will have a significant impact on
residential amenity."

