

Canon Inc. said Tuesday its net profit grew 21.2 percent in the
quarter to March and revised up its full-year forecast thanks to
the popularity of its high-end digital cameras and printers.


Canon, seen as one of the companies leading Japan's economic
recovery, said it expected sustained growth due to rising demand
in developing countries and emerging economies such as Russia.


Canon posted a net profit of 131.25 billion yen (1.1 billion
dollars) for the first three months, up from 108.27 billion in
the same period a year earlier.


It saw sales of 1.04 trillion yen, up 12.5 percent from the
previous year.


"A significant rise in sales of digital cameras and of laser-beam
printers contributed to this growth," Canon vice president
Toshizo Tanaka told reporters.


A weaker yen "contributed by adding 3.61 billion yen to sales and
2.31 billion yen to operating profit," he said.


Operating profit jumped 21.9 percent from a year earlier to 207.4
billion yen and pretax profit went up 22.6 percent to 207.8
billion yen.


For the full-year to December, Canon now predicts a net profit of
505 billion yen and pretax profit of 800 billion yen on sales of
4.54 trillion yen, upgraded from 495 billion, 775 billion and
4.45 trillion yen respectively.


"We see the global buying boom of digital cameras will continue
for a while, especially in developing countries, countries in
Eastern Europe and Russia," Tanaka said.


But the company said that severe price competition and shifting
demand towards lower-priced models were expected to continue for
its network digital multifunction devices (MFDs) and laser beam
printers.


For the three months to March, sales of business machines --
including MFDs and laser beam printers -- rose 13.3 percent from
a year earlier to 715.4 billion yen, while sales of cameras grew
15.8 percent to 222.4 billion yen.


Canon assumes an exchange rate of 117 yen to the dollar and 155
yen to the euro for this year.


"Although uncertainty over such factors as future interest rates
in major countries makes it difficult to predict the direction of
currency exchange rates, significant changes in rates are not
anticipated," it said in a statement.

