

China has delayed releasing a long-awaited report on how to deal
with climate change, an official said Tuesday, amid rumours of
internal government bickering over its economic impact.


"The release of the National Plan on Climate Change has been
postponed, it was supposed to be released... today," Xu Huaqing,
director of the National Development and Reform Commission's
energy research institute, told AFP.


Xu, who was a co-author of the report, said it aims to discuss
how China should deal with climate-changing greenhouse gases over
the next five years.


He refused to speculate on when the report would be published, or
say why it had been postponed.


According to Yang Ailun, an expert on climate change at
Greenpeace China, the delay was decided in a closed-door meeting
at the reform commission, China's economic planning agency, last
week.


"Greenpeace China regrets this postponement and urges the
government to issue the report in a timely manner," she said.


One Chinese environment campaigner familiar with the process told
AFP that the delay was due to fears by officials over the impact
of measures to curb greenhouse gases on the nation's economic
growth.


"It appears that lower-level officials are having difficulty
putting information together that higher level officials are
willing to approve," said the environmentalist, who did not want
to be named.


"There is a lot of mathematics going on right now."


China, which relies on coal for around 70 percent of its energy
needs, is set to overtake the United States as the world's
largest emitter of greenhouse gases over the next two to three
years.

