

Iran's latest crackdown on badly-veiled women to make them obey
Islamic dress rules has found an unlikely critic in the hardline
head of its judiciary, press reports said on Tuesday.


Ayatollah Mahmoud Hashemi Shahroudi, who is appointed by the
country's supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, warned police
against heavy-handed actions against women found to have broken
the rules.


"Hauling women and young people to the police station will have
no use except to cause damage to society," the reformist Etemad
Melli newspaper quoted Shahroudi as telling a meeting of local
governors.


"Tough measures on social problems will backfire and have
counter-productive effects," he warned.


"Of course, we need to act against organised crime and thugs but
when there is no necessity to take someone to a police station,
there is no need to do it," he added.


Iran has issued 3,500 warnings nationwide and detained around 200
women in the new drive launched on Saturday, according to police
figures quoted by local media.


The campaign -- an annual pre-summer crackdown given greater
prominence this year -- is aimed primarily at women whose coats
are seen as too tight, trousers excessively short or hijabs
(headscarves) overly loose.


It foresees handing out warnings and guidance to women found to
have infringed its dress code of fully covering the head and
bodily contours in public.


Those who show resistance to change can be arrested and then be
the subject to legal proceedings.


Some conservatives have applauded the crackdown as important at a
time when women are pushing the boundaries of what is acceptable
but it has not been overly popular on the street.

