

China unveiled new regulations on Tuesday aimed at improving the
transparency of government departments but said that such
openness would have its limits.


The changes order the state's notoriously opaque officials to
share information on hot-button issues such as land use,
financial accounting and investigations into environmental and
public health.


The rules, which come into effect next year, will require
departments to release information involving "the immediate
interests of individuals and groups" and which clearly explain
the administrative workings of the government.


This will include information on plans for handling emergencies,
the handling of state finances and results of investigations into
environmental protection, public health, and food and drug
safety.


However, the government will continue to reserve the right to
suppress information that threatens "social stability" or divulge
state secrets, a top official with China's State Council said.


The ruling Communist Party has a history of using such reasoning
to restrict politically damaging information on natural
disasters, public health issues and the suppression of dissent.


"When opening government information we should avoid (actions)
that may damage national security, economic security and threaten
social stability," said Zhang Qiong, deputy director of the State
Council's legislative affairs office.


"We need to continue to observe confidentiality laws and refuse
to open information that involves state secrets, business secrets
and individual privacy."


The rules have been signed by Premier Wen Jiabao but will not go
into effect until May 1, 2008 to allow time for China's sprawling
government system to digest them, Zhang said.


State-run Xinhua news agency said the regulations will become
"the country's most specific and progressive rules encouraging
the opening of government information."

