

Nepal will on Tuesday be commemorating the first anniversary of
massive street protests that forced an end to direct rule by King
Gyanendra.


Here is a timeline of recent events in Nepal, from the king's
effort to seize full power to a peace process that has seen
Maoist rebels end their insurgency and enter government.


2005:


- February 1: King Gyanendra dismisses the government after an
upsurge in Maoist violence and assumes full power under a state
of emergency.


- September 3: Maoist rebels announce a new ceasefire.


- November 22: The seven main political parties and Maoist rebels
reach agreement to work together to restore democracy.


2006:


- January 2: The Maoists call off the ceasefire, blaming army
attacks.


- April 8: Soldiers shoot dead two demonstrators after the
government imposes a daytime curfew and cuts mobile telephone
services.


- April 10: The United States demands Gyanendra re-establish
democracy. The European Union echoes the demand the following
day.


- April 15: Thousands march in Kathmandu to cries of "Hang King
Gyanendra".


- April 19: Four demonstrators are killed in eastern Nepal.
Orders are issued to shoot curfew violators on sight as protests
build up.


- April 24: After 19 days of a general strike and violence that
left at least 19 dead, the king announces the restoration of the
parliament he dissolved in 2002.


- April 28: Parliament is reinstated.


- April 30: The king swears in a new premier, the elederly Nepali
Congress party leader Girija Prasad Koirala.


-  May 2: New cabinet is unveiled.


- May 3: Interim government calls an indefinite ceasefire with
the Maoists, who declared a three-month ceasefire the previous
week.


- May 18: Parliament declares the king's divine authority over,
takes away his control of the army and his right to veto
legislation.


- May 26: Nepalese government negotiators launch peace talks with
Maoist rebel leaders.


- May 31: Maoist leader Prachanda makes his first public
appearance in a decade at a meeting in a rural district.


- June 16: Maoists and the government announce parliament is
dissolved and an interim government containing the Maoists will
be set up.


- August 9: Maoists agree to confine forces and weapons to rural
camps and army soldiers agree to stay in barracks, under UN
monitoring.


- August 25: Government and rebels accept a draft interim
constitution which skirts over the king's role.


- October 10: Peace negotiations resume amid a deal struck to
hold elections by mid-2007 to a constituent assembly that will
draw up a permanent constitution.


- November 8: Historic peace deal clinched that will see the
Maoists join an interim government.


- November 21: Prachanda and Prime Minister Girija Prasad Koirala
sign the peace accord, and hail a "new era" for the country.


2007:


- January 15: New interim constitution approved. Maoists given 83
seats in 330-seat interim parliament as part of the peace deal.


- January 17: Maoists start handing in weapons under UN
supervision.


- January 19: Ethnic unrest erupts with Mahadhesis in Terai, in
Southern Nepal, demanding greater autonomy.


- February 23: UN confirms over 30,000 Maoists have disarmed and
registered.


- March 21: Ongoing unrest between Maoists and the ethnic
Mahadhesi community in Southern Nepal continues, more than 60
killed within three months.


- April 1: Maoists join government. Former rebels granted five
ministerial slots in a 22-member cabinet.

