

Female college students in Malaysia's western Selangor state
claim they were forced to strip to their underwear as a
punishment for a colleague skipping class, a report said Tuesday.


According to the New Straits Times, which said the women had
complained to police, the 18 students were summoned Thursday to
the National Youth Skills Training Institute and ordered to strip
by two female instructors.


A student who spoke on condition of anonymity said the teachers
humiliated and verbally abused them for four hours because a
classmate left the institute the day before without permission.


"The instructors told us that they had received orders from their
superiors to instil discipline in us and asked us to place our
bags in the middle of the room," the student was quoted as
telling the newspaper.


"They also confiscated our cellular phones before instructing us
to remove our clothing," she said.


The student said the teachers also threatened severe physical
punishment.


"We were humiliated beyond belief and some of our parents, when
told about the incident, lodged reports," she added.


The institute's personal service faculty head, Rubiah Kassim,
blamed the incident on a "communication breakdown between me and
my staff."


"It was not our intention to humiliate the trainees and I admit
that the teaching assistants had gone a little overboard in their
attempt to discipline the students," Rubiah was quoted as saying.


"But a great many students here have disciplinary problems, from
drinking liquor to lewd behaviour, and we had to do something
about it," she said.


Institute officials said they were investigating the incident,
according to the newspaper.

