

The dollar softened against the yen in Asian trade Tuesday as
investors waited for key US housing and growth figures to clarify
the outlook for US monetary policy, dealers said.


Local players were also waiting for a batch of domestic data and
corporate earnings this week, a day after Standard and Poor's
upgraded the country's credit ratings over its positive economic
outlook for the first time since it rated Japan in 1975.


The dollar slipped to 118.52 yen in Tokyo afternoon trade from
118.64 in New York late Monday.


The euro edged down to 1.3563 dollars from 1.3575 dollars and to
160.72 yen from 161.05.


"Trading is calm as the market is waiting for key US data
released starting today through to Friday. They are also waiting
for Japanese indicators," said Masaki Fukui, senior market
economist at Mizuho Corporate Bank's forex division.


US housing data is out later Tuesday, followed by gross domestic
product (GDP) growth for the first quarter due on Friday.


Investors were anxious to allay qualms that a weak housing sector
could spill over into personal consumption and the general
economy.


After patchy data, market players are hoping to get a clearer
picture of the world's biggest economy and which direction the US
Federal Reserve is likely to take in its monetary policy, Fukui
said.


"The market has already priced in weak economic data so unless
the figure is dramatic, there won't be much impact," he added.


Japanese players were also waiting ahead of a slew of indicators.


Japan will see a raft of data and reports on Friday, including
the Bank of Japan's economic outlook, consumer prices, industrial
output and the jobless rate for March.


The yen got a boost overnight from Standard and Poor's raising
Japan's sovereign credit rating for the first time in over 30
years but investors do not expect the BoJ to rush to raise its
super-low interest rates, dealers said.


"Unless Japanese official interest rates rise to levels
consistent with this outlook, the yen is likely to remain weak,"
wrote National Australia Bank senior strategist John
Kyriakopoulos in a note to clients.


"We don't see another BoJ rate hike until September. As such, we
expect that carry trades will remain well supported," he added,
referring to the practice of borrowing cheaply here to invest in
higher-yielding currencies elsewhere.


Fukui said trading was expected to be choppy ahead of Japan's
Golden Week of holidays starting on Saturday.


The dollar gained against most other Asian currencies.


The dollar rose to 33.198 Taiwan dollars from 33.164 in late
Asian trade Monday, to 926.75 South Korean won from 926.55 and to
47.68 Philippine pesos from 47.55.


It gained to 9,095.0 Indonesian rupiah from 9,085.5 and to 1.5154
Singapore dollars from 1.5122 but fell to 32.58 Thai baht from
32.65.

