

Olympic champion Grant Hackett has ruled out any chance of his
close friend Ian Thorpe making a comeback at the Beijing
Olympics, downplaying a suggestion made by Michael Phelps this
month.


"He won't be competing. He's got closure from the sport now, he's
happy with what he's been able to achieve," Hackett was quoted as
saying in the China Daily.


"It would be great to have him there, he is irreplaceable in the
team. I know someone like Michael Phelps would love to get up
against him in the 200m freestyle, compete against him again.


"Ian kind of beat him last time and he's always wanted to compete
against him again."


US phenomenon Phelps said here this month that he wouldn't be
surprised if Thorpe made a comeback.


Australia's Thorpe, who won five Olympic and 10 world titles
during his career, retired last November but was thrown back into
the spotlight at the world championships last month when drug
allegations were made against him.


French newspaper L'Equipe reported that he had returned high
levels of testosterone and another naturally occurring hormone in
a doping control in May last year.


Thrope vigorously denied any wrongdoing and vowed to clear his
name.


Hackett said the allegations had shaken his compatriot, who has
long campaigned for tougher drug testing.


"The drug allegations really hurt him personally, people tried to
tarnish the things he achieved," he told the paper.


"That's been difficult for him. Personally he felt those effects,
but at end of the day he turned a negative result.


"They are allegations, they don't have any substance. It's part
of sport and I'd like to see drug testing move forward. You just
hope if you do perform well it isn't overshadowed by something
like that."

