

Beijing plans to introduce a copyright theft hotline as part of a
crackdown on piracy ahead of the 2008 Olympic Games, top
officials said here Wednesday.


The city government hotline will let citizens report fake Olympic
and other merchandise, officials told a press conference.


"Law enforcement will follow up the calls within 24 hours to
flush out the violators," said Wang Lijun, vice director of
Beijing's Intellectual Property Office.


"The system is being set up now and will be in operation very
soon."


China's cabinet, the State Council, issued regulations in 2002 to
protect Olympic symbols from copyright violations.


But Wang said that changing Chinese people's attitudes to fake
goods was still a major problem.


"It is a difficult task and we still have a long way to go," he
told the media briefing organised by the Beijing Olympic
organising committee.


Although the hotline will be set up, piracy is hardly a secret in
Beijing.


Fake Olympic products are already available on the Internet and
hawkers line commercial streets here selling baseball hats with
the Olympic rings and the dancing-man Games logo for roughly one
dollar.


High-profile markets also dot the city selling all types of fake
products, from top-quality branded products to Hollywood movies
and sporting products.


Protecting Olympic properties has become a top priority for his
department in the run up to next year's August 8-24 Olympic
Games, Wang said.


In 2006 a total of 89 cases of Olympic piracy were prosecuted and
the figure for 2007 would be significantly higher, according to
Wang.


Earlier this month the United States took China before the World
Trade Organisation over "rampant" abuse of copyright and other
intellectual property rights in China.


Last year the European Union also said Chinese piracy was a key
issue in bilateral trade relations.

