

Japan's Toyota Motor Corp. became the world's best selling
automaker in the three months to March, overtaking US rival
General Motors thanks to brisk demand for its fuel-efficient
cars.


Japan's top automaker sold 2.348 million vehicles in the first
quarter of 2007, a company spokesman said Tuesday, beating GM
which earlier reported record global sales of 2.26 million cars
and trucks for the same period.


Toyota is enjoying strong sales, particularly in the United
States, as higher prices at the pump boost demand for compact
cars, small sport utility vehicles and hybrids which use a mix of
electricity and petrol.


The Japanese automaker is expected to report later this month a
seventh consecutive year of record profits on the back of brisk
shipments overseas.


"In terms of earnings and cash-flow, Toyota has been already by
far the strongest company globally for a long time," said Tatsuya
Mizuno, an analyst who covers the auto sector for Fitch Ratings.


"I think that the current trend will continue, led by strong
customer support for compact fuel efficient and environmental
friendly cars," he added.


Toyota was a pioneer of environmentally-friendly hybrids, which
proved a major hit in the United States, whose own automakers
have spent the last decade focusing on gas-guzzling sports
utility vehicles.


Struggling GM made a loss of two billion dollars in 2006,
although it earned 950 million dollars in the fourth quarter, its
first quarterly profit in two years thanks to a major cost-
cutting effort.


Toyota has been expanding its production in the United States to
try to avoid trade friction with Washington and just this month
named the head of its fast- growing North American operations as
its first foreign director.


The Japanese automaker this week broke ground on its eighth North
American manufacturing plant.

