

The leader of the Scottish National Party, which is campaigning
for an independent Scotland, said in an interview published
Tuesday that he was "flexible" on plans for a referendum on
independence.


The SNP are currently leading the governing Labour Party in polls
for May 3 elections and have vowed to publish plans for a
referendum on independence within the first 100 days of coming to
power, with a vote to be held in 2010.


But while they are leading the polls, they are projected as
unlikely to have sufficient seats in the Scottish parliament to
form a government without entering a coalition, and the comments
from SNP leader Alex Salmond are likely to be seen as paving the
way for a joint government with the Liberal Democrats.


"Obviously my preference is to have a referendum on independence
which said yes or no -- that would be my overwhelming
preference," Salmond told The Guardian daily.


"But it's possible to conceive of a multi-option referendum ...
in principle, we could agree to a multi-option referendum."


The Liberal Democrats have said they will not enter a coalition
with the SNP if it insists on holding an independence referendum,
but his comments may allay some of their concerns, by allowing
for a second question on whether or not the Scottish parliament
should be given increased powers.


British Prime Minister Tony Blair's government in 1999 gave
Scotland devolved powers over health, education, housing and the
environment, but not defence, foreign and economic policy.


Salmond also told The Guardian that he was willing to delay the
publication of plans for the referendum, thereby giving the
Liberal Democrats time to include their own arguments on the
issue.


"My job is to get to a situation where the people of Scotland get
the opportunity to decide on independence," Salmond said.


"I'm prepared to be as flexible as possible about the timing as
long as that decision (on independence) is open to the Scottish
people to make."

