

Iran dampened any hopes of a breakthrough in crunch talks on
Wednesday with the EU on its nuclear programme by insisting it
has no intention of yielding to the West's key demand on the
atomic drive.


Iran's top nuclear negotiator Ali Larijani is due to meet EU
foreign policy chief Javier Solana in the Turkish capital Ankara
for their first face-to-face talks in over two months in a bid to
break the deadlock in the nuclear crisis.


The pair will examine if there is any scope for reopening
negotiations to find an end to a five-year standoff that has
raised tensions between Iran and the West and seen Tehran slapped
with two sets of UN sanctions.


"I expect to have a resumption of the talks that we had some time
ago and see if we can move toward negotiations," Solana said.


However comments by top Iranian officials have dealt a blow to
any expectations that Tehran would give ground on the key Western
demand that it suspends uranium enrichment, a process that can be
used to make atomic weapons.


"Why are they emphasising that Iran should suspend even for a
month?" President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad said in an interview late
Tuesday with Iran's Arabic language channel Al-Alam, according to
the Farsi transcript.


"What is in it for them? Is it a legal matter? No, it is not a
legal matter as it is not in charter of the UN nuclear watchdog,"
he said.


Ahmadinejad said there was no chance of the present conservative
government repeating the suspension of enrichment imposed as a
goodwill gesture by his reformist predecessor Mohammad Khatami.


"In the past, Iran suspended and it resulted in the closing down
of all of our research facilities for more than two-and-a-half
years and we were all left behind in the scientific caravan," he
said.


The sensitivity of enriched uranium lies in the fact the
substance can be used both to make nuclear fuel and, in highly
enriched form, the explosive core of a nuclear bomb. Iran insists
it only wants to produce civilian energy.


Iran has also upped the stakes in a standoff that has seen it
slapped with two sets of UN sanctions, saying it has reached an
"industrial scale" of enrichment and wants over 50,000 uranium-
enriching centrifuges.


Larijani warned Solana not to insist on Iran suspending
enrichment and come up with something new in the talks to
recognise the progress claimed by Tehran on its nuclear
programme.


"Solana should not talk about preconditions. New conditions mean
there are new requirements and new initiatives should be
presented," Larijani said. "Artificial views and diplomatic
dancing in talks will have no result."


Iran faces a new UN Security Council deadline in one month to
suspend enrichment, after which it could be hit with more
sanctions. The United States has also never ruled out a military
attack to bring Iran to heel.


Iran's foreign ministry spokesman Mohammad Ali Hosseini has
however said he noted a "softening of tone" from Europe and even
its arch enemy the United States in recent weeks, without
specifying what statements he was referring to.


The choice of Turkey as a venue, which Iranian media said came
after intervention by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, is
also set to fuel hopes that Ankara can help with mediation
efforts between the two sides.


Solana and Larijani held several rounds of discussions last year
which failed to find a solution to the crisis. They last met
face-to-face for informal talks on the sidelines of a Munich
security conference on February 11.

