

Thai tennis hero Paradorn Srichaphan and former Miss Universe
Natalie Glebova announced their engagement Tuesday in a
nationally televised live news conference.


Paradorn, 28, said he proposed to 25-year-old Glebova on April 13
while they were holidaying on the Indonesian resort island of
Bali.


"I totally believe in my heart that we love each other, and that
time doesn't matter," he said when asked about their decision to
marry after eight months of dating.


Glebova, a 25-year-old Russian-born Canadian, said that she met
Paradorn last year while the two were visiting a Buddhist temple
that runs a hospice for people with AIDS.


"He's very compassionate to other people and open to them," she
said. "He helps other people. That's why I love him."


"The feeling straight from my heart is that, yes, I will spend
the rest of my life and build my family with this person," the
dark-haired, green-eyed beauty added.


Paradorn draped her in a total of 16 carats in diamonds,
including a three carat engagement ring, along with a necklace
and earrings given by his parents.


He said they would probably tie the knot in November or December.


Their announcement was carried live on every Thai television
station.


Paradorn, the former world No. 9, and Glebova were first seen
together last year when she kissed him after he beat Britain's
Tim Henman in the quarter-finals of the Thailand Open, according
to Thai media.


Glebova, who won the 2005 Miss Universe title in a pageant held
in Thailand, has since taken up residence in the kingdom and
become a major celebrity. She has signed an endorsement deal to
become a "brand ambassador" for the kingdom's Singha beer.


Paradorn was long Asia's top-rated men's player before sliding
out of the world's top 50 for the first time in five years in
2006.


He became a staple of gossip magazines when he dated Thai pop
diva Tata Young.

