

Australian flag-carrier Qantas has decided to buy a 30 percent
stake in stake in Vietnam's Pacific Airlines as part of a move to
expand in the Asian market, it was reported Tuesday.


The Australian Financial Review reported the Qantas board last
week gave the green light to the purchase, worth about 50 million
dollars (41.5 million US).


Citing sources close to Qantas, the newspaper said the investment
was a key plank in the airline's strategy to take on low-cost
carriers such as Air Asia and Tiger Airways in the world's
fastest growing aviation market.


It said the 30 percent stake was the maximum Qantas was allowed
to take under Vietnam's foreign investment laws.


Qantas confirmed in January that it was engaged in talks on
buying a stake in the Ho Chi Minh City-based Pacific Airlines.


The Financial Review reported the private consortium bidding to
take over Qantas had approved the deal.


Vietnamese government's State Capital Investment Corporation
(SCIC) is Pacific Airlines controlling shareholder, with Saigon
Tourist Corporation also holding a stake, according to the
airline's website.


Meanwhile, Qantas said it was expanding its codeshare agreement
with Air France to include flights travelling via Hong Kong.


Qantas executive general manager John Borghetti said that from
May 1, 14 Qantas flights a week from Australia to Hong Kong would
connect with Air France services to Paris.


He said Air France passengers travelling from Hong Kong to
Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane will fly on Qantas planes.


"This new agreement will enhance our existing daily codeshare
services operating to Paris via Singapore from Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane and Perth, and three per week from Adelaide," Borghetti
said in a statement.

