

The United States is to announce within six months the location
of a new Africa command to oversee US military activities on the
continent, a top Defense Department official said Monday.


"Our thinking is still evolving," said Principal Deputy Under
Secretary of Defense for Policy Ryan Henry, adding that a
decision was expected "prior to the beginning of October" and the
Pentagon would like to see the Africa command fully operational
by September 2008.


"The only major decision that's been made is that the commander
of AFRICOM will be stationed ... specifically .. on the
continent," he said.


President George W. Bush decided in February that an African
regional command would be set up, but did not say where.


Creation of the new command comes amid stepped up US military
activities in the region, much of it aimed at denying new havens
for militant Islamic groups aligned with Al-Qaeda.


Africa "is emerging on the world scene as a strategic player and
we need to deal with it as a continent," Henry said.


Henry has just returned from an April 15-21 trip to Nigeria,
South Africa, Kenya, Ethiopia, Ghana and Senegal for talks for
opening the regional command.


However, the headquarters may not be located in one of those six
countries, and the United States is still in "fact-gathering
mode," he said.


The Pentagon's coverage of Africa is currently divided into three
regional commands. Central Command (CENTCOM), based in Tampa,
Florida, is in charge of US military operations in the Middle
East and Afghanistan as well as Egypt, Sudan and the Horn of
Africa region.


The European Command (EUCOM), based in Stuttgart, Germany, is
responsible for the rest of Africa. Pacific Command (PACOM),
based in Hawaii, is responsible for the island of Madagascar.

