

Tamil Tiger rebels on Tuesday carried out only their second-ever
air attack on Sri Lankan government troops, a guerrilla spokesman
told AFP.


Two light aircraft of the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE)
dropped bombs on a military air base in the Jaffna peninsula just
after midnight, spokesman Rasiah Ilanthiriyan said.


"We have carried out our second air attack... on the Palaly air
field and their military stores," Ilanthiriyan said by satellite
telephone from northern Sri Lanka.


A Sri Lankan military spokesman said he was checking on the
report.


Ilanthiriyan said their pilots saw flames after dropping bombs on
the Palaly complex, the main airbridge to the Jaffna peninsula, a
former Tigers bastion that was captured by troops in December
1995.


The rebels, whose drawn-out campaign for an independent state for
the island's ethnic Tamil minority has left more than 60,000
people dead, carried out their first-ever aerial attack on Sri
Lankan forces last month.


In that attack, the guerrillas flew two aircraft over the
island's main military air base, which shares a runway with Sri
Lanka's only international airport, and dropped six bombs. Three
airmen were killed and 17 wounded.


The aircraft flew for more than an hour to return to rebel-held
territory in the island's north without being challenged either
by military aircraft or troops on the ground.


Since then, the Sri Lankan military has acquired night-flying
capabilities and said it has bombed several suspected Tiger
targets, including guerrilla naval assets, communications
facilities and training camps.


Sri Lanka's military had also stepped up its air defences and set
up a telephone hotline in case citizens notice any unidentified
aircraft.


Hours before Tuesday's pre-dawn attack, a roadside bomb killed
three people and wounded 35 in Vavuniya, which is next to a
rebel-held area, the defence ministry said earlier.

