

US President George W. Bush on Monday reaffirmed his confidence
in Attorney General Alberto Gonzales, as the embattled official
himself vowed to stay on the job.


"The attorney general went up and gave a very candid assessment
and answered every question he could possibly answer, honestly
answer," said Bush, commenting on Gonzales' widely panned
congressional testimony last week.


"And in a way that increased my confidence in his ability to do
the job," said Bush.


Prominent Democrats and even some of the president's Republican
allies have called for Gonzales to resign as a scandal grew over
mass firings of federal prosecutors in late 2006.


"As the investigation or the hearings went forward, it was clear
that the attorney general broke no law, did no wrongdoing," Bush
told reporters.


"And some senators didn't like his explanation, but he answered
as honestly as he could. And this is an honest, honorable man in
whom I have confidence," said the president.


"I will stay as long as I believe I can be effective," said
Gonzales, speaking at a Federal Trade Commission press conference
on identity theft.


"As long as I think that I can be effective and the president
believes that I should continue to be at the head of the
Department of Justice, I'll continue serving," he said.


"I can't be focused only on the US attorneys situation," Gonzales
added.


"I am focused on making sure our kids are safe, making sure our
neighborhoods are safe, making sure our consumers are safe."


Critics have charged that the eight US attorneys were fired for
political, rather than judicial, reasons.


In his testimony last week, Gonzales was criticized by both
Democrats and Republicans for repeatedly insisting that he could
not recall his role in key parts of the decision to remove the
prosecutors.

