

The first round in Turkey's presidential election will be held in
parliament on Friday, officials said Tuesday.


A parliamentary committee scheduled the second round for May 2,
the third for May 9 and the fourth for May 15.


The governing Justice and Development Party (AKP) is expected to
announce its candidate for the election later Tuesday.


The AKP is virtually certain to elect the candidate of its choice
thanks to the comfortable majority of 353 seats it holds in the
550-member parliament.


But the AKP candidate is not expected to get the post in the
first two rounds of voting, when a two-thirds majority of 367 is
required, but in the third or fourth round, when a simple
majority of 276 suffices.


Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who had been widely expect
to run for the post, is not likely to stand, acccording to media
reports Tuesday.


Erdogan's purported intention to stand for president has faced
harsh objections from secularists, who say the former Islamist,
who now describes himself as a conservative democrat, is a
divisive figure with no true commitment to this mainly Muslim
nation's secular system.


The registration period for candidates expires at midnight on
Wednesday and the AKP has come under fire for keeping its
candidate secret until the last moment.


Only a dissident AKP parliament member has so far put forward his
candidacy, in what he described as a protest gesture at the
party's handling of the process.


The AKP's solid parliamentary majority has discouraged opposition
parties from fielding candidates.


The single, seven-year term of outgoing President Ahmet Necdet
Sezer expires on May 16.

