

Two Chinese companies, hit with fresh US sanctions aimed at
stopping banned military dealings with Iran and Syria, denied
Tuesday that they were doing business with the two nations.


"We don't have any military dealings with either Iran or Syria,"
Wang Qing, secretary of manager of Beijing-based China National
Precision Machinery Import and Export Corporation, told AFP.


The Zibo Chemet Equipment Company (China), another company that
is targeted by the sanctions announced by Washington on Monday,
also denied any involvement.


"We used to have a little business with Iran and Syria, but no
more now," said an official surnamed Wang, with the international
trading department of the company that is based in the eastern
province of Shandong.


The Shanghai Non-Ferrous Metals Pudong Development Trade Company,
the last Chinese company on the list, was not immediately
available for comment.


The three firms, along with another 11 entities from various
countries, were accused by Washington of transferring to or
buying from Iran or Syria materials related to cruise or
ballistic missile systems or weapons of mass destruction.


Under the Iran and Syria Nonproliferation Act, the 14 are barred
from doing business with or receiving aid from any US government
agencies for two years.


US State Department officials refused to elaborate on specific
charges against any of the named entities, saying this could
reveal classified intelligence information.


The two Chinese firms contacted by AFP said they had not been
officially informed of the new sanctions.


But Wang from China National Precision Machinery Import and
Export Corporation said his company was already the subject of
previous sanctions from the United States.


"We have been on their list for a long time. The old sanctions
are not over yet. (The sanctions) hurt our business," Wang said.

