

Experts are at a loss to explain why two teenage girls strangled
their friend and cold-bloodedly watched her face as she died, an
Australian court heard Tuesday.


The two 17-year-olds, who cannot be named because of their age,
have admitted murdering their 15-year-old friend Eliza Davis last
June, telling police it "felt right" to kill her.


Prosecutor Simon Stone told said at a sentencing hearing it
appeared the pair just wanted to experience killing someone, the
national AAP news agency reported.


Lawyers for the girls said experts had been unable to determine
why the girls turned into murderers in the small coal mining town
of Collie.


One of them sneaked up behind Eliza as she was reading, wrapped
speaker wire around her throat and tightened it as the other held
her down, trying to press a chemical-soaked cloth into her mouth.


Stone said one of the girls -- who were 16 at the time -- had
described watching Eliza's reactions change from anger to fear to
the realisation that she was going to die.


But neither of them gave in to Eliza's desperate pleas for them
to stop, he said. They then buried their friend in a shallow
grave under her home, reported her missing and pretended to help
her family search for her.


Their lawyers submitted that both girls had troubled upbringings,
with one failing to deal with the death of her mother while the
second fell into the macabre "Goth" culture and had a
preoccupation with death.


"Nobody has been able to provide an explanation," lawyer Gillian
Braddock told the court.


The prosecutor said the three girls had used cannabis and the
methamphetamine ice at a party the night before but it was not
enough to affect their sense of right and wrong.


He called for them to be sentenced to life in prison. Sentence
will be passed on May 9.

