

Nine US soldiers were killed in single suicide bombing in Iraq,
the US military reported Tuesday, making it the bloodiest day for
American forces since January 20.


The blast brought to 3,330 the military's losses since the start
of the US-led invasion in 2003, according to an AFP tally based
on Pentagon figures.


Following are attacks in which nine or more US servicemembers or
their coalition allies died since May 1, 2003, when US President
George W. Bush announced the end of major combat in Iraq.


This list does not include aviation and road transport accidents.


-- 2003 --


- Nov 2: A US helicopter is shot down near Fallujah, west of
Baghdad, killing 16 soldiers and wounding 26 others.


- Nov 12: An attack against an Italian contingent in Nasiriyah,
southern Iraq kills 28 people, including 19 Italians.


- Nov 15: Two US helicopters collide over Mosul, northern Iraq,
killing 17 people after one of the aircraft tried to avoid a
rocket-propelled grenade.


-- 2004 --


- Jan 8: A US helicopter is shot down near Fallujah, killing nine
soldiers.


- April 6: Twelve US marines are killed in Ramadi, west of
Baghdad.


- Dec 21: A suicide attack in a US mess hall in Mosul kills 22
people, including 14 soldiers and four US civilians, and wounds
72 others. Ansar Al-Sunna, a Sunni group close to Al-Qaeda,
claims the attack.


-- 2005 --


- Jan 9: Eight Ukrainian soldiers and a Kazakh soldier are killed
trying to defuse a bomb near Suweira, eastern central Iraq. The
Islamic Army in Iraq claims the attack but the Polish military
says it was an accident.


- Aug 3: Fourteen marines and a civilian interpreter are killed
by a bomb in Haditha in the western Anbar province.


- Dec 2: Ten US marines are killed and 11 more wounded by a
roadside bomb on the outskirts of Fallujah.


-- 2006 --


-- 2007 --


- Jan 20: US army Blackhawk call-sign Easy 4-0 helicopter was hit
by heavy machine gun fire northeast of Baghdad. All 12 people on
board were killed.

