

A surprise easing of inflationary pressures revealed in official
figures Tuesday suggests Australia's central bank is unlikely to
raise interest rates at its meeting next week, analysts said.


The consumer price index (CPI) in the three months to March rose
0.1 percent from the previous quarter and was up 2.4 percent
year-on-year, the Australian Bureau of Statistics said.


The market consensus forecast was for a 0.6 percent quarter-on-
quarter rise and a 3.0 percent year-on-year increase.


The figures put the annual rate of inflation was well within the
Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) 2.0-3.0 percent target range,
reducing the chances of another interest rate hike.


The central bank holds its next policy meeting on May 1 to
determine whether to change its official cash rate from a six-
year high of 6.25 percent.


NAB Capital Markets economists said they had seen a rise of 0.7
percent or less in the quarterly inflation number as leading the
RBA to most likely leave rates on hold next week.


HSBC Australia and New Zealand chief economist John Edwards said
his firm's view was that interest rates will remain on hold for
2007 although price pressures could build, increasing the case
for a hike later in the year.


"If business investment remains firm, exports pick up strongly,
residential construction comes back and household spending growth
accelerates, then further tightening is inevitable," he said.


CommSec chief economist Craig James observed that the RBA had
noted in late February that it had become more confident on the
inflation outlook and he said that confidence has been entirely
justified.


"Inflation is back firmly in the 2.0-3.0 percent target band and
more importantly, it's set to stay there courtesy of a higher
Australian dollar pushing down prices of imported goods in coming
months," James said.


The Australian dollar, which had been trading near 17-year highs,
fell to 0.8282 US dollars immediately after the data was
released, from 0.8324.


In the fourth quarter to December 2006, CPI fell 0.1 percent
quarter-on-quarter but was up 3.3 percent year-on-year.


Treasurer Peter Costello described the latest figures as showing
inflation was "moderate" and firmly within the central bank's
target range.


"It looks as if the underlying measures of inflation peaked in
June 2006 and since then have been decelerating," he said.


He acknowledged that the severe drought facing the country would
create price pressures but said the economic fundamentals
remained strong.


The prospect of having no water allocated to the crop-growing
Murray-Darling Basin would not only detract from growth but also
put pressure on food prices.


Australia's high exchange rate and future oil prices were also
putting pressure on the economy ahead of next month's federal
budget, Costello said.


"The backdrop to which this budget gets framed is a very
difficult one," Mr Costello said.


"Now, we've always been framing budgets to make sure we keep
inflation within this band. The good news is we are on track but
we have to keep it there."

