

Japanese share prices closed flat Tuesday, weighed down by Wall
Street's retreat overnight and investor caution ahead of a slew
of domestic company results and economic data due this week,
dealers said.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
fell 3.6 points to 17,451.77.


The broader Topix index of all first-section shares added 0.53
points to 1,706.16.


Gainers outnumbered decliners 1,031 to 565, with 133 issues flat.


Volume slipped to 1.82 billion shares from 1.90 billion on
Monday.


"Basically, domestic investors were sitting on the sidelines as
leading corporations line up their earnings results," said
Fumiyuki Nakanishi, chief strategist at SMBC Friend Securities.


Dealers said individual investors had bought small-cap stocks but
that, overall, trading was directionless.


Among corporations scheduled to announce their earnings this week
are Sharp, Advantest, Toshiba Corp, Fujitsu, Honda Motor, Nissan
Motor, Mitsubishi Motors, All Nippon Airways, NTT DoCoMo and
Matsushita Electric Industrial.


On Friday, a batch of economic indicators are due to be released,
including the latest consumer price index and industrial
production figures and the Bank of Japan's latest report on the
outlook for economic activity and prices.


"Besides domestic earnings and economic data, investors also
would like to see what happens to US stocks in light of the
earnings results there," said Nakanishi.


Nissan Motor gained eight yen or 0.7 percent at 1,228 after the
car maker revealed a plan to introduce a voluntary retirement
program, in which up to 12,000 staff can participate, as part of
its efforts to realign its domestic operations amid sluggish
sales.


Toyota Motor slipped 40 yen or 0.5 percent to 7,370. Japan's
automaker said it sold 2.348 million vehicles in the first
quarter of 2007, beating US rival General Motors which sold 2.26
million cars and trucks for the same period.


Electronics shares were mixed. Advantest shed 40 yen or 0.7
percent to 5,590 and Tokyo Electron dropped 50 yen or 0.6 percent
to 8,640.


But Elpida Memory gained 50 yen or 1.1 percent to 4,830 and Canon
rose 100 yen or 1.5 percent to 6,660.


On the foreign exchange market, the dollar slipped to 118.52 yen
in Tokyo afternoon trade from 118.64 in New York late Monday.


The euro edged down to 1.3563 dollars from 1.3575 dollars and to
160.72 yen from 161.05.

