

Abortion and miscarriage do not raise the risk of breast cancer,
according to a study published Monday by the US National Cancer
Institute in the Archives of Internal Medicine.


The 10-year study, performed on a sample of 105,716 US
participants, rejects prior studies that suggested a link between
prematurely terminated pregnancies and breast cancer.


The subjects were nurses aged 29-46 at the start of the study.
They answered questions every two years via anonymous
questionnaire about their medical history, including whether they
had abortions, miscarriages and breast cancer.


"Among this predominantly pre-menopausal population, neither
induced nor spontaneous abortion was associated with the
incidence of breast cancer," said the study's authors from
Brigham and Women's hospital and Harvard Medical School in the
northeastern state of Massachusetts.


The data provides "further evidence of a lack of an important
overall association between induced or spontaneous abortions and
risk of breast cancer."


"We found no association between induced abortion and breast
cancer incidence and a suggestion of an inverse association
between spontaneous abortion (miscarriage) and breast cancer
during 10 years of follow up," the study said.


However, the inverse relationship -- women who had a miscarriage
before age 20 showed a reduced risk of breast cancer -- was found
in a small sampling of women and "thus, chance has to be
considered as a possible explanation."


The conclusions of the study were similar to those of a 2003
panel convened by the National Cancer Institute which found no
evidence linking abortion or miscarriage to higher breast cancer
rates.

