

Japanese share prices fell 0.80 percent in morning trade Tuesday,
depressed by Wall Street's retreat overnight, dealers said.


They said a number of investors remained on the sidelines ahead
of the release of corporate earnings reports by key Japanese
companies this week.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
fell 140.18 points to 17,315.19 by the lunch break.


The broader Topix index of all first-section shares lost 13.22
points or 0.78 percent to 1,692.41.


Decliners led gainers 1,016 to 548, with 158 stocks flat.


Volume was 794 million shares, down from 836 million on Monday
morning.


Shares eased back after Wall Street's Dow Jones index paused in
its record- breaking run Monday as investors awaited fresh
economic news this week, dealers said.


Investors in Japan were awaiting results later Tuesday from Yahoo
Japan, Elpida Memory, KDDI and Nikko Cordial for the fiscal year
to March 2007 while Canon will release its results for the
January-March quarter.


"Selling by offshore funds ... was active ... with Japanese
institutions staying on the sidelines," a trader at a European
brokerage firm said.


Market players generally expect major companies to have achieved
growth in both revenue and profit during the last fiscal year,
dealers said.


However, toiletry maker Kao forecast Monday a drop in profits,
alerting investors to the possibility of disappointments from
other companies, dealers said. Kao stock fell 120 yen or 3.54
percent to 3,270.


Hoya shed 100 yen or 2.51 percent to 3,880 following the lack of
positive surprises in its results.


Toshiba fell nine yen or 1.02 percent to 876 despite the Nikkei
reporting the company was likely to report a record net profit of
some 135 billion yen (1.1 billion dollars), 73 percent more than
the year before.


Nissan Motor gained 11 yen or 0.9 percent at 1,231 after the car
maker revealed a plan to introduce a voluntary retirement
program, in which up to 12,000 staff can participate, as part of
its efforts to realign its domestic operations amid sluggish
sales.

