

International war crime prosecutors will meet in Cambodia in
September to discuss efforts to bring to justice those behind
some of the world's worst atrocities, a court official said
Tuesday.


The annual conference aimed to give prosecutors a chance to
exchange ideas and experiences from international tribunals set
up over the last decade, said Robert Petit, a co-prosecutor at
the Khmer Rouge tribunal here.


Prosecutors from tribunals for Rwanda, Sierra Leone and the
former Yugoslavia, as well as the International Criminal Court in
The Hague would be invited to the conference, Petit said.


Officials from the Khmer Rouge tribunal would host the event, he
said.


"It's going to help remind everybody of the importance of this
tribunal," Petit told AFP.


"It is very important for the prosecutors to be able to exchange
ideas and solutions to problems and assist each other," he said,
adding the New York-based Open Society Institute (OSI) would fund
the two-day meeting.


Up to two million people died of overwork and starvation or were
executed under the 1975-79 rule of the Khmer Rouge, which
abolished religion, property rights, currency and schools.


Millions more were driven from the cities onto vast collective
farms as the ultra-Maoist regime sought to create an agrarian
utopia.


Cambodia and the United Nations spent years negotiating how to
hold a tribunal for Khmer Rouge leaders, but since the special
court opened in July, trials have been held up by disputes among
local and international judges on the bench.


Trials are not expected to begin until early 2008 at the
earliest.

