

Police said they were surrounding for a third day Tuesday what
they believed to be about 200 Taliban fighters, including some
top leaders, in a rugged part of southern Afghanistan.


They had seized weapons and two vehicles from the area in Uruzgan
province and blown up one which was filled with explosives,
provincial police chief General Mohammad Qasim told AFP.


The group had assembled in the area for a meeting and some
reports suggested that the Taliban military operations commander
in the south, Mullah Dadullah, was among them, Qasim said.


A Taliban spokesman rejected the claims.


The International Security Assistance Force, which has troops in
Uruzgan -- mainly Australians and Dutch nationals -- said it was
not involved in any activities in the province.


"I can confirm that we have reports of around 200 Taliban being
surrounded in Uruzgan for three days," interior ministry
spokesman Zemarai Bashary said in Kabul.


"We have tightened the circle around them," said Qasim, the
police chief. "We are cautious and do not use military means
since the area is a civilian residential area and military
operations may cause civilian casualties."


Deputy Interior Minister for Security Affairs Abdul Hadi Khalid
reportedly told the upper house of parliament Monday that the
militants were running low on ammunition.


"If they failed to surrender, we will go on to arrest them," he
said, according to a report by the Pahjwok Afghan News agency.


The Taliban insurgent movement -- which consists of hardcore
fighters who follow an extremist, anti-Western ideology as well
as mercenaries -- has killed hundreds of civilians and troops
this year in its campaign against the government.


The Al-Qaeda-supported group was in power from 1996 to 2001, when
it was ousted by a US-led coalition.

