

BHP Billiton Tuesday announced record output for the nine months
to March, putting the world's largest miner on track to report an
all-time high annual net profit of more than 13 billion US
dollars.


BHP Billiton, which last year posted a record 10.45 billion US
dollar profit, said the output of key commodities including iron
ore, copper and nickel was underpinned by strong demand.


China's booming economy and insatiable thirst for resources is a
driving force in the high levels of demand for the miner's
products.


BHP Billiton said output of natural gas, alumina, aluminum and
manganese also reached record levels during the first nine months
of its fiscal year, which ends in June.


For the six months to December BHP Billiton posted a 6.17 billion
US dollar net profit, up 41.3 percent from a year earlier.


For the nine-month period to March, iron output rose 9.0 percent
year-on-year to 72.45 million tonnes.


The group said copper output set a new quarterly record due to
the ramp up of the Escondida sulphide leach project and recently
commissioned Spence project, both in Chile.


During the quarter, Spence produced 33,500 tons of the red metal,
equivalent to 67 percent of the project's nameplate capacity.


Copper output rose 4.0 percent year-on-year to 908,000 tonnes and
nickel output from mines in Columbia and Australia also rose 4.0
percent to 138,600 tonnes.


BHP Billiton said a number of projects were progressing according
to revised budgets and timetables after labor and material
shortages pushed construction costs up and extended development
timetables.


The group is spending 17.5 billion US dollars on 29 new projects.


It said at the Ravensthorpe nickel project in the south of
Western Australia, where costs have more than doubled to around
2.2 billion US dollars, first ore was delivered during the March
quarter.


The project is now scheduled to start producing nickel
concentrate in the first quarter of the 2008 calendar year.

