

Two Muslims were shot dead by suspected Islamic rebels in
Thailand's restive south, as the country's junta leader mulled
troop reinforcement in the restive region Tuesday.


A 46-year-old Muslim was killed in a drive-by shooting early
Tuesday while driving a motorcycle in Pattani, one of three
Muslim-majority southern provinces bordering Malaysia, police
said.


In nearby Narathiwat province, a 44-year-old Muslim villager was
gunned down in another drive-by shooting while riding a
motorcycle late Monday.


More than 2,100 people have been killed in the three-year
southern unrest with violence escalating in the last six months
despite peace efforts by the military-backed government, which
came to power after a September coup.


The junta leader, General Sonthi Boonyaratglin, told a local
paper that he was considering boosting the military presence in
the south in an effort to rein in the ongoing violence.


"I am considering sending more troops as reinforcements," Sonthi,
the first Muslim to head the mainly Buddhist Thai army, was
quoted by the Thai language Matichon newspaper as saying on
Tuesday.


He did not give details, and army officials could not be reached
for confirmation. Currently, some 30,000 troops are stationed in
the three restive provinces of Yala, Narathiwat and Pattani.


Sonthi also rejected a recommendation last week by a senior army
official that the government should grant amnesty to "militant
sympathisers" in an effort to ease the violence.


The three provinces were once an autonomous sultanate, until the
region was annexed by mainly Buddhist Thailand a century ago.
Separatist unrest has erupted periodically ever since.

