

Russia maintained its gold medal monopoly in the synchronised
swimming with another consummate victory this time in the team
technical at the world championships here Wednesday.


The superbly-drilled eight-women Russian team totalled 99.000
points with Japan second on 97.833 and Spain taking the bronze
with 97.167.


It follows Russia's victories in the free combination, solo
technical and duet technical.


Again it was another sublime performance, as they picked up
scores of 10 from two of the 10 judges.


"There's always space on the wall for another one. We always have
more goals ahead of us to work towards," team member Maria
Gromova said of the Russians' domination.


Teammate Olga Kuzhela said of the Russian team's performance:
"When we saw ourselves today in slow motion we saw that our
elements were ideal and probably better than ever.


"It's our life, there's a personal life and a sporting life, but
for us it's one and the same. We are sisters, our coach is our
mother and this is our family."


Just like in the preliminaries, where they received a score of
98.500, it was another flawless routine, exhibiting their perfect
synchronisation.


Japan have now won all the silver medals in the team event at the
world championships since Perth in 1998.


Spain repeated their bronze medal performance at the 2005
Montreal world championships.


"This competition is new for us, as for some of our members (it
is the) first time to participate at the world swimming
championship. We can do better next time," team member Alba
Cabello Rodilla said.


China finished fourth with 96.000 and team member Liu Ou was
encouraged by the performance ahead of next year's Beijing
Olympics.


"We're getting closer and closer in every competition," Liu said.


"I'm sure China will be in the top three in this event in two
years. We will surprise the world at the 2008 Olympic Games."

