

Some 500 students from Egypt's opposition Muslim Brotherhood
marched through Cairo University to the beat of a drum on
Wednesday in a mock funeral protesting at parliament's passage of
controversial constitutional amendments.


"The amendments equal the death of Egypt -- that's why we reject
them," said the slogan written across the black coffin borne at
the head of the long procession as it wound its way through the
campus.


"The amendments mean unemployment, corruption, and hereditary
succession," said another banner. Curious students at Egypt's
premier university watched the demonstration with interest,
snapping pictures with their mobile phones.


All along the route, Brotherhood activists approached knots of
students to explain their opposition to the amendments and urge
them to boycott Monday's popular referendum on the amendments.


The Brotherhood wants the referendum boycotted because it says
the outcome will be fraudlent.


The activists echoed the criticisms of the political opposition,
saying the amendments gave extraordinary powers to the security
forces, opened the way for rigging elections, and stripped away
protections from lower-income Egyptians.


They also said the amendments were unIslamic because they
separated religion from government by banning the formation of
faith-based political parties.


"I didn't really know what the amendments were all about," said
one student after a long conversation with a Brotherhood
activist. "I'm not sure about my position yet. I need to find out
more."


Although demonstrations are increasingly difficult to stage in
Egypt, university campuses are considered out of bounds to the
nation's zealous security forces.

