

Europe's main stock markets rose on Wednesday, with focus on
British equities ahead of Britain's annual budget statement and
after a surprise set of minutes from the Bank of England, dealers
said.


Investors were also awaiting an interest rate call from the US
Federal Reserve that was forecast to freeze US borrowing costs at
5.25 percent.


In early afternoon trade, London's FTSE 100 index of leading
companies rose 0.46 percent to 6,248.80 points, Frankfurt's DAX
30 climbed 0.14 percent to 6,709.23 points and in Paris the CAC
40 won 0.05 percent to 5,506.06.


The DJ Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone blue chip shares increased
0.14 percent to 4,085.24 points.


The euro stood at 1.3297 dollars.


London's FTSE 100 won a boost after minutes from the Bank of
England's rate- setting meet earlier this month revealed that
policymakers voted 8-1 to keep British borrowing costs steady at
5.25 percent, the same level as US interest rates.


Analysts said the findings in the meeting's minutes indicated
that the Bank of England would not move to hike interest rates as
early as April.


Investors in Britain were also gearing up for finance minister
Gordon Brown's annual budget, likely the last before his expected
succession to prime minister in a few months' time as Tony Blair
prepares to step down.


The Daily Telegraph reported Wednesday that Brown would unveil a
high-profile corporation tax cut in his 2007-2008 budget, which
was also expected to be environmentally friendly.


The airline sector may be hit by higher taxes as Brown looks to
cut carbon emissions. But on Wednesday, British Airways saw its
share price jump 2.98 percent to 518 pence, boosted by re-hashed
talk of a possible takeover bid by Emirates and consolidation
elsewhere within the airline sector, dealers said.


With Japanese markets shut Wednesday for a public holiday in
Japan, investors in Europe took their lead from Wall Street
overnight.


US shares closed higher Tuesday as a government report revealed
an unexpected rebound in housing starts and as Federal Reserve
policymakers began meeting in Washington to debate interest
rates.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed up 0.51 percent at
12,288.10 points and the tech-heavy Nasdaq composite finished up
0.58 percent at 2,408.21 points. The broad-market Standard Poor's
500 gained 0.63 percent to end at 1,410.94.

