

Senior EU and UN officials met with Palestinian finance minister
Salam Fayyad on Wednesday in a new sign of a gradual shift in
policy towards the new unity government.


The European Union Middle East envoy, Marc Otte and his united
Nations counterpart, Alvaro de Soto, met separately in the West
Bank town of Ramallah with Fayyad, an independent in the
government uniting the moderate Fatah and the Islamist Hamas
movements.


On Tuesday, Otte held talks with foreign minister Ziad Abu Amr,
also an independent, and US Consul General in Jerusalem Jacob
Walles met Fayyad.


This flury in meetings with foreign diplomats contrasts with the
nearly year- long diplomatic and economic boycott of the former
Hamas-led government.


But the EU and the UN -- which along with Russia and the United
States form the Middle East peace Quartet -- said they would not
recognise the cabinet and lift a financial embargo until it
recognises Israel, renounces violence and respects past peace
agreements.


But the Americans and Europeans have left the door open to
lifting the embargo, saying it would depend on the actions of the
new government.


German Chancellor Angela Merkel announced Wednesday she will
visit the Middle East at the end of the month to form an
impression of the new Palestinian government.


Swedish Foreign Minister Carl Bildt was also planning to meet
independent members of the new government during a trip to the
Palestinian territories this weekend.


Israel has nevertheless decided to continue its boycott of the
Palestinian government. On Wednesday, it cancelled a meeting with
Norway's deputy foreign minister Raymand Johansen after he met
Palestinian prime minister Ismail Haniya of Hamas.

