

Britain's armed forces abroad, including those in Iraq and
Afghanistan, are to get an extra 400 million pounds (589 million
euros, 783 million dollars), finance minister Gordon Brown said
Wednesday.


"We owe a huge debt of gratitude to our armed forces," he told
lawmakers as he delivered his annual budget to parliament. The
extra cash will be available for the next financial year from
April 1, 2007 to March 31, 2008.


"And to support those who serve us with courage and distinction
in Afghanistan, Iraq and in other demanding international
commitments, I am allocating the secretary for defence an
additional 400 million pounds."


Prime Minister Tony Blair's government has been stung by claims
that Britain's armed forces are overstretched due to commitments
overseas.


There are currently 7,100 troops in Iraq and 5,600 in
Afghanistan.


Last month, opposition politicians suggested that a reduction of
1,600 troops from Iraq within months was announced because it was
the only way for the army to reinforce its numbers in
Afghanistan, where it is sending 1,000 extra.


"It is clear now that our army is so over-stretched we can't
carry two conflicts, " Liam Fox, defence spokesman for the
Conservative Party, said.


During the budget debate, the leader of the smaller opposition
Liberal Democrat party, Sir Menzies Campbell, told lawmakers that
the war in Iraq had already cost more than five billion pounds.


Brown is likely to take over as prime minister from Blair when he
steps down at some point before September.

