

Ukraine's parliament Wednesday approved Arseniy Yatsenyuk, a 32
-year-old economist close to pro-Western President Viktor
Yushchenko, as the country's new foreign minister.


Despite being dominated by pro-Russian parties, parliament was
almost unanimous in its support for his appointment, with 426 of
the 432 deputies present voting in favour.


The foreign minister's post had been vacant since the end of
January, when the country's former chief diplomat, the Western-
oriented Borys Tarasyuk, resigned over conflicts with the pro-
Russian parliament.


Yatsenyuk told parliament that Ukraine's pro-European policies
would remain unchanged, but made no comment on the country's
possible NATO membership, something backed by Yushchenko.


"European integration is Ukraine's principal and unchanging
course," he said.


"But Europe is not a goal in and of itself. European values --
the reforms that we must accomplish on our thorny road toward
Europe -- are our objective," he said.


Asked by deputies about his views on NATO, Yatsenyuk replied that
the foreign minister should "not have an opinion regarding the
foreign policy which is elaborated by the Ukrainian president in
constructive cooperation with parliament."


The minister of economy under Yushchenko between September 2005
and August 2006, Yatsenyuk is a fluent English speaker and had
been deputy head of the presidential administration since
September 2006. He previously worked at Ukraine's central bank.


The parliament earlier twice rejected Yushchenko's first choice
for foreign minister, Volodymyr Ohryzko, who was seen as too pro-
Western.


Yushchenko came to power on a wave of public support after the
2004 "orange revolution," a mass protest against a rigged
presidential election that was initially declared in favour of
the pro-Russian prime minister, Viktor Yanukovych.


Support for Yushchenko has since fallen sharply and Yanukovych
returned as prime minister after parliamentary elections last
year.

