

German coach Joachim Loew said on Wednesday his side expect to
poach a win from their arch-rivals the Czech Republic when they
travel to Prague for Saturday's Euro 2008 crucial qualifier.


Germany and the Czech Republic are level on ten points each after
four games with the Germans only leading on goal difference, but
despite several injury concerns, Loew insists his side can win
away.


Stuttgart striker Mario Gomez - the Bundesliga's joint top-scorer
- is already out with a knee injury, while key players Bastian
Schweinsteiger (bruised foot), Torsten Frings (thigh) and
Christoph Metzelder (eye) sat out training on Tuesday with minor
knocks, but are expected to be fit.


And Loew - who has had six wins and a draw since taking over from
predecessor Jurgen Klinsman after the 2006 World Cup - is
confident of being able to name a near full-strength side,
despite the minor knocks.


"Confidence is high in the squad, we want to remain top of Group
D on Saturday night," said Loew, "and I am confident we'll
succeed. All our thoughts are on beating the Czech Republic."


Gomez's injury means 21-year-old Bayern Munich striker Lukas
Podolski, who has scored 22 goals in 37 internationals, will
partner Schalke 04's Kevin Kuranyi up front.


"Of course we have some injuries, but these are, nevertheless,
the best players Germany has here," said Podolski. "We respect
the Czechs, but we go to Prague to win."


Podolski's strike partner Kuranyi says the Czech Republic are the
biggest threat so far on the road to next year's European
Championships and will be a huge test for the Germans away from
home.


"The Czechs will be our toughest opponents and our main rivals to
qualifying, so we we will have our work cut out in Prague," he
said.

