

The dollar rose against the euro on Wednesday ahead of an
interest rate call from the US Federal Reserve that was forecast
to freeze US borrowing costs at 5.25 percent, analysts said.


The euro eased to 1.3302 dollars in early European trade, from
1.3316 dollars late in New York on Tuesday.


The dollar firmed to 117.69 yen in European trade, from 117.26
yen late on Tuesday.


Financial markets in Japan were closed for a public holiday on
Wednesday, leaving the foreign exchange market somewhat subdued,
analysts said.


The Fed was expected to keep its short-term interest rate at 5.25
percent when the two-day meeting in Washington ends later
Wednesday.


But the market will be reading closely the US central bank's
statement for clues on the future direction of monetary policy,
dealers said.


"A no-change rate outcome is basically a done deal and as usual,
it will be all eyes on the statement," said Audrey Childe-
Freeman, economist at the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in
London.


The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC), headed by Ben Bernanke,
began its meeting Tuesday.


"As with recent meetings, markets will focus on the signals the
FOMC gives about future policy," added ABN Amro currency analyst
Greg Anderson.


"However, we suspect the FOMC will not want to pre-commit to
either a future easing path or a future tightening path,
preferring to leave all doors open with a terse and bland
statement."


The rate has been unchanged since the FOMC halted a string of
increases last August but the panel has warned after each meeting
to date that it could resume rate hikes if inflation kicks up.


The European Central Bank had last week hiked eurozone borrowing
costs by a quarter-point to a five-and-a-year high of 3.75
percent, while on Tuesday the Bank of Japan left its benchmark
interest rate on hold at 0.50 percent.


Elsewhere, sterling fell against the dollar after minutes from
the Bank of England's latest policy meeting showed that rate-
setters had voted 8-1 in favour of keeping British borrowing
costs at 5.25 percent in March.


The euro was changing hands at 1.3302 dollars, against 1.3316
dollars on Tuesday, 156.54 yen (156.17), 0.6795 pounds (0.6789)
and 1.6146 Swiss francs (1.6138).


The dollar stood at 117.69 yen (117.26) and 1.2138 Swiss francs
(1.2118).


The pound was being traded at 1.9583 dollars (1.9612).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold rose to 660.40
dollars per ounce, from 659 dollars late on Tuesday.

