

The European Commission sought a court order Wednesday to halt
the construction of a road in an ecologically fragile part of
northeast Poland, upping the ante in a standoff with Warsaw.


"It is with regret that the Commission is bringing this case to
the European Court of Justice," EU Environment Commissioner
Stavros Dimas said.


"But this course of action is necessary if these precious natural
sites of European significance are to be protected from
irreparable damage."


The European Union's executive arm said that although it
supported improvements to the country's road network, it could
not accept the "unjustified" damage that would be caused by the
construction of bypasses.


The Commission launched legal action in December against Warsaw,
arguing that the planned stretch of highway -- to ease traffic on
the nearby town of Augustow -- would plough through one of the
region's best-preserved forests.


But in a growing showdown with Brussels, Warsaw ignored warnings
not to build the bypasses and told contractors to go ahead with
the work last month.


The project will see a 17.1-kilometre (10.6-mile) bypass built
near Augustow cutting through the Rospuda river valley, which the
Commission said would threaten "a unique wetland system
considered to be of exceptional European value by scientists."


It also foresees the construction of a second 5.2-kilometre
bypass near the northeastern town of Wasilkow.


With trees already being cut down to make way for the bypass, the
Commission said that Warsaw had not properly assessed the likely
damage to a protected area.

