

A former police woman was arrested Wednesday for taking bribes
from the main suspects in the serial murders of 21 people, mostly
children, investigators said.


The murders, the most macabre in India in decades, were revealed
in late December when police recovered skulls, bones and body
parts from sewage drains near a house in Noida, a wealthy
satellite city of the Indian capital.


The key suspects -- businessman Moninder Singh Pandher and his
servant Surinder Koli -- are being held in solitary confinement
in a maximum-security New Delhi prison to protect them from
possible attacks by fellow inmates.


The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which is probing the
murders, said it had found that former sub-inspector Simranjit
Kaur had taken gifts from Pandher in exchange for withholding
evidence from investigators against them.


"She took gifts and gratification for herself and other persons
from accused Moninder Singh Pandher," the CBI said in a statement
that announced the arrest.


"(She) framed incorrect records with intent to save accused
Moninder Singh Pandher and his servant Surender Koli from legal
proceedings and punishment in the case," the statement said.


Kaur was one of six police officials sacked for negligence in the
case in January, prompting the CBI to takeover the investigation.


In January, police said Koli had confessed to having abducted
children from a slum area, then killing them in his employer's
home and disposing of the remains in drains.


The duo face 21 counts of abduction, rape and murder.


The CBI has previously said Koli had admitted to rape,
cannibalism and necrophilia during lie detector tests. But as the
confessions took place under the influence of "truth serum"
drugs, they were inadmissible as evidence in court.


Victims' relatives say that as many as 40 children have
disappeared in the area since 2004.

