

A new contingent of Polish troops headed for Afghanistan on
Wednesday to help bolster NATO forces struggling to cope with a
resurgent Taliban.


A ceremony was held to mark the departure of about 100 soldiers
from a military base here. They will be part of a group of nearly
1,200 Polish troops set to be operational in Afghanistan by the
end of May.


About 300 soldiers from Poland have already been deployed to
prepare the arrival of the force over the coming weeks.


"By taking part in this mission, we are making an investment in
our future. We are showing that we are a strong, well-prepared,
reliable partner," Defence Minister Aleksander Szczyglo said in a
speech to the troops.


"We are investing in NATO, one of the pillars of Poland's
security."


The increase is part of moves to bolster the NATO-led
International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) in Afghanistan,
which has been expanded from 9,000 to 36,000.


Close to 190 Polish military personnel were previously serving in
Afghanistan before President Lech Kaczynski approved the new
force last November.


The existing Polish contingent includes special forces units
operating in the conflict-ravaged southern Kandahar province. The
new troops will mainly be charged with security operations in the
southeastern Paktika and Ghazni provinces.


The extremist religious Taliban movement launched an insurgency
months after being removed from government in 2001 in a US-led
invasion.


The insurgency was at its deadliest last year with more than
4,000 people killed, most of them rebels.

