

Somalia's interim government has completed its move from the
south central town of Baidoa to Mogadishu, the Somali ambassador
to Kenya said Wednesday, as violence shook the city.


The move, voted March 12 by parliament and begun a day later,
marks the first time the government, created in 2004, is located
in the volatile Somali capital.


"The prime minister (Ali Mohamed Gedi) and his cabinet ministers
have fully relocated to Mogadishu as of yesterday March 20,"
ambassador Mohamed Ali Nur told a news conference.


Nur said that parliament, also based in Baidoa, would also soon
be transferred to the capital, after a Somali reconciliation
conference planned to start on April 16 and last for two months.


Gedi was consulting with powerful elders from the Hawiye clan,
that has revolted against the government, in a bid to woo them
into the peace meeting, he added.


Nur said deadly clashes in Mogadishu Wednesday were sparked by a
crackdown on insurgents blamed for a string of guerrilla-style
attacks that have further debilitated the seaside city.


Somalia's envoy to Kenya said authorities would expand their
security operations and disarm civilians, after a morning of
vicious fighting in which at least 14 people died.


"Early this morning, the Somali forces started a military
operation in Mogadishu aimed at wiping out those militiamen,"
Somali ambassador to Kenya Mohamed Ali Nur told a news
conference.


"We believe that these forces are behind the recent mortar
attacks," he added.


Residents said the heavy fighting, which killed six uniformed
soldiers and eight civilians, broke out after insurgents opened
fire on former defence ministry headquarters where Ethiopian
troops, backing the Somali government, are based.


The scale of Somalia's violence has defied numerous
internationally-backed peace-making initiatives since the desert
country plunged into lawlessness with the 1991 ouster of dictator
Mohamed Siad Barre.

