

Indian police on Wednesday arrested a drunken Mexican passenger
on a New Delhi- bound flight from Bangkok after he allegedly
threatened to blow up the plane, officials said.


State-run airline Indian's flight with 88 people aboard made an
emergency landing in this eastern Indian city after passengers
raised the alarm, airline spokesman Ashok Sharma said.


"The Mexican passenger, F. Edwardo, 47, is still under the
influence of alcohol. He is lying at the immigration department
of the airport," police Superintendent Pravin Kumar told AFP.


The plane, carrying 82 passengers and six crew, made an emergency
landing at Dum Dum International Airport in Kolkata, capital of
West Bengal state, and resumed its journey after being grounded
for nearly two hours.


The drama aboard the Airbus plane ended after police stormed the
aircraft and overpowered the drunk and took him into custody,
officials said.


The man will be produced before a court Thursday, Kumar said.


He had allegedly told the passenger sitting next to him that "he
was carrying bomb which he could trigger if needed," another
Indian airline spokesman, Pulak Mukherjee, said.


"He was very, very drunk. He was so drunk he couldn't stand on
his feet," Mukherjee said.


Bomb disposal units and crack army commandos rushed to the
airport after the pilot informed the air traffic control tower
that the plane needed to make an emergency landing.


The plane was taken to the isolation bay of the airport before
the all-clear was given.


"No explosives have been found on his person, but the man had
been saying he had explosives on board the flight so naturally
that the passengers have been offloaded," Mukherjee said.


"Bomb and hijack drills were activated the moment we were
alerted," an official at India's Bureau of Civil Aviation
Security said, confirming that the man's luggage had also been
checked and no explosives found.

