

Indian police arrested Wednesday a drunken passenger on a New
Delhi-bound flight from Bangkok after he threatened to blow up
the plane, officials said.


State-run airline Indian's flight with 88 people aboard made an
emergency landing in this eastern Indian city after passengers
raised the alarm, said airline spokesman Ashok Sharma.


The arrested passenger was a Mexican citizen who was extremely
drunk, airline officials said.


The plane, carrying 82 passengers and six crew, made an emergency
landing at Dum Dum International Airport in Kolkata, capital of
West Bengal state.


The drama aboard the Airbus flight ended after police stormed the
aircraft and overpowered the drunk, believed to be in his mid-
30s, and took him into custody, officials said.


The man told the passenger sitting next to him that "he was
carrying bomb which he could trigger if needed," another Indian
airline spokesman, Pulak Mukherjee, said.


"He was very, very drunk. He was so drunk he couldn't stand on
his feet," Mukherjee said.


The plane was taken to the isolation bay of the airport where
bomb disposal experts searched it. They also searched the luggage
of the passenger.


No explosives were found and airline officials said the plane
would take off later in the day for the Indian capital.


Bomb disposal units and army commandos rushed to the airport
after the pilot informed the air traffic control tower that the
plane needed to make an emergency landing.


"No explosives have been found on his person, but the man had
been saying he had explosives on board the flight so naturally
the passengers have been offloaded," Mukherjee said.


"The man is being questioned by our security staff," Mukherjee
said.


Police did not disclose the identity of the arrested man.


"Bomb and hijack drills were activated the moment we were
alerted," an official at the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security
said.

