

London's longest-serving taxi driver has retired, after 70 years
of ferrying passengers around the British capital, the body that
oversees the city's public transport said on Wednesday.


Alfred Collins, 92, picked up his first fare in 1937 and plied
the streets until two years ago, keeping his black cab licence
until last month when he finally decided he was not going to get
back behind the wheel.


As well as ordinary folk, he has also had former British prime
minister Margaret Thatcher and the actress Joan Collins in the
back of his cab.


"It has been a great privilege to serve the people of London,"
Collins said after receiving a special honour for long service
from Transport for London (TfL) and the Public Carriage Office
(PCO), which regulates licensed cabs.


"It really does not seem that nearly 70 years has passed by. I
have had the pleasure of meeting people from all walks of life,
politicians, celebrities and the great British public.


"Life is all about communication and I have enjoyed sharing my
vast experience of life as well as learning a lot with some of my
passengers.


"I will treasure these memories for the rest of my life," added
the widower, who lists current affairs and computing as among his
hobbies.


More than 2,000 private hire and black cab operators and about
40,000 drivers are currently licenced with the PCO.


All drivers are required to sit "The Knowledge", which tests
their ability to remember in detail the roads and landmarks
within a six-mile (9.6-kilometre) radius of Charing Cross in
central London.


Applicants typically take about 36 months to learn the 320 routes
and are often seen practising on scooters.


Would-be drivers have to be at least 21 but there is no upper age
limit.


Driving licences in Britain are normally valid until the age of
70 but older drivers have to renew their permits every three
years, subject to medical conditions.

