

British finance minister Gordon Brown  announced on Wednesday
that he would cut the basic rate of income tax in Britain from 22
percent to 20 percent in April 2008.


Brown, outlining what is widely seen as his final budget before
becoming prime minister later this year, added that it was "the
lowest basic rate for 75 years" in Britain.


Rounding off his near hour-long budget speech, the chancellor of
the exchequer told parliament: "We are able to hold to our pledge
not to raise the basic rate of income tax.


"Indeed to reward work, to ensure working families are better off
and to make the tax system fairer, I will from next April cut the
basic rate of income tax from 22 pence to 20 pence (in the
pound)."


Brown added that the lower rate of 10 percent would be scrapped,
while the point at which people started paying 40 percent income
tax -- the top rate -- would rise to 43,000 pounds from April
2009.


Brown had originally planned to set the limit at 38,000 pounds.


"Having put in place more focused ways of incentivising work and
directly supporting children and pensioners at a cost of 3.0
billion pounds a year (4.4 billion euros, 5.88 billion dollars),
I can now return income tax to just two rates by removing the 10
pence band on non-savings income," chancellor Brown said.


"I can also announce that the point at which people start paying
top rate income tax will, from April 2009, not be annual income
of 38,000 pounds but 43,000 pounds."


Prime Minister Tony Blair has said he will step down by September
and many commentators predict Brown will replace him in June or
July.

