

Rescuers in northern China have found the bodies of 13 miners and
are searching for eight more missing following a gas explosion at
a coal mine that was operating illegally, state media reported
Wednesday.


The accident occurred on Sunday in Shanxi province but local
officials only reported the mishap on Tuesday, saying that 21
miners were "trapped" in the mine shaft, the State Administration
for Work Safety said earlier.


A government-ordered rescue operation only began on Tuesday,
Xinhua news agency reported.


Mine operators had allegedly tried to cover up the incident, it
added.


"The responsible people have already been taken into police
custody," the report said.


"The mine had not followed official procedures and was illegally
producing coal and expanding the area of extraction."


After news of the mine accident was reported, police sealed the
mine and begin interrogating mine bosses and a survivor of the
blast, it said.


Rescuers found the main shaft blocked but after removing the
obstacles found that the elevator and elevator cable had been
destroyed, further hampering efforts to locate the missing, it
said.


China's mines are the most dangerous in the world, with 4,746
miners dying in 2,845 accidents last year, according to official
figures.


Independent labour groups put the death toll at as many as 20,000
miners annually, as mine operators often cover up accidents to
avoid costly shutdowns and fines.


In related news, police in northeastern China's Liaoning province
have arrested the head of the Dongfang coal mine where six miners
died Sunday after a fire in the shaft, Xinhua said.


The mine boss was arrested for allegedly covering up the
accident, it said.

