

A Hindu judge set to be appointed as Pakistan's new acting chief
justice flew home from holiday Wednesday and stepped straight
into a crisis over the suspension of the country's top judge.


Justice Rana Bhagwandas arrived in the southern port city of
Karachi from the Indian capital, New Delhi, and will be sworn in
after his return to Islamabad, Law Minister Wasi Zafar told AFP.


The appointment of Bhagwandas -- who will be the first Hindu to
head the judiciary in this Islamic republic -- is one of the
demands lawyers have been agitating for since the suspension of
chief justice Iftikhar Mohammad Chaudhry.


"When the presidential order is issued, the oath-taking will be
held after that," the 64-year-old Bhagwandas told private Geo
television outside his house in Karachi.


"Everything will be in accordance with the constitution and law.
There will be no comments on the current situation.


"Whatever happens will be in black and white and nothing will be
verbal."


Government sources hope his appointment will help defuse the row
that erupted after President Pervez Musharraf removed Chaudhry on
March 9, on charges including that the judge strong-armed
promotions for his own son.


Bhagwandas is due to replace the current acting chief justice,
Javed Iqbal, who has been heading the Supreme Judicial Council, a
panel of five senior judges hearing the allegations against
Chaudhry.


Bhagwandas was the most senior Supreme Court judge after
Chaudhry, but has been on vacation in India for the past few
weeks.


The council's next hearing had been due on Wednesday, but was
postponed late Tuesday when officials decided that Bhagwandas
should be sworn in before its next sitting.


Lawyers and Islamists held fresh nationwide protests on Wednesday
against the suspension of Chaudhry as a full list of the charges
against him was revealed for the first time.

