

German Chancellor Angela Merkel will visit the Middle East at the
end of the month to form an impression of the new Palestinian
unity government, her spokesman said on Wednesday.


"The chancellor wants to get a first impression of the work of
the Palestinian government formed two weeks ago and in particular
as to whether it will fulfil the conditions set by the Quartet,"
Ulrich Wilhelm told reporters.


The Quartet on the Middle East -- the European Union, the United
States, Russia and the United Nations -- want the Palestinians to
renounce violence, recognise Israel and respect existing Middle
East peace deals.


Merkel had a telephone conversation with Palestinian president
Mahmud Abbas on Tuesday in which he vowed to press the government
to meet those demands, Wilhelm said.


"President Abbas said he would insist that the unity government
fulfil the criteria set by the Quartet."


Merkel's three-day visit to the region will start on March 31 and
take to her to Lebanon, Israel, the Palestinian territories and
Jordan, Wilhelm said.


She will hold talks with Abbas, Lebanese Prime Minister Fuad
Siniora, Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert and Jordan's King
Abdullah II.


"The visit comes at an important moment, just after the meeting
of the Arab League in Riyadh on March 28 to 29," Wilhelm said.


The EU, which is currently led by Germany, agreed with Washington
this week to withhold recognition of the unity government
grouping Western-backed moderates and Islamic radicals.


The bloc has however left the door open to future official ties
provided the radical Islamist movement Hamas, which dominates the
new administration, respects the Quartet's demands.

