

Israel said on Wednesday it had cancelled a meeting with Norway's
deputy foreign minister Raymand Johansen after he met Palestinian
prime minister Ismail Haniya of Hamas.


"Mr Johansen was to be received Tuesday by the director general
of foreign affairs Aharon Abramovitch but the meeting was
cancelled for technical reasons," an Israeli official told AFP.


"It is, however, obvious that this decision is connected to Mr
Johansen's meeting with Ismail Haniya in Gaza on Monday."


Haniya heads the Palestinian unity government that unites the
hardline Islamist movement Hamas, regarded as a terror group by
Israel and the West, with president Mahmud Abbas's Fatah party.


The Norwegian official also met new Palestinian foreign minister
Ziad Abu Amr during his trip.


Norway was the first European country to normalise ties with the
new cabinet, defying Israel's calls for the international
community to stand fast by its year-long boycott of the
Palestinian Authority.


Israel insists the new government has failed to recognise Jewish
state, renounce violence or abide by past peace deals, three
conditions laid down by the international community for
acceptance and resuming aid to the cash strapped government.


Israel said last year it would boycott any foreign official who
met Hamas officials and that policy remains in effect, the
Israeli official added.


On Tuesday, the US consul general in Jerusalem Jacob Walles met
independent Palestinian finance minister Salam Fayyad in
Ramallah.


"These talks did not surprise us because Mr Fayyad is from the
World Bank and a close acquaintance of President George W. Bush,"
the Israeli official said.

