

Bangladesh's interim government should lift emergency rule as
soon as possible, Commonwealth chief Don McKinnon said here
Wednesday during a visit.


Parliamentary elections scheduled for January 22 were cancelled
amid a row over alleged vote-rigging and there seems little
progress on drawing up a new register of voters.


"The current state of emergency and suppression of party
activity... should be lifted without unnecessary delay and
certainly not (be) tied to completion of the voter registration
process," McKinnon told reporters.


At the same time McKinnon, who arrived Tuesday on a three-day
trip, said it was clear the interim government "has popular
support."


The government "says it is taking this once-in-a-generation
opportunity to redesign and rebuild your democratic
institutions," McKinnon said.


He said he was visiting Dhaka "to see how the Commonwealth can
assist" the administration in carrying out the "immense task."


Reforms to new candidate eligibility rules are expected to be
completed by July, election commissioner Sakhawat Hossain said
last week


But the commissionioner said the body still has not decided when
it would start drawing up a new voters' list, which the main
opposition parties say are crucial to holding credible elections.


The last list, numbering 93 million voters, was rejected by the
opposition Awami League which said it contained 14 million false
names.


It accused the Bangladesh Nationalist Party-led government of
trying to rig the list to ensure re-election.


Experts say the commission needs between six months and a year to
compile a flawless register.


The state of emergency was imposed on January 11 when the
president called off the elections following months of turmoil
and street protests.

