

At least 25 people have been killed and dozens injured in clashes
in southeast Nepal between Maoists and activists from an ethnic
minority group, officials said Wednesday.


"Twenty-five people including five women have died in clashes
between supporters of the Mahadhesi Janadhikar Forum (Mahadhesi
People's Rights Forum) and the Maoist Mahadhesi wing at two
different places in Rautahat district," local police
Superintendent Ram Kumar Khanal told AFP.


Police initially confirmed 13 deaths but late Wedensday evening
12 more bodies were recovered in the neighbouring village of
Hajbaniya.


The clashes were some of the worst violence seen between the
former rebels and the Mahadeshi community.


Shots were fired by both groups during the clash, but most of the
victims were beaten to death with bamboo poles, the police
officer said.


"The two sides were involved in a hit-and-run chase in the town,"
he said.


Around 30 others were injured of whom 12 were in a critical
condition and have been sent to hospitals in neighbouring
district for treatment, Khanal said.


"The clashes started after disputes between the two sides over
organising a programme at the same venue," he said.


"Large numbers of police have been mobilised in the town and
security has been kept on high alert," he said.


The violence occurred in Gaur, around 300 kilometres (186 miles)
southeast of Kathmandu, and a curfew has been imposed by local
authorities, home ministry spokesman Baman Prasad Neupane said.


Ethnic Mahadeshis from the lowland Terai region bordering India
have been protesting for greater representation in national
politics by holding a series of strikes, blockades and violent
demonstrations in their region.


The unrest has left close to 40 people dead since January.

