

South Korea's birthrate has risen for the first time since 2000,
a report said Monday, offering a glimmer of hope that efforts to
counter the nation's ageing society are working.


Some 452,000 children were born last year, up 3.3 percent from
2005, the National Statistical Office said.


The fertility rate, detailing the average number of children a
woman aged 15-49 gives birth to during her lifetime, also rose to
1.13 last year from an all-time low of 1.08 in 2005 -- the
world's lowest.


"The growth in the number of births is partly attributable to an
increase in first marriages among South Korean people," the
office said in the report quoted by Yonhap news agency. "The
government's birthrate-boosting measures announced recently also
contributed."


After years of promoting family planning in the crowded nation,
the government has become increasingly alarmed at the prospect of
an ageing society -- with a huge pensions bill and too few
workers to sustain economic growth.


It has proposed financial incentives for those who give birth and
to working mothers. In February it also said it would push to
extend the retirement age by about five years and reform the
education system to raise the average job entry age by two years
from the current 25.


The statistical office predicts that South Korea's population
will peak at 49.34 million in 2018, and decline from 2020.


Its report showed women are starting families later in life. On
average, they gave birth at age 30 and four months last year, up
by two months from 2005.

