

As Hong Kong prepares to mark a decade since the July 1, 1997
handover of sovereignty from Britain to China, here are some key
dates from history.


- September 24, 1982: Britain and China announce the future of
Hong Kong will be debated. British Prime Minister Margaret
Thatcher's televised stumble on the steps of the Great Hall of
the People in Beijing is interpreted as a bad omen.


- December 19, 1984: The Sino-British Joint Declaration is signed
in Beijing by Thatcher and Chinese Premier Zhao Ziyang to hand
over Hong Kong at midnight on June 30, 1997.


- June 4, 1989: Massacre of pro-democracy students in Tiananmen
Square by Chinese military outrages Hong Kong and a million
people march in protest.


- April 4, 1990: Basic Law mini-constitution codifying Hong
Kong's future existence as a Special Administrative Region within
China is promulgated.


- July 9, 1992: British politician Christopher Patten assumes the
final governorship and immediately institutes a democratic reform
programme.


- June 30, 1997: Hong Kong is handed over to China in a ceremony
attended by Chinese President Jiang Zemin and Britain's Prince
Charles. Tung Chee-hwa is anointed first Chief Executive by an
electoral committee whose members are selected, effectively, for
their support of Beijing.


- October 1997: Asian financial crisis grips Hong Kong --
interbank rate shoots up 280 percent to prevent a drain of funds
and the Hang Seng Index slumps 38 percent.


- July 2, 1998: Red faces as much-hyped new airport opens and is
immediately beset by computer glitches.


- November, 2002: Pneumonia-like virus later named Severe Acute
Respiratory Syndrome kills woman in south China. It goes on to
kill 299 people in Hong Kong and 1,800 worldwide and devastates
Asian economies.


- July 1, 2003: Unprecedented half a million people march against
unpopular Article 23 anti-subversion bill.


- January 1, 2004: 100,000 march through city calling for more
democracy, bringing to a head a simmering row over Basic Law's
diffidence on electoral reform. China intervenes in April by
ruling out a swift change. The move is condemned and resulting
crisis opens political rift.


- March 10, 2005: Scandal and gaffe-plagued chief executive Tung
resigns early into his second term, citing ill-health. He is
temporarily replaced by deputy leader Donald Tsang, who wins a
mandate to lead in a June gathering of the election committee,
although Beijing decrees that he must only serve the remaining
two years of Tung's term.


- March 25, 2007: Tsang wins second term as chief executive by
the election committee in a race that is contested for the first
time by a democrat, Civic Party lawmaker Alan Leong.

