

More than 100 policemen have been killed in Taliban-related
unrest in Afghanistan in the past two months, with the rebels
stepping up attacks across the country, the interior ministry
said Monday.


Most of the killings were in southern and eastern Afghanistan
where Taliban rebels are most active despite internationally
aided efforts to hunt them down, ministry spokesman Zemarai
Bashary said.


"Police have had some good achievements but unfortunately they
suffered lots of casualties too. In the past two months, 102
policemen have been martyred while providing security for their
people," he told reporters.


He said attacks, especially suicide and roadside bombings, had
increased in the first two months of the Afghan year, which
starts March 21.


The unrest has grown this year after a winter lull. Around 150
civilians have also been killed in the violence, most of them in
militant attacks but several in military action against
insurgents, according to an AFP toll.


The Taliban were toppled in a US-led military push in late 2001
after the fundmentalist group refused to hand over Osama bin
Laden, the man the United States says was behind the September
11, 2001 attacks on US cities.


The extremist group is now waging a guerrilla-style campaign to
topple the US- backed government of Afghan President Hamid Karzai
and drive out tens of thousands of international forces based
here to help the local government.

