

Scotland's John Higgins was on the cusp of his second world title
on Monday after dominating England's Mark Selby 12-4 in Sunday's
first day's play in their final.


That left surprise packet Selby needing to produce the greatest
comeback in any world championship final to turn the tables.


History is against the 23-year-old from Leicester staging such a
revival as the biggest overnight deficit overturned to lift the
title is 10-6 by Mark Williams (2000) and Sean Murphy (2005) -
both at the expense of Matthew Stevens.


The last time a player was 12-4 down going into the second day
was Jimmy White in 1993 when he eventually lost 18-5 to Stephen
Hendry.


That match finished with a session to spare and there is a danger
of the same happening in 2007 with Selby having to win three of
the eight frames on Monday afternoon to avoid that embarrassing
scenario.


Higgins moved into top gear after a nervy start to the best-
of-35-frame showdown and won seven frames in a row to take total
command.


Selby led 3-2 at one stage. but from that point Higgins conjured
up some magical snooker to move almost out of sight of his
opponent.


The confidence seemed to drain out of Selby who was kept off the
table for lengthy periods and also never had the rub of the green
when among the balls.


Former world champion Dennis Taylor paid tribute to Higgins and
said: "He is one of the greatest break-builders the game has ever
seen.


"Stephen Hendry was out on his own in that department with Ronnie
O'Sullivan not far behind but John Higgins is also up there as
one of the best."


Higgins held a 5-3 advantage after the opening session in which
Selby's 116 was his 11th century of the tournament - more than
anyone else.


But it was Higgins who was on song when play resumed and a 100 in
frame 11 and 106 in frame 16 took his only personal ton tally to
10 and the overall number to 66.


It completed a special 24 hours for Higgins who has been assured
of the number one spot in the world rankings for the 2007-2008
campaign.


There is also every chance that the record number of centuries in
the world tournament - 68 in 2002 - could be beaten.

