

South Korea's Mi Hyun Kim shook off a bogey at the final hole of
regulation to edge American Juli Inkster in a playoff for the 1.4
million-dollar LPGA SemGroup Championship on Sunday.


With Inkster in the clubhouse at 3-under-par 210 after a 2-under
69, Kim birdied the 16th to get to 4-under and parred 17 to go to
the final tee with a one-shot lead.


However, she opened the door to Inkster with a bogey at 18 that
gave her a 71 for 210.


"It was a surprise to me, too," said Kim, who collected the
210,000-dollar first prize. "That was a makeable putt, you know.
But my body was shaking and I was so nervous at the time."


Inkster, a Hall of Famer, had birdied 18 to cap her round. But
she could manage only a bogey on her return to the par-4
finishing hole to start the playoff, and Kim's par was enough for
her eighth career LPGA Tour title.


"I've been putting good. I just felt like if I could get it
within my reach, I could make it but it didn't happen," Inkster
said.


Kim's last tour win in 2006 came after a three-hole playoff with
Natalie Gulbis in the Jamie Farr Owens Corning Classic.


Getting to another playoffs was a relief for Kim.


"I was more nervous on the final round over 18 holes than the
playoff," Kim said. "The playoff, you have to get more lucky.
Juli's second shot was over the green. That was unlucky."


Japan's Ai Miyazato (69) and Angela Stanford (72) finished tied
for third at 2-under 211.


South Korea's Young Kim (70), Mexico's world No. 1 Lorena Ochoa
(71), Reilley Rankin (74) and Stephanie Louden (74) were a
further shot back in a tie for fifth on 212.


Annika Sorenstam, who has won this event three times in six
starts - in 2002, 2004 and 2005 - was sidelined by a ruptured
disk in her back.

