

The dollar edged down in sluggish Asian trade Monday as the US
currency remained under selling pressure following a weaker-than-
expected US jobs report, dealers said.


They said the market was largely unaffected by a victory of
favorite Nicolas Sarkozy against Socialist rival Segolene Royal
in the French presidential election Sunday.


The dollar fell to 119.93 yen in Tokyo morning trade from 120.11
yen in New York late Friday.


The euro rose to 1.3605 dollars from 1.3592 dollars but declined
to 163.21 yen after 163.32 yen.


Financial markets resumed trade Monday in Tokyo after a four-day
long weekend due to national holidays.


"A weak dollar is our consensus for now as US economic indicators
were more or less showing negative signs," said Yosuke Hosokawa,
head of the forex group of Chuo Mitsui Trust Bank.


US figures showed Friday that just 88,000 new jobs were created
in April, marking the weakest reading in almost two and a half
years. Most analysts had forecast April growth of at least
100,000 new positions.


The markets are now waiting for the US Federal Reserve board
meeting Wednesday, with most interest on what the Fed will say
about the outlook given the likelihood interest rates will remain
on hold for the time being.


"The Fed is unlikely to change its rate policy this time but we
need to closely watch the statement, which will show its current
assessment of the US economy," Hosokawa said.


The Fed's short term interest rate has been anchored at 5.25
percent since June.


The impact of the French election on the euro was limited as the
market had already factored in Sarkozy's victory, dealers said.


Sarkozy won the battle to be France's new generation leader in
place of President Jacques Chirac with 53 percent of the vote
against 47 percent for Royal, according to official results. Some
market participants had said a victory for Sarkozy would support
the euro.

