

Japanese share prices jumped 1.58 percent Monday as the market
played catch up after a four-day weekend with Wall Street's
record breaking performance, dealers said.


The weaker yen against the dollar also helped sentiment,
especially in the exporters who benefit directly, helping boost
stocks across the board, they said.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
gained 274.91 points at 17,669.83.


The broader Topix index of all first-section shares added 28.81
points or 1.69 percent to 1,733.03.


Gainers led decliners 1,352 to 289, with 87 stocks unchanged.


Volume increased to 2.20 billion shares from 1.71 billion on
Wednesday. The market was closed Thursday and Friday for public
holidays.


"A strong showing by US and European shares, boosted by news of
active merger deals and negotiations, drove up Tokyo shares
across the board," said Nikko Cordial Securities in a commentary.


The dollar stood above 120 yen level in early trade, lending
support to exporter shares.


Speculation that Microsoft is eyeing a stake in Yahoo! triggered
interest in local Internet stocks after the news helped spur
buying in the US stock market late last week, dealers said.


Yahoo! Japan rallied 2,050 yen or 4.8 percent to 44,800 while
another Internet firm, Nifty, jumped 2,000 yen or 1.83 percent to
111,000.


Internet and telecom giant Softbank, of which Yahoo! Japan is a
part, rose 75 yen or 2.82 percent to 2,730.


Dealers said investors were waiting for corporate earnings
announcements in the coming weeks for a lead on the outlook for
business conditions.


"The Nikkei index is likely to face resistance at 17,800 (points)
in the near- term," said Yumi Nishimura, an equities manager at
Daiwa Securities SMBC.


"However, if positive news emerges from the earnings
announcements of such key companies as Toyota and Softbank, it
could climb higher," Nishimura said.


Softbank and Toyota are scheduled to report their annual results
on Tuesday and Wednesday respectively.


Exporters were generally higher. Sony rose 150 yen or 2.34
percent to 6,560 and Toshiba rallied 32 yen or 3.58 percent to
926.


Toyota rose 40 yen or 0.55 percent to 7,270. Honda Motor closed
70 yen or 1.73 percent higher at 4,110 after it said it would
spend about 230 million dollars on building its second car plant
in India to meet growing demand there.


Nissan Motor added 17 yen or 1.41 percent to 1,222.

