

Australian share prices rose 0.49 percent Monday, chalking up a
fourth consecutive record finish as speculation of a merger
between mining heavyweights BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto pushed
stocks higher, dealers said.


They said the gains in the big miners offset profit taking
elsewhere as well as uncertainty over a 11.1 billion dollar (9.2
billion US) bid for national airline Qantas.


The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 closed up 30.8 points at an all-
time high of 6,335.7 while the broader All Ordinaries index rose
33.2 points to 6,329.4, also a record.


Turnover was 1.62 billion shares worth 5.87 billion dollars (4.8
billion US), with rises outnumbering falls 638 to 613 while 360
stocks were unchanged.


The big miners led the market higher, following strong gains last
week on the back of robust base metal prices in London.


BHP Billiton jumped 0.96 dollars or 3.14 percent at 31.56 dollars
while Rio Tinto added 4.53 dollars or 5.22 percent to a record
close of 91.38 dollars.


Equities analyst Ron Cameron said market interest was focused on
Rio Tinto, despite little evidence of a takeover.


"The chatter is there, no doubt, but we haven't seen anything yet
-- these things get talked about but there's no real evidence,"
said Cameron, of Ord Minnett.


"I feel the outlook is supportive of share price rises even
without the takeover talk," he added.


A Rio Tinto spokesman said the company would not comment on
possible takeovers but analysts said oil companies such as
ExxonMobil and the Royal Dutch Shell group could also be
interested in the miner.


Dealers said the Qantas bid and its apparent failure attracted
keen attention amid considerable uncertainty about whether it was
still alive or not.


The offer, led by Macquarie Bank, failed to reach 50 percent
shareholder acceptances by Friday's deadline but appeared to
stumble over the line hours later only for the regulator to
insist that the deal must lapse.


Macquarie Bank shed 0.70 to 90.30. Other Australian members in
the bidding consortium were also lower -- Allco Finance Group
fell 0.55 to 12.05 and Allco Equity Partners dropped 0.15 to
3.85.


Qantas was suspended pending a further statement amid confusion
about the status of the bid.


The major banks were mixed -- National Australia Bank gained 0.43
to 44.55 and Westpac added 0.04 to 27.32 but Commonwealth Bank
slipped 0.03 to 54.27 and ANZ fell 0.15 to 30.58.


Shares in the building products company Rinker gained 0.34 to
19.23 after Mexican cement maker Cemex SA said it would extend
its revised 15.85 US dollar a share takeover offer until June 8.


Newspaper publisher Fairfax Media fell after Rupert Murdoch's
News Corp sold a strategic stake in the company. Fairfax dropped
0.14 to 5.13 while News Corp rose 0.29 to 28.90.


Telstra gained 0.01 to 4.87 while rival SingTel slipped 0.03 to
2.75.


Australia's second largest retailer Coles Group fell 0.05 to
17.70 and its suitor Wesfarmers was also lower, down 0.34 to
38.74.

