

A major US university has shelved plans to open a satellite
campus in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) due to the Gulf Arab
state's stance towards Israel, the Gulf News daily reported on
Monday.


The paper said it obtained confirmation from the University of
Connecticut that it halted plans to open up a campus in the
emirate of Dubai following concerns raised by politicians and
pressure groups in the US who oppose the UAE's policy towards
Israel.


"We have put this project on the back burner. We are not actively
working on it now," the provost of the university, Peter Nichols,
told the paper.


Israeli citizens are not permitted to enter the UAE, the Dubai
government's tourism website states.


The UAE, like most Arab states, will not normalise ties with
Israel until its conflict with the Palestinians is resolved.


The university planned to create a campus in the emirate of
Dubai, one of seven that makes up the UAE, that would issue the
same degrees as those awarded by its main campus in the US.


Connecticut state legislator Andrew Fleischmann told the paper he
and his colleagues would not allow such a deal to happen until
the UAE "changed the way it deals with Israel" and improves the
conditions of its expatriat workforce.


The New-York based Human Rights Watch published a report in
November 2006 in which it slammed the UAE's alleged record of
abuse of migrant workers.


"If the (concerns) are not addressed, I will absolutely work to
block such a partnership," Fleischmann told the paper.


Several US universities, including Georgetown, have already set
up their own satellite campuses in Qatar.


The Gulf Arab state does not have diplomatic relations with
Israel, but the Jewish state has a commercial interests office
manned by two diplomats in Doha, and representatives of the two
countries also meet on a regular basis.

