

Sri Lankan war planes Monday bombed suspected Tamil Tiger
positions in the island's north where heavy ground battles were
raging, a military spokesman said.


Supersonic jets hit positions near Iranamadu where the rebel
Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) maintain a clandestine
airfield, spokesman Prasad Samarasinghe said.


He said a Tiger military training facility was targeted by the
air force, but had no details of casualties. "The training base
had caught fire and was burning for several hours," he said.


In ground battles at Vavuniya, gateway to the rebel-held Wanni
region, the military lost seven soldiers killed and 31 wounded in
the past three days, Samarasinghe said, adding that the Tigers
too had suffered heavy casualties.


He said the number of police commandos killed in a bomb attack in
the east of the island Sunday had risen to four.


For their part, the Tigers said they had beaten back a military
attempt to advance into the rebel-held part of Vavuniya and had
killed at least five government troopers for the loss of three of
their own combatants.


"We have beaten back an advance by government forces and we
captured the bodies of five soldiers," LTTE spokesman Rasiah
Ilanthiriyan said by telephone from the rebel-held town of
Kilinochchi on Sunday night.


He said heavy fighting raged in the Vavuniya and Mannar districts
at the entrance to Wanni region.


The renewed violence came after the Sri Lankan navy said it
killed at least a dozen rebels in a battle off the northeast
coast on Friday night.


The LTTE has waged a 35-year campaign for independence that has
claimed more than 60,000 lives.


More than 4,800 people have been killed in the latest upsurge of
fighting that began in December 2005.

