

Japanese share prices jumped sharply in morning trade Monday,
adding 1.54 percent as the market played catch up after a 4-day
weekend with Wall Street's record breaking performance, dealers
said.


They said trade was active after the break here for national
holidays on Thursday and Friday.


Speculation that Microsoft is eyeing a stake in Yahoo triggered
interest in local Internet stocks after the news helped spur
buying in the US stock market late last week, they said.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
gained 267.42 points to 17,662.34 by the lunch break.


The broader Topix index of all first-section shares was up 26.94
points or 1.58 percent to 1,731.16.


Gainers beat decliners 1,306 to 308, with 108 stocks flat.


Volume rose to 1.06 billion shares from 790 million shares
Wednesday morning.


"The Nikkei index is likely to face resistance at 17,800 (points)
in the near- term," said Yumi Nishimura, an equities manager at
Daiwa Securities SMBC.


"However, if positive news emerges from the earnings
announcements of such key companies as Toyota and Softbank, it
could climb higher," Nishimura said.


Softbank and Toyota are scheduled to report their annual results
on Tuesday and Wednesday respectively.


In the Internet sector, Yahoo Japan was up 1,800 yen or 4.21
percent at 44,550 yen as Softbank rallied 90 yen or 3.39 percent
to 2,745 yen, with Nifty up 2,000 yen or 1.83 percent at 111,000
yen.


Exporters, including techs stocks and automakers, were higher.
Sony was up 110 yen or 1.72 percent at 6,520 yen while Toyota
Motor added 50 yen or 0.69 percent at 7,280 yen.


Japan Airlines rose five yen or 2.19 percent to 233 yen after the
airline warned last week of a net loss of 16.2 billion yen in the
year to March, reversing a profit projection.

