

Hong Kong share prices hit fresh record highs in Monday morning
trade, jumping above the key 21,000 points level on the back of
gains in property stocks on expectations of a strong government
land auction Tuesday, dealers said.


They said investors were in a positive mood after the market's
record close on Friday, with Wall Street's continued gains also
supporting sentiment.


In mid-morning trade, the Hang Seng Index was up 167.08 points or
0.80 percent at 21,008.16, off a low of 20,924.76 and a high of
21,017.25.


The index's previous all-time intraday high was 20,971.46, hit on
January 24 this year while the market chalked up a record close
of 20,841.08 on Friday.


Turnover was 21.94 billion dollars (2.8 billion US).


"Overall sentiment is positive after another record close on Wall
Street last Friday," said Castor Pang, strategist at Sun Hung Kai
Financial Group.


Pang said investors are confident of more gains to come on global
stock markets, led by Wall Street, and this week's US central
bank meeting seems to pose no risk on interest rates.


"Most investors are not worried about any interest rate increase
... and they expect more upside on Wall Street which could
further boost other markets, including Hong Kong," he said.


Pang noted that interest in properties was strong because of
expectations that the land auction Tuesday will draw strong
interest from major developers.


"I expect (keen) competition among major developers," Pang said.


The government will auction a plot of land in the West Kowloon
Reclamation area, with some analysts expecting the 8,060-square-
meter site to fetch up to four billion dollars, against the
reserve price of 2.6 billion dollars.


"The current short supply of luxury apartments makes it likely
for whoever wins the auction to make a good profit from the
luxury residential project that will be built on that site," Pang
said.


The property sector sub-index was up 521.15 points or 2.0 percent
at 26,572.04. Cheung Kong rose 1.70 dollars at 111.20 dollar and
Sun Hung Kai Properties was up 1.0 at 97.25.


Among the large-caps, China Mobile was up 0.50 at 72.85, HSBC up
0.10 at 147.10, Hutchison Whampoa up 1.65 at 79.25 and PetroChina
up 0.12 at 10.30.

