

Flamboyant All Black lock Ali Williams has been sent packing in
disgrace from South Africa by his Auckland Blues Super 14 team
for offences including drinking before matches.


Williams, who has struggled to get a starting place in the Blues
this season, will miss this weekend's Super 14 semi-final against
the Sharks and the final if the Blues win in Durban.


Blues chief executive Andy Dalton said the 26-year-old was guilty
of a series of offences over recent weeks and the decision to
send him home was made by team management and six senior players.


"It's unfortunately something that has been going on for quite
some time," Dalton said.


"We're talking about weeks and weeks of a large number of
misdemeanours where the guy has let down teammates, and let down
himself, and the guys weren't prepared to put up with it any
longer," Dalton said.


Several late-night drinking sessions in Perth ahead of the Blues'
match against the Western Force on Friday appear to have been the
final straw, although Dalton did not go into details.


Williams was also allegedly disrespectful of team mates, with
Dalton saying he had been spoken to at least four times but did
not improve his behaviour.


The drinking sessions came to light as the team was boarding a
plane in Sydney and Williams was told of the decision to send him
home when the plane arrived reached South Africa.


All Black coach Graham Henry did not want to comment on how the
incident would affect Williams' hopes of adding to his 40 Test
appearances when New Zealand takes on France in June.


All Blacks manager Darren Shand said it was too early to say if
any action would be taken.


"It's probably not appropriate for me to talk about All Black
selection at this stage," Shand told New Zealand television.


"We don't know all the facts."

