

Two Australian journalists who were making a documentary on
slavery in refugee camps in northwest Africa were briefly
detained in Algeria by separatists, an official said Monday.


The pair were released unharmed by the Algerian-backed Polisario
Front, an independence movement fighting for self-rule of
disputed Western Sahara, annexed by Morocco in the 1970s, a
foreign ministry spokesman told AFP.


"We are aware that two Australian journalists who were making a
documentary in the Western Sahara, in the border area between
Algeria and Mauritania, have encountered difficulties with the
Polisario Front," he said.


"But they left the area by commercial flight on Sunday and we
understand they are now in Paris, but we are awaiting
confirmation on that," the spokesman told AFP.


The department would not confirm the names of the pair, but local
reports said they were Sydney-based independent filmmakers
Violeta Ayala and Daniel Fallshaw.


The pair were detained after it emerged they were making a
documentary about slavery and racism in refugee camps run by the
Polisario Front in southwestern Algeria, reports said.


Australia does not maintain an embassy in Algeria but its embassy
in Paris "made vigorous representations to the relevant
authorities to seek their release," the ministry spokesman said.


Australians are strongly advised not to travel to Western Sahara
due to the risk of landmines and terrorist attacks.


Morocco annexed the desolate but phosphate-rich Western Sahara
after the withdrawal of the region's former colonial power Spain
and neighbour Mauritania in the 1970s.


A war ensued with the armed Polisario Front, which was set up in
1973 and established itself as the sole representative of the
nomadic Saharan or Sahrawi people.


The conflict ended in 1991 with a UN-brokered ceasefire but the
question of self-determination has not yet been settled.

