

The percentage of Catholics in Brazil has decreased by 10 percent
in the past decade according to a study revealed Sunday, days
ahead of Pope Benoit XVI's first official visit to the country.


The pope's four-day visit begins Wednesday. He is expected to
discuss poverty, the impact of globalization and the rise of
evangelical sects in the traditionally Roman Catholic stronghold
with Latin American bishops.


Sixty-four percent of the population is Catholic, compared with
74 percent 10 years ago, said the study by the Datafolha
Institute published in the newspaper Folha de Sao Paulo.


On the whole, Brazilians reported being deeply religious people:
97 percent believe in God, 86 percent believe Mary was a virgin
when she conceived Jesus and 93 percent believe Christ was
resurrected after his death on the cross.


The number of Pentecostal evangelicals has risen to 17 percent
from its previous 11 percent, the study said.


Evangelists typically recruit on the outskirts of Brazil's larger
cities, where their followers represent 29 percent of the
population compared with 55 percent who are Catholics.


"Pentecostal churches penetrate where the Catholic church is
not," analyst Edlaine de Campos Gomes was quoted as saying by the
paper.


"They encourage people to integrate through different social
networks."


The Datafolha study gathered together results from eight national
polls taken between 2006 and 2007 and were based on 44,642
interviews.


A study by the Getulio Vargas Foundation published last week said
the number of Catholics stabilized between 2000 and 2003 after
falling since 1980 as evangelicals gained in strength.

