

Here are the main events in the history of Australian airline
Qantas, the target of a failed 11.1 billion dollar (9.2 billion
US) takeover by a private equity consortium.


-- 1920 -- Queensland and Northern Territory Aerial Services Ltd
is formed, with the first scheduled Qantas mail and passenger
flight operating in 1922.


-- 1935 -- Qantas operates its first overseas flight, from Darwin
to Singapore.


-- 1939-1946 -- The airline pioneers flights of 30 hours or more,
extending its reach to Sri Lanka, India and Pacific islands.


-- 1947 -- The Australian government buys all shares in Qantas,
the same year the airline operates its first flight to Japan.


-- 1954 -- The airline begins flights to San Francisco and
Vancouver. It pioneers round-the-world services in 1958.


-- 1979 -- Qantas introduces the world's first Business Class.


-- 1989 -- Qantas sets a world distance record for commercial
jets when its Boeing 747-400 flies 18,000 kilometres non-stop,
from London to Sydney, in just over 20 hours.


-- 1993 -- The Australian government sells a 25 percent share of
the airline to British Airways as the first step towards
privatisation.


-- 2004 -- Qantas launches new domestic budget carrier 'Jetstar'.


-- Nov, 2006 -- Qantas announces it is being targeted for a
takeover by an international private equity consortium.


-- Dec 12 -- Qantas board rejects the takeover, saying it was
highly complex and too conditional.


-- Dec 14 -- Qantas board unanimously accepts an improved 11.1
billion dollar (9.2 billion US) bid from the Macquarie Bank-led
Airline Partners Australia (APA) consortium.


-- Feb 2 -- APA, which comprises Australian companies Macquarie
Bank Ltd, Allco Finance Group Ltd and Allco Equity Partners, as
well as US buyout firm Texas Pacific Group and Canada's Onex
Corp, rules out increasing its bid.


-- March 6 -- The government says it will not block the bid after
APA agree to a range of conditions, including maintaining
majority Australian ownership. Qantas shares reach a record high
of 5.32 dollars the following day.


-- March 23 -- Key Qantas shareholder Balanced Equity Management
says it will not accept the 5.45 dollars per share bid because it
is too low.


-- April 12 -- APA drops its 90 percent shareholder acceptance
condition to 70 percent. Deadline for acceptances will not be
extended beyond May 4.


-- May 4 -- Only 46 percent of acceptances received before 7:00
pm deadline closes; APA says bid will not go ahead and wishes
Qantas well.


-- May 5 -- The consortium announces a late acceptance from a
large American investor had pushed acceptances to 50.6 percent,
urges regulators to allow the bid to continue. Qantas board meets
to discuss events amid calls for their resignation.


-- May 6 -- Australia's Takeovers Panel rejects appeal to count
late acceptances. The Qantas board announces the deal dead but
APA demands a review of the decision.


-- May 7 -- The Australian Securities and Investments Commission
rejects APA's demand, says deadline was final. APA says it may
make a fresh offer for the carrier at the same price. Trading in
Qantas shares to remain suspended until Wednesday pending an
announcement by the airline.

