

A new French government must pull troops out of Afghanistan, the
Taliban said Monday after France's presidential election, and
offered to extend a deadline over the release of a French
hostage.


A spokesman said the insurgent movement is ready to extend the
deadline for its demands to be met for the release of the Terre
d'Enfance (A World For Our Children) aid worker if the Afghan and
French governments make contact.


"We ask the new French government to secure the national
interests of France and Afghanistan," Yousuf Ahmadi told AFP here
hours after rightwinger Nicolas Sarkozy won the presidential
election.


"It mustn't sacrifice its national interests for the interests
and strategies of the Americans. It is also not fair that the
French youth or the Afghan youth die in fighting.


"Our first demand from the new government of France is that
before anything else they must present an exact timetable for the
withdrawal of their troops from Afghanistan."


The hardline Taliban, which was in government between 1996 and
2001, is waging a growing insurgency that is being tackled by
troops from Afghanistan and 37 other countries, including France
which has about 1,000 troops here.


The Taliban was driven from power by a US-led coalition in late
2001 in the wake of the September 11 attacks in the United
States.


The group has demand the French troops leave or that Taliban
prisoners be freed from Afghan jails in exchange for volunteer
Eric Damfreville and three Afghan co-workers captured more than a
month ago.


"As we said earlier, our deadline extends at the end of the
election process in France," Ahmadi said.


He said Sunday that this meant until the new government was in
place, which should be around late June.


"If anybody contacts us, either the Afghan government or the
French government, about the hostages, we are ready to further
extend the deadline," Ahmadi said.

