

Rio Tinto Monday refused to comment on speculation of a mega-
merger with fellow mining giant BHP Billiton which helped drive
Australia's sharemarket to record highs.


Speculation that the world's biggest miner BHP Billiton could
take over its closest rival Rio Tinto in a deal potentially worth
100 billion dollars saw shares in the two companies rise sharply.


Rio Tinto rose 5.22 percent to a record close of 91.38 dollars
(74.9 US dollars) while BHP Billiton climbed 3.14 percent to
31.56 dollars.


Citigroup analysts fuelled takeover talk about the companies,
saying that while Rio Tinto's strong cashflow could make it an
attractive target for private equity firms, BHP Billiton was a
more likely bidder.


"Rio Tinto's strong cashflow and nominal gearing (debt levels)
may bring it into the crosshairs of private equity (groups) but
we think BHP Billiton is a much more likely bidder given
synergies and the nationalistic control issue of Australian
assets," Citigroup said.


"Applying even a modest bid premium means that any party will
need to finance 100 billion US-plus through debt and equity," it
said.


A union between BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto would create the
world's largest producer of coking coal, thermal coal and copper,
and position the company as the equal largest iron ore producer
with Brazilian giant CVRD.


Equities analyst Ron Cameron said market interest was focused on
Rio Tinto, despite little evidence of a takeover being in the
works.


"The chatter is there, no doubt, but we haven't seen anything yet
-- these things get talked about but there's no real evidence,"
said Cameron, of Ord Minnett.


And he added: "I feel the outlook is supportive of share price
rises even without the takeover talk."


A Rio Tinto spokesman said the company would not comment on
possible takeovers while analysts said oil companies such as
ExxonMobil and the Royal Dutch Shell group could be interested in
the miner.

