

Japan on Monday welcomed the victory of French president-elect
Nicolas Sarkozy, who once derided Japan but has promised to
support Tokyo's bid to win a permanent seat in the UN Security
Council.


"I want to convey my congratulations," said Prime Minister Shinzo
Abe.


"In a spirit of building a new era of the Japan-France
relationship, I want us to join together in our efforts," said
Abe, known for his conservative policies.


Abe and Sarkozy, both 52, met in January when the Japanese
premier visited France during his European tour.


"I sensed his strong determination to make France a better
country," Abe said.


Sarkozy was critical of Japan in 2004, at the time making fun of
sumo and the ancient capital of Kyoto -- which was often visited
by the man he has replaced, outgoing President Jacques Chirac.


"How can anyone be fascinated by these battles between fat guys
with slicked- down ponytails? Sumo wrestling is really not a
sport for intellectuals," Sarkozy reportedly said at a dinner in
Hong Kong in 2004.


"Hong Kong is a magical city. But Tokyo is not. This capital city
is suffocating," he said.


"As for Kyoto, I don't understand how anyone can be amazed by
this (former imperial) city. Even the famous imperial gardens, I
found them to be grim."


Japanese top government spokesman Yasuhisa Shiozaki played down
concerns about Sarkozy's relatively weak ties with Japan.


Sarkozy "may not have a reputation of being a pro-Japan
politician, but I hope he also will make as much effort (as
Chirac) to construct a strong relationship with Japan," Shiozaki
told a press conference.


"I hope that Japan and France will further solidify bilateral
ties under the new president and I hope that Japan and France
will coordinate efforts to tackle a variety of issues affecting
international society," he said.


Sarkozy has promised to back Japan's bid to secure a permanent
seat in the UN Security Council, Japan's top diplomatic priority.

