

Sri Lanka was ready to negotiate a fresh ceasefire with Tamil
Tiger rebels as the Norwegian-brokered truce had virtually
collapsed, a government minister said Monday.


Defence ministry spokesman Keheliya Rambukwella said the
ceasefire arranged and put in place by Norway from February 2002
had been violated more than 10,000 times and was virtually dead.


"There is no point in beating round the bush," Rambukwella told
reporters when asked if the government accepted that the truce
agreement was still on place. "The government is ready to re-look
at it."


"It has been violated over 10,000 times by the Tigers. Yes, the
ceasefire is there to make the international community happy, but
you know the reality," said Rambukwella who is also the minister
of foreign employment.


He said the government reserved the right to take any action to
safeguard its "national interests" despite any provision of the
truce limiting military action against the Liberation Tigers of
Tamil Eelam (LTTE).


Both the government and the Tamil Tigers have carried out air
attacks against each other despite the ceasefire expressly
prohibiting aerial strikes.


Rambukwella said the military would step up its aerial
surveillance of rebel- held territory using spy planes following
the Tigers' demonstration of their air capability in March with
the bombing of several military targets.


He said the military was also upgrading its capabilities to shoot
down Tiger light aircraft which have carried out four sorties
over the capital and a military complex in the north of the
island and escaped unchallenged.


More than 4,800 people have been killed in a new wave of fighting
since December 2005 despite the truce.


Peace talks between the two sides broke down in October 2005.

