

There was a mixed reaction Monday to plans to introduce a
congestion charge to New York City, with newspapers describing
the proposals by Mayor Michael Bloomberg as ambitious and
controversial.


Bloomberg unveiled a broad package of environmental proposals
Sunday, including planting one million new trees and charging
drivers eight dollars to enter the southern half of Manhattan
during the week.


"This move to congestion pricing in New York City is long
overdue. But it will still kick up lots of opposition," the New
York Times said in an editorial.


"There would be all kinds of exceptions, but the eight dollar fee
could generate more than 500 million dollars a year, the mayor
figures. That is the right way to make money," it said.


The New York Post described his plans as controversial and said
in an editorial the charge was "a hefty load -- on top of
already-oppressive taxes and other fees."


"The fact is that Mayor Mike has put a thoughtful, comprehensive
plan on the table to address a vital goal: New York City's long-
term viability. The alternative is a city lurching from one
crisis to the next.


"Mayor Mike wants to do it differently -- and for that, New York
needs to give his plan a fair hearing," it said.


While the Times said the proposals proved Bloomberg was committed
to the final two and a half years of his mayoral term, the Daily
News said the plan suggested Bloomberg could be preparing a run
for president.


The billionaire business guru-turned-mayor has repeatedly
insisted he is not interested in running for president in next
year's election.

