

UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon on Monday urged an end to deadly
fighting between insurgents, some of whom are allegedly linked to
Al-Qaeda, and Somali government-allied Ethiopian troops in
Mogadishu.


Ban "calls on the parties to immediately cease all hostilities"
and is "gravely concerned about the continuing heavy fighting in
Mogadishu," his spokeswoman Michele Montas said in a statement.


At least 37 people were killed in fighting on Monday, bringing to
256 -- including 28 insurgents -- the number of dead in the past
six days, according to the Elman Peace and Human Rights
Organization in Somalia.


Ban "deplores the reported indiscriminate use of heavy weapons
against civilian population centers, which is in disregard of
international humanitarian law."


Ban appealed for a ceasefire in order to "facilitate access for
the delivery of urgently needed humanitarian assistance" and
urged a resumption of talks because "there is no military
solution to the Somali conflict."


The Ethiopian army, which is allied to the Somali transitional
government, on Monday continued to bombard insurgent positions in
Mogadishu where residents are trapped in a bloody exchange of gun
and artillery fire between the rival groups.


The UN refugee agency said last week that more than 321,000
people had fled the seaside capital since February 1. Thousands
more have fled due to the fresh surge of fighting which began
Tuesday.


Ethiopian troops helped Somalia's UN-backed government to oust
Islamists from the country's south and central regions in
January, but fighting has intensified as insurgents and clan
warlords wage a guerrilla war in a bid to drive out foreign
forces.


Somalia has lacked an effective government since the 1991 ouster
of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre sparked a deadly power struggle
that has defied more than 14 attempts to stabilize the country.

