

British Prime Minister Tony Blair hailed former Russian president
Boris Yeltsin, who died Monday, as a "remarkable" man who had
played a vital role at a crucial time in his country's history.


"It is with sadness that I learned of the death of former
president Yeltsin," Blair said in a statement issued by his
office.


"He was a remarkable man who saw the need for democracy and
economic reform and in defending that reform he played a vital
role at a crucial time in Russia's history."


Elsewhere in Britain, members of Margaret Thatcher and John
Major's Conservative Party governments -- in power from 1979 to
1997 -- highlighted Yeltsin's efforts in preventing an attempted
coup by hardline Communists in 1991.


Former finance minister Lord Norman Lamont, who dealt with the
Kremlin leader at meetings of the Group of Seven wealthiest
nations, said: "Yeltsin was a very brave man, a fighter for
democracy, and economic reform.


"Today there is criticism of the privatisations of the early
1990s, but much of it was done under very difficult
circumstances. Yeltsin introduced many reforms which will benefit
the Russian people."


Lamont's colleague Sir Malcolm Rifkind, who was foreign secretary
in the mid- 1990s, said: "He was a larger than life character,
very engaging, very Russian. Very emotional, but also with
tremendous courage.


"He was a seminal figure. His biggest contribution was to ensure
the Communist Party was not able to grab back power after the
attempted coup.


"Yeltsin made a major impact by preventing the coup succeeding,
but he also realised that it was necessary to dismantle the
Soviet Union," Rifkind said.

