

International health officials said Monday they had big hopes of
making inroads against malaria, which still kills one child every
30 seconds in parts of Africa.


"Things are moving. We have the tools that we need, we know what
needs to be done and we have a lot more means than before," said
Awa Coll-Seck, head of the UN-led "Rollback Malaria" partnership.


"The situation gives us enormous hope," she told a news
conference ahead of African Malaria Day on April 25.


The Rollback Malaria partnership was launched by United Nations
agencies and the World Bank in 1998 to cut the global death toll
from mosquito-borne malaria.


Malaria kills about one million people of all ages a year
worldwide, 90 percent of them in sub-Saharan Africa, according to
the World Health Organisation.


In several African countries, malaria is the single leading cause
of death with one child dying every 30 seconds.


The partnership has received commitments for more than one
billion dollars in a seventh round of funding for anti-malaria
projects such as drugs, mosquito nets, and mosquito control
measures.


However Coll-Seck said that only one-third of the requests for
funding from states affected by the disease went through, because
many programmes fell below international standards.


Michel Kazatchkine, head of the Global Fund to Fight AIDS,
Tuberculosis and Malaria, said the medicines used, or sometimes
the mosquito nets, were not up to scratch, while in other cases
the project budgets appeared disproportionate.


One such case occurred in Uganda, officials said.


However, they praised Rwanda -- where nearly all five year olds
now sleep under a mosquito net -- as well as Ghana, Kenya,
Mozambique, South Africa, Swaziland, Tanzania, and Zambia.


"I have great hopes that in the coming years we will have a major
impact on malaria," said Kazatchkine.


"Things are changing fast. I hope we'll be able to eradicate
malaria in a large number of countries," he added.

