

Pope Benedict XVI has called for the Group of Eight summit to
agree debt cancellation for the world's poorest as well as large-
scale investment for fighting killer diseases such as AIDS and
malaria.


The pope made the plea for "the rapid, total and unconditional
cancellation" of debt in a letter written in December to German
Chancellor Angela Merkel, who responded two months later.


However, the two letters were only made public Monday by the
Vatican.


"I welcome the fact that the question of poverty, with specific
reference to Africa, now appears on the agenda of the G8," wrote
the German pontiff, ahead of the Group of Eight (G8) summit in
Germany on June 6-8.


"Indeed, it should be given the highest attention and priority,
for the sake of poor and rich countries alike."


He wrote that the fact the German presidency of the G8 coincided
with it also holding the rotating presidency of the 27-member
European Union offered "a unique opportunity to tackle this
issue."


And he called for "a substantial investment of resources for
research and for the development of medicines to treat AIDS,
tuberculosis, malaria and other tropical diseases."


The international community must also continue efforts for the
reduction of the "legal and the illegal arms trade, the illegal
trade of precious raw materials, and the flight of capital from
poor countries," he wrote.


"While these challenges should be undertaken by all members of
the international community, the G8 and the European Union should
take the lead,"  the 80-year-old pope said.


For her part, Merkel, in her reply, outlined her priorities such
as the economic development of the African continent, stronger
international commitment, fighting AIDS and debt cancellation.


The G8 summit takes place in the northeastern German town of
Heiligendamm.

