

Sheryl Crowe is suggesting a bottom-up solution to wipe away
global warming: limit each trip to the bathroom to one piece of
toilet paper, according to a statement on the US rocker's
website.


Crowe said she had spent most of an environmental tour of US
college campuses thinking of easy ways for people to battle
climate change.


"Although my ideas are in the earliest stages of development,
they are, in my mind, worth investigating. One of my favorites is
in the area of conserving trees which we heavily rely on for
oxygen," the signed statement said.


"I propose a limitation be put on how many squares of toilet
paper can be used in any one sitting," she explained.


"I think we are an industrious enough people that we can make it
work with only one square per restroom visit, except, of course,
on those pesky occasions where two to three could be required."


Other plans she has included not using paper napkins.


"I have designed a clothing line that has what's called a 'dining
sleeve.' The sleeve is detachable and can be replaced with
another 'dining sleeve,' after usage," she explained in the
increasingly bizarre posting.


"The design will offer the 'diner' the convenience of wiping his
mouth on his sleeve rather than throwing out yet another barely
used paper product... I think this idea could also translate
quite well to those suffering with an annoying head cold."


Her third idea was for a television reality show in which the
winner would be the contestant who lives the most
environmentally-friendly life. The prize would be a recording
contract.


Crowe's spokesman was not immediately available to elaborate on
the singer's proposals.

