

Swiss authorities said Monday they would pay 402.5 million Swiss
francs (245 million euros, 333 millionm dollars) to European
Union countries for the first full year of a levy designed to
discourage EU residents from using Swiss bank accounts for tax
evasion.


Under an agreement that came into force in July 2005, Switzerland
levies the 15 percent withholding tax on interest payments made
to residents of the EU who have bank accounts in the country.


One quarter of the total 536.7 million Swiss francs of tax
revenue collected in 2006 will be retained by Switzerland, while
the rest will be paid to 25 EU states, the Swiss Finance Ministry
said in a statement.


Nearly two thirds of the amount heading to the EU will go to
Switzerland's three immediate neighbours: Germany (103.37 million
Swiss francs), Italy (102.97 million Swiss francs) and France
(49.92 million Swiss francs).


The other leading countries are Britain (31.87 million Swiss
francs) and Spain (30.24 million Swiss francs).


The tax was agreed following years of pressure on Switzerland by
EU countries, which complained that their residents were taking
advantage of Swiss banking secrecy rules to hide revenue in the
Alpine nation's banks.


Swiss law prohibits banks from disclosing details on client
accounts to any public authority at home or abroad, except in
criminal investigations.


Under the agreement, EU customers can opt out of the automatic
levy by choosing to allow the bank to declare their interest
revenue in Switzerland to tax authorities.


Some 55,000 people opted for the declaration in 2006, the finance
ministry said.


The withholding tax rate is due to increase in steps to reach 35
percent by 2011.

