

The European Union should adopt an independent position to that
of the United States regarding Iran's nuclear programme, Iranian
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad said in an interview Monday.


"If the European Union wants to play an appropriate role in
international relations, it should act independently," he told
Spanish state television TVE in Tehran.


"If the European Union wants only to transmit the words of the
United States, we can hear directly what the United States has to
say to us, we don't need Europe to translate for us."


Ahmadinejad was speaking ahead of a meeting between EU policy
chief Javier Solana and Iran's top nuclear negotiator, Ali
Larijani, scheduled for Wednesday in Turkey.


The meeting will come half way through a 60-day UN deadline for
Iran to cease its uranium enrichment activities with the threat
of further Security Council sanctions.


Larijani on Monday urged Solana to avoid any talk of
preconditions in the meeting and instead present "new
initiatives" to end the standoff.


"Artificial views and diplomatic dancing in talks will have no
result and new initiatives must be presented in the talks," he
said according to the Mehr news agency.


The United States and European Union have said negotiations can
only start if Iran freezes enrichment. Tehran, however, says it
will only negotiate with no preconditions and will never suspend
enrichment.


The United States, which accuses Iran of seeking to make nuclear
weapons, has never ruled out the option of military action to
bring Tehran to heel. Iran insists its nuclear drive is solely
for generating energy.


Solana and Larijani held several rounds of discussions last year
which failed to find a solution to the crisis.

