

Urban planners in South Africa have failed to tackle the legacy
of apartheid, when the black population was forced to live in
townships on the edge of cities, President Thabo Mbeki said
Monday.


In an address to an association of municipalities, Mbeki said
that little progress had been made since he last appeared at
their conference three years ago and said too much low-cost
housing was being erected far from the centre.


"One of the challenges we identified in 2004 was the need to
transform the apartheid settlement patterns," said Mbeki.


"Except for few cases, our municipalities have not responded
positively to this challenge.


"We still see settlement patterns where new houses for poor black
people are still built at the outskirts of our towns, usually far
from places of employment."


The emergence of sprawling townships, such as Soweto on the
outskirts of Johannaesburg, was one of the starkest features of
the whites-only apartheid era when blacks were largely prevented
from living within the cities.


Despite the end of apartheid in 1994, most black housing is still
concentrated far from the centre while the richer white minority
tend to live further in town.


Mbeki said that councils should rethink their use of land and not
always sell off space in the city centres to the highest bidder.


"It is unacceptable that municipalities continue allocating land
that is closer to commercial centres solely to developers who
build for the upper end of the housing market," he said.


"We must stop this practice because by so doing, we are failing
to use housing as a catalyst to integrate communities that have
been divided for many years by apartheid."

