

The US State Department announced sanctions Monday against 14
entities, including three Chinese firms and Syria's air force and
navy, as part of a stepped up drive to halt banned military
dealings with Iran and Syria.


The measures also hit Lebanon's Hezbollah movement -- already
targetted by numerous US sanctions as a designated terrorist
group -- a Pakistani national and companies from Malaysia,
Singapore and Mexico.


The 14 were accused of transferring to or buying from Iran or
Syria materials related to cruise or ballistic missile systems or
weapons of mass destruction.


Under the Iran and Syria Nonproliferation Act, the 14 are barred
from doing business with or receiving aid from any US government
agencies for two years.


State Department officials refused to elaborate on specific
charges against any of the named entities, saying this could
reveal classified intelligence information.


But the penalties were largely symbolic since a number of the
targetted entities are already subject to US sanctions, one
official said on condition of anonymity.


The listed entities included the China National Precision
Machinery Import/Export Corporation, the Shanghai Non-Ferrous
Metals Pudong Development Trade Company and the Zibo Chemet
Equipment Company (China).


Also listed were Sokkia Singapore PTE Ltd., Challenger
Corporation and Target Airfreight of Malaysia, Aerospace
Logistics Services of Mexico and Pakistani national Arif Durrani.


In Syria, the sanctions target the Air Force, Navy, Army Supply
Bureau and Industrial Establishment of Defense.


An official in the State Department's nonproliferation bureau was
unable to say if the Syrian military departments had been the
object of previous US sanctions.

