

US stock indexes were mixed Monday morning as investors focused
on corporate earnings and big merger news from the global banking
sector.


At 1431 GMT, the leading Dow Jones Industrial Average index was
down a slight 1.54 points (0.01 percent) at 12,960.44, after
closing at a record high of 12,961.98 on Friday following an
upbeat trading week.


The tech-rich Nasdaq composite had fallen 0.69 points (0.03
percent) to 2,525.70, but the broad-market Standard and Poor's
was 1.26 points (0.08) percent higher at 1,485.61.


The banking sector was in focus as Britain's Barclays agreed to
buy Dutch peer ABN Amro in a deal that would create Europe's
second-biggest bank and mark the biggest global banking merger
ever.


In related news, Bank of America announced a 21-billion-dollar
takeover offer for LaSalle Bank Corporation.


Bank of America would buy LaSalle from ABN Amro as part of ABN
Amro's merger agreement with Barclays.


Some analysts noted that the leading Dow index was still flirting
close to the 13,000 point mark in choppy up and down trading, but
said investors would likely take profits out of the market if
that benchmark high is struck.


"Dow 13,000 will serve as a magnet while a move over that level
will probably exhaust the bulls and start some normal profit
taking," said Al Goldman, a chief market strategist at AG
Edwards.


If the LaSalle deal is successful, it would enlarge Bank of
America's US footprint considerably and threaten Citigroup's
position as the US' biggest financial group.


"The purchase will significantly deepen Bank of America's Chicago
presence and add LaSalle's 17,000 commercial banking clients, 1.4
million retail customers, 411 banking centers and 1,500 ATMs in
the Chicago area, Michigan and Indiana," Bank of America said in
a statement.


Bank of America's shares were down 29 cents at 50.75 dollars
while ABN Amro's US-listed shares were down 82 cents at 48.47
dollars.


The takeover would mark the latest by Bank of America which has
expanded aggressively since chief executive Kenneth Lewis took
over the helm in 2001.


US biotechnology company MedImmune was also in focus after Anglo-
Swedish pharmaceuticals giant AstraZeneca said it has agreed to
buy the US firm for 15.6 billion dollars.


AstraZeneca, the third-biggest European drugs maker behind
GlaxoSmithKline and Sanofi-Aventis, said it hopes to wrap up the
deal by June.


MedImmune's shares had rocketed 8.60 dollars, or over 17 percent,
to 56.61 dollars.


Traders said investors would also continue focusing on fresh
corporate earnings reports in coming days as well as economic
news including updates on home sales.


Stocks soared to record heights last week as investors cheered
generally robust earnings news from corporate America.


Bond prices weakened as investors shifted into stocks.


The yield on the 10-year US Treasury bond rose to 4.678 percent
from 4.672 percent late Friday while that on the 30-year bond
climbed to 4.855 percent against 4.845 percent. Bond yields and
prices move in opposite directions.

