

World leaders on Monday paid tribute to former Russian president
Boris Yeltsin for his courageous role in defending democracy
after the traumatic collapse of the Soviet Union.


Yeltsin, who died Monday of a heart attack at the age of 76, was
lauded as an historic reformer, despite a mixed final legacy and
a reputation for hard living that contributed to his long-term
ill-health.


"He was an historic figure during a time of great change and
challenge for Russia," said US national security spokesman Gordon
Johndroe, who offered the White House's condolences to Yeltsin's
widow.


British Prime Minister Tony Blair said the former president was a
"remarkable" man who had fearlessly championed democracy and
economic reform.


"And in defending that reform he played a vital role at a crucial
time in Russia's history," Blair said.


Many recalled the iconic image of Yeltsin clambering onto a tank
sent into Moscow in 1991 by communist hardliners attempting a
coup in the dying days of the Soviet Union.


"No American, at least, will forget seeing him standing on the
tank," said US Defence Secretary Robert Gates.


European Commission chief Jose Manuel Barroso said Yeltsin had
shown "great personal courage" in defending freedom.


"As president he had enormous challenges and difficult mandates
but he certainly brought East and West closer together and helped
replace confrontation by cooperation," Barroso said.


The same legacy was highlighted by NATO Secretary General Jaap de
Hoop Scheffer who said Yeltsin had been at the forefront of post-
Cold War efforts to forge a new relationship between Russia and
the alliance.


"This historic effort to set aside the fears and stereotypes of
the past in favour of cooperation in facing the challenges of the
future ... continues to this day," Scheffer said.


Mikhail Gorbachev, the last Soviet president, paid a mixed
tribute to the man who ended up helping to push him out of
office.


"I offer my deepest condolences to the family of a man on whose
shoulders rested many great deeds for the good of the country and
serious mistakes -- a tragic fate," Gorbachev was quoted by
Interfax as saying.


There was more effusive praise from exiled Russian billionaire
Boris Berezovsky, who made his fortune under Yeltsin and called
him Russia's "greatest reformer."


"He helped millions and millions of Russians become free,
including me. He helped me to understand freedom compared to
slavery," Berezovsky said. "He was definitely unique, a man at
the top of Russia's history."


Yeltsin's former advisor, Alexander Nekrasov, said he would
always be remembered as the man who brought down communism, but
acknowledged that things went "seriously wrong" for his old boss
after his election win in 1996.


"People were using his position to gain enormous wealth. Yeltsin
was sometimes weak and ill, well, let's face it he was drinking a
lot," he said.


Swedish Foreign Minister Carl Bildt hailed the former Russian
president as "one of the truly great men of our time" who put
Russia on a new path during a crucial period of uncertainty.


"When everything was uncertain in the crumbling Soviet Union, it
was he who staked out a new direction by abolishing the Soviet
Union and granting independence to the three Baltic states,"
Bildt said.


Political leaders in Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia mourned the
man who helped all three Baltic countries regain independence
from the Soviet Union.


"Yeltsin was the statesman who laid the ground," Lithuanian Prime
Minister Gediminas Kirkilas told AFP.

