

A Rwandan journalist has been sentenced to one year's jail for
libel against the authorities, a human rights group said on
Monday.


Agnes Nkusi Uwimana, who runs the independent bi-monthly
Umurabyo, was on Friday found guilty of "contempt, libel and
serious slander of the head of state, political and military
authorities and of other private people," the League for Human
Rights in the Great Lakes Region said on its website.


Uwimana, who was arrested on January 12, was also found guilty of
"discrimination and sectarianism" and of writing bad cheques,
according to the group.


The league said the journalist had "pleaded guilty and
apologised" during the trial, but according to the Committee to
Protect Journalists (CPJ), a New York- based media watchdog, she
had only done so in exchange for a reduction of the five-year
sentence requested by the state prosecutor.


In a statement on Friday, the CPJ said the charges against
Uwimana appeared to be linked to a reader's letter critical of
the government which was published in Umurabyo.


"It is completely unacceptable that Agnes Nkusi Uwimana should
spend a year behind bars for publishing a reader's letter," CPJ's
executive director Joel Simon said in the statement.


The Paris-based Reporters Without Borders media rights group said
the charges were linked to an editorial critical of the President
Paul Kagame's government.


Kagame has ruled Rwanda since 1994 when he led a group of Tutsi
rebel fighters into Kigali and put an end to a government-
orchestrated genocide carried out by Hutu extremists.

