

US President George W. Bush on Monday mourned former Russia
president Boris Yeltsin as "an historic figure" who helped
democracy take root there and fostered warm ties with the United
States.


"Laura and I are deeply saddened by the death of former Russian
President Boris Yeltsin. President Yeltsin was an historic figure
who served his country during a time of momentous change," Bush
said in a statement.


The 76-year-old Yeltsin, who had long been unwell, died of a
heart attack at 3:45 pm (1145 GMT) in Moscow's Central Clinical
Hospital, presidential medical service chief Sergei Mironov told
Interfax news agency.


"He played a key role as the Soviet Union dissolved, helped lay
the foundations of freedom in Russia, and became the first
democratically elected leader in that country's history. I
appreciate the efforts that President Yeltsin made to build a
strong relationship between Russia and the United States," said
Bush.


"We offer our sincerest condolences to the Yeltsin family and to
the Russian people," said the US president.


In a separate statement, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said
that Yeltsin "will be remembered for his significant contribution
to ending the Cold War and his efforts to expand political and
economic freedom at home and abroad."


Yeltsin "ushered in a new era for his country in which ordinary
Russians were able to speak and worship without fear, to own
property, and to choose their leaders freely."


Yeltsin will also be remembered for establishing good relations
between Moscow and Washington "after many years of conflict,"
Rice said.

