

US President George W. Bush said Monday he would oppose any
effort to set a timetable for a US withdrawal from Iraq and said
that a US-led security crackdown had reduced sectarian violence
there.


"There's been some progress. There's been some horrific bombings,
of course, but there's also a decline in sectarian violence,"
Bush said as he met in the Oval Office with the US commander in
Iraq, General David Petraeus.


Petraeus was due to brief US lawmakers amid a pitched political
battle between the White House and Democratic leaders of Congress
who seek to set a withdrawal timetable as part of a 100-billion-
dollar war funding package.


"I believe strongly that politicians in Washington shouldn't be
telling generals how to do their job. And I believe artificial
timetables of withdrawal would be a mistake," said Bush.


"An artificial timetable of withdrawal would say to an enemy,
'just wait them out.' It would say to the Iraqis, 'Don't do hard
things necessary to achieve our objectives.' And it would be
discouraging for our troops," he said.


"And, therefore, I will strongly reject an artificial timetable
withdrawal and/or Washington politicians trying to tell those who
wear the uniform how to do their job," said the US president.


Congressional sources said Friday that they expected the final
emergency spending bill to reach Bush's desk late this week with
language setting a withdrawal of combat forces in 2008 as a goal
-- not a requirement.


"I will, of course, be willing to work with the Congress, both
Republicans and Democrats, on a way forward," said Bush, but "no
matter how tough it may look ... for the Congress to micromanage
this process is a mistake."


He spoke as a string of bomb attacks in Iraq on Monday killed
more than 20 people and wounded dozens of others, one day after
insurgents killed 50 people and one week after a series of blasts
killed about 200 people.

