

UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon warned on Monday that developing
nations will suffer serious damage if the Doha global trade talks
do not succeed.


"Should this round of trade talks fail, serious damage will be
done to those who can least afford it," he said in the Gulf state
of Qatar at the start of a conference on development, democracy
and free trade.


"The global trading regime needs to create opportunties for the
poorest countries instead of leaving them at a disadvantage," he
told delegates including Qatar's Emir Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa
al-Thani, British former foreign secretary Jack Straw and South
Africa's former president FW De Klerk.


Six leading trade players vowed ealier this month in India to
speed up efforts to conclude the Doha round, aimed at lifting
millions out of poverty, and said they wanted a deal by the end
of the year.


Ministers from the United States, the European Union, India,
Brazil, Australia and Japan -- known as the G-6 -- said they
would work "with the entire WTO membership in the best interests
of completing the (Doha) round in the time envisaged."


"Everyone must redouble their efforts in the coming months to
ensure success," Ban said.


The Doha round, launched in 2001 in the Qatari capital, has
repeatedly missed deadlines as wealthy and developing nations
struggled to strike a deal on opening up trade in agricultural
products, industrial goods and services.


Developing countries are pushing the United States and other
wealthy nations to slash farm subsidies, while poorer states are
being squeezed to allow more access to their markets.


The G-6 meeting in India was the first time the leading trade
powers had met since the Doha discussions collapsed last July
when Washington refused to yield more ground in cutting farm
subsidies.

