

Directors at French construction group Eiffage on Monday
unanimously rejected a takeover offer from Sacyr Vallehermoso of
Spain and are to launch legal action over alleged "irregularities
resulting from concerted action" by Spanish shareholders, Eiffage
said.


The Eiffage board said Sacyr should file a new offer that is
"unconditional" and which is "at least equal to the highest
buying price" paid by recent purchasers of stock, "which is to
Eiffage's knowledge 129.3 euros a share."


Such a bid would be "in conformity with the general rules" of the
French stock market regulator, the AMF, Eiffage argued.


Sacyr has offered 12 of its own shares for five Eiffage shares,
which it says offers a 30.6 percent premium on the one-month
weighted average Eiffage price as of March 20.


Eiffage added that Sacyr's offer must "necessarily include an
element paid entirely in cash in view of the acquisition in cash,
over the past 12 months, of more than 5.0 percent of Eiffage's
capital by shareholders acting in concert."


The Eiffage board said it had decided to take legal steps,
accusing Spanish shareholders of "concerted action" without
declaring they had crossed certain thresholds in their combined
stakeholding.


Sacyr Vallehermoso is already the leading shareholder in Eiffage
with 33.32 percent of the capital and 29.0 percent of the votes.


The Spanish group on April 19 bid 6.5 billion euros (8.8 billion
dollars) for total control of Eiffage in a deal that would create
a European construction giant.


The bid would give rise to the fourth-biggest European civil
engineering and construction group, and "a major player in
construction in Europe," Sacyr chief Luis Del Rivero told a news
conference in Paris.


The bid is set to begin May 9 and run until July 2.

