

The dollar rose slightly against the euro on Monday in muted
trading as investors awaited key US economic indicators later
this week and mulled the outcome of the first round of
presidential voting in France.


In late trading on Monday, the euro eased to 1.3583 dollars, from
1.3590 dollars in New York late on Friday. The dollar stood at
118.59 yen, compared with 118.66 previously.


Analysts said the euro was largely unaffected by the first round
vote which put rightwinger Nicolas Sarkozy in pole position
heading into a run-off next month against socialist candidate
Segolene Royal.


"The first round does not appear to have had any impact on
euro/dollar, with the currency focusing on other factors," said
Calyon analyst Stuart Bennett.


However, he added: "One factor that could worry the market is the
criticism levelled at the ECB (European Central Bank) by both
Sarkozy and Royal.


"Both have suggested that the central bank should focus on jobs
and growth as well as inflation when setting policy."


The European single currency came within a whisker of an all-time
record last week as investors were lured by the increased chances
of higher eurozone interest rates, analysts said.


Some analysts said the euro remained set to beat its historic
record of 1.3666 dollars, which was set on December 30, 2004,
after reaching as high as 1.3637 dollars last week.


"On the basis that (we) expect continued weak economic data out
of the US during the course of the week, the underlying dollar
downtrend is likely to remain intact," said Commerzbank analyst
Gavin Friend.


"A test of the December 2004 high ... is only a matter of time."


Dealers expect this week's economic data to set the tone for the
near-term.


In the United States, March new home sales and durable goods
orders data are due out on Wednesday, while the initial estimate
of gross domestic product (GDP) growth for the first quarter to
March will be released on Friday.


The yen gained slightly on Monday after ratings agency Standard
& Poor's upgraded its long-term sovereign debt rating and
long-term senior debt rating for Japan to "AA" from "AA-" to
reflect "budgetary rehabilitation, monetary policy normalization
and visible progress in structural reforms."


"There was limited reaction to this potentially bullish news for
the yen," said Jeremy Bolton at Informa Global Markets.


Late on Monday, the euro was changing hands at 1.3583 dollars,
against 1.3590 dollars late Friday, 161.04 yen (161.27), 0.6785
pounds (0.6785) and 1.6418 Swiss francs (1.6420).


The dollar stood at 118.59 yen (118.66) and 1.2089 Swiss francs
(1.2082).


The pound was being traded at 2.0021 dollars (2.0026).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold eased to 688.70
dollars per ounce, from 691.40 dollars late on Friday.

