

Sri Lanka coach Tom Moody claims that unorthodox fast bowler
Lasith Malinga has one of the straightest arms in cricket and
said it's ridiculous to suggest the 23-year-old's action is
illegal.


Moody has even challenged those who doubt the legality of
Malinga's slingy, round-arm action, which he developed when
playing beach cricket with a soft ball, to test it out.


"He is so far from being someone who throws the ball it is
ridiculous," Moody told Sky Sports.


"Bowling from the position he bowls from, it is virtually
impossible to flex the elbow. In terms of most fast bowlers in
the world I think he would have the least amount of flexion.


"We welcome anyone to analyse it. I'd be interested to see if he
has one percent flexion, let alone the 15 that is allowed."


Malinga, nicknamed 'The Slinger' for his distinctive action, has
missed the last three World Cup matches because of an ankle
injury but will reclaim his place in the side for Tuesday's semi-
final against New Zealand at Sabina Park.


Moody, who won two World Cups as a player with Australia, has
steadfastly refused to get Malinga to alter an action that has
given him 15 wickets in six matches in the Caribbean, including a
hat-trick against South Africa.


"No, definitely not," Moody said when asked if he'd tried to
change Malinga's action.


"We have monitored it basically. He was brought up doing that on
the beaches.


"If we suddenly went to the MCC coaching manual and tried to get
him over the top and side on, he'd be playing third grade in some
competition in Sri Lanka and not being an impact bowler in
international cricket."

