

The United States has formally asked Iran about reports that a
retired FBI agent who disappeared during a visit to an Iranian
resort early last month has been secretly detained by agents of
the Islamic Republic, a senior official said Monday.


State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said a new note
concerning the disappearance of Robert Levinson was sent to Iran
via Swiss intermediaries over the weekend -- the fifth US request
for information on the missing American.


Iran has officially denied any knowledge of Levinson, but US
officials remain dubious, saying they have provided Iranian
authorities with the American's flight number and time of arrival
on the Iranian resort island of Kish -- a free trade area
Americans can visit without a visa.


Whereas US officials had previously declined to comment on press
reports that Levinson was arrested, possibly as a hostage to
obtain the release of five Iranians held by US forces in Iraq,
McCormack said the latest message specifically asked Iran to
investigate the possibility.


"There have been a lot of press reports suggesting he may have
been arrested by various factions of the Iranian security
apparatus," McCormack told reporters.


"At this point, I can't validate those press reports, but
certainly they raise questions in our mind about where exactly is
Mr. Levinson," he said.


"So we've gone back to the Iranian government ... and asked them
once again to do every possible check they can with their
security forces, with all their departments and provide us the
information where he is," he said.


"We've also asked a couple of European government last week to go
in and essentially knock on doors and see if they can get any
information about his whereabouts," he said.


Levinson, who retired from the FBI in the late 1990s, has been
working as a private consultant and was reportedly visiting Kish
to do research for a documentary film project.

