

The leading Dow Jones Industrial Average stock index's record-
breaking streak of last week was put on pause Monday as investors
awaited fresh economic news in coming days, traders said.


The benchmark Dow index closed down 41.58 points (0.33 percent)
at 12,919.40, after finishing at an all-time high of 12,961.98 on
Friday, marking its third straight record closing high.


The Dow had edged closer to 13,000 points in earlier trading
Monday, but failed to hold its gains.


The tech-rich Nasdaq composite closed down 2.72 points (0.11
percent) at 2,523.67 and the broad-market Standard and Poor's
lost 3.42 points (0.23) percent to a close of 1,480.93.


Analysts said the market was showing some consolidation after
last week's heady gains and ahead of fresh updates on new and
existing homes sales in coming days.


The US economy slowed last year amid a widespread housing slump
and investors are concerned about future growth, but most
investors had focused more on corporate earnings last week amid a
dearth of economic news.


Sentiment was helped, however, by merger news from the banking
sector involving major US and European banks.


Bank of America said it had agreed to buy LaSalle Bank from Dutch
banking giant ABN Amro for 21 billion dollars as part of a
related, but separate, larger deal by Britain's Barclays bank to
take over ABN Amro.


The LaSalle deal would significantly enlarge Bank of America's US
footprint and threaten Citigroup's dominant position as America's
biggest financial firm.


Bank of America's shares finished down 53 cents at 50.51 dollars
while ABN Amro's US-listed shares ended down 1.13 dollars at
48.16 dollars.


The takeover would mark the latest by Bank of America which has
expanded aggressively since chief executive Kenneth Lewis took
over the helm in 2001.


In other merger news, US biotechnology company MedImmune was also
in focus after Anglo-Swedish pharmaceuticals giant AstraZeneca
said it has agreed to buy the US firm for 15.6 billion dollars.


AstraZeneca, the third-biggest European drugs maker behind
GlaxoSmithKline and Sanofi-Aventis, said it hopes to wrap up the
deal by June.


MedImmune's shares rocketed 8.56 dollars, or over 17 percent, to
close at 56.57 dollars.


In other news, aerospace giant Boeing and Aviation Capital Group
said the big leasing firm had placed an order worth 1.6 billion
dollars for 20 new Boeing jets.


The deal includes 15 next-generation 737 jets and five 787, fuel
efficient, Dreamliner aircraft. Boeing had previously attributed
the hefty sales contract to an unidentified buyer.


Boeing's shares were up 35 cents at 93.64 dollars.


Market-watchers said investors would continue focusing on fresh
corporate earnings reports in coming days as well as economic
news including a reading of first quarter gross domestic product
(GDP).


Most economists expect US GDP growth to have cooled to 1.8
percent in the January-March period compared with a 2.5 percent
pace in the prior quarter.


Stocks had soared to record heights last week as investors
cheered generally robust earnings news from corporate America.


Bond prices strengthened in afternoon deals.


The yield on the 10-year US Treasury bond fell to 4.650 percent
from 4.672 percent late Friday while that on the 30-year bond
sank to 4.828 percent against 4.845 percent. Bond yields and
prices move in opposite directions.

