

EU regulators filed formal cartel charges on Monday against
unnamed companies making glass for car windows, taking the first
step in legal action that could lead to millions of euros in
fines.


The companies "may have allocated customers and agreed on supply
quotas and prices for most of the motor vehicle manufacturers in
Europe, thereby restricting competition," the European Commission
said in a statement.


The European Union's competition watchdog said that its
suspicions were founded on an investigation its trustbusters
carried out after launching inspections in February and March
2005.


Although the companies were not named, French glass maker Saint-
Gobain and British rival Pilkington, a subsidiary of Japan's
Nippon Sheet Glass, both confirmed that they had received charges
from the European Commission.


Under EU rules, the companies targeted by the regulators now have
two months to defend themselves in writing against the
accusations.


If regulators are not satisfied with the answers, they can slap
fines of up to 10 percent of the companies' worldwide annual
revenues.


EU Competition Commissioner Neelie Kroes has made a "no-
tolerance" crackdown on cartels a priority during her tenure as
Europe's top regulator and has lodged ever-rising record fines
against the illegal clubs.


Four months into the year, EU regulators have already set a new
annual record for fines in cartel cases with a total so far for
2007 of slightly over two billion euros.


Much of the total for this year came in February when the Dutch
commissioner slapped the biggest fine ever in a EU cartel case by
ordering leading lift makers to pay a combined 992 million euros
(1.3 billion dollars).


In recent months, her growing team has laid formal charges
against suspected cartels making professional-quality videotape,
building glass and bathroom fittings as well as bulk liquids
shippers.

