

British television broadcaster GMTV suspended its phone-in
quizzes Monday after a BBC investigative programme alleged that
callers to its premium-rate lines were being defrauded.


The claim is the latest in a long string British television
programmes accused of deceiving viewers through paid-for phone-in
competitions.


BBC television's investigative current affairs programme Panorama
said as many as half of the callers and texters to GMTV
competitions stood no chance of winning because shortlists of
potential winners were finalised "long before" they closed.


GMTV suspended all its phone-in quizzes, saying it "knew nothing"
of apparent irregularities by its telecom provider, Opera
Interactive Technology, and was "shocked to hear of these
allegations".


Panorama said tens of thousands of callers had been charged up to
1.80 pounds (3.60 dollars, 2.65 euros) to enter competitions,
though up to half had no chance of winning.


It estimated that callers had wasted 10 million pounds (20
million dollars, 14.75 million euros) a year since 2003 entering
GMTV's competitions.


Opera Interactive Technology said there was "not a shred of
truth" in the accusations.


Last month, programmes screened by a string of British channels
were under a cloud amid claims that they breached guidelines on
premium-rate phone lines to television shows.


Viewers were charged up to one pound (1.5 euros, two dollars) to
call the lines to take part in quiz shows, talent shows and
others.


One quiz channel was taken off air until further notice and
several programmes and competitions were suspended, while other
channels admitted that some callers had been overcharged.


Sir Alistair Graham, the chairman of the Icstis regulatory body
for premium rate services, said that police investigations could
follow the probe.

