

England coach Brian Ashton faces a selectorial nightmare for the
first Test with the Springboks in South Africa on May 26 after
both Wasps and Leicester reached the European Cup final.


The final is on May 20 which will mean Ashton having to do
without at least nine of the players that started the world
champions last Six Nations match against Wales as England's
director of rugby Rob Andrew has stated no player will play in
both matches.


Adding to Ashton's woes is that his former club Bath have also
reached the European Challenge Cup final against French side
Clermont, which is at Harlequins ground The Stoop on May 19.


England captain Phil Vickery admitted to mixed emotions after
Wasps' victory over Northampton meant he would play in the
European Cup final but miss the first Test.


"If (England coach) Brian Ashton had any hair left, he would be
pulling it out. It must be frustrating for him," said Vickery.


"It is disappointing for everyone - for South Africa, for
England. Good planning again from the people running the game,"
he added with heavy irony.


Andrew had made it plain earlier this month that there would be
no doubling up for the players.


"You can't prepare guys to play a Test at altitude in
Bloemfontein six days later (than the European Cup final). It's
not possible," said Andrew.


No decision has been taken yet about the availability of the
players for the second Test against South Africa on June 2.


The two-Test South Africa tour is part of England's preparations
for the World Cup defence in France which begins on September 7.


England have three other warm-up matches before the tournament
gets under way - against Wales on August 4 and against France on
August 11 and 18.

