

The Ethiopian government on Monday again accused Eritrea of
"terrorist activities" aimed at destabilising the region and of
orchestrating the kidnapping of a group of Europeans and their
Ethiopian guides.


In an information ministry statement, it "urged the international
community to condemn the ever-worsening terrorist activities of
the Eritrean regime, as the regime has become a threat to the
peace and stability of the sub-region".


"The Eritrean regime is engaged in terrorist activities to
destabilise the horn of Africa. The kidnapping of Europeans and
eight Ethiopians is a clear testimony (to) Eritrea's terrorist
act."


The statement was published a day after the Ethiopians, who were
abducted along with a British embassy-linked group on March 1 in
northeast Ethiopia, were released. The five Europeans were freed
after 12 days.


Ethiopia has repeatedly alleged that neighbouring Eritrea was
involved in the abductions, which were claimed by rebels in the
remote Afar region on the countries' border.


Asmara, which has strongly denied any connection with the
kidnappings, insisted earlier on Monday that the abducted
Ethiopians had never been in Eritrea.


"It was an Ethiopian matter, of Ethiopians being kidnapped by
Ethiopians," Information Minister Ali Abdu told AFP, adding that
"Eritrea had nothing to do with it".


Ethiopia and Eritrea fought a bitter territorial war between 1998
and 2000 and are still at odds over their unresolved border
dispute.

