

Microsoft responded on Monday to EU regulators' latest concerns
in their antitrust standoff with only hours to go before the
European Commission's deadline for the US software giant ran out.


The EU competition watchdog had given Microsoft until Monday to
answer its most recent antitrust concerns, threatening millions
of euros in daily fines if regulators were not satisfied with the
company's answer.


The Commission accused Microsoft in particular of charging too
much for licences for key information on its Windows operating
system other programmers need to make rival products as required
by a March 2004 EU antitrust decision.


"We continue to seek to resolve these recent issues," said
Microsoft general counsel Brad Smith said in a statement.


"We need greater clarity on what prices the Commission wants us
to charge, and we believe that is more likely to come from a
constructive conversation than from a formal hearing," he added.


In 2004, the Commission fined the US company a record 497 million
euros (674 million dollars) for abuse of its dominant market
position through its Windows operating system.


It also ordered the Microsoft to sell a version of Windows
without Media Player software and to divulge the software
protocols underpinning Windows for makers of rival products.


Microsoft challenged the 2004 ruling in the EU's second-highest
court last April and the judges are expected to hand down a
decision in the first half of this year.


Frustrated with this defiance, the Commission last July slapped
daily fines adding up to 280.5 million euros over the six-month
period of the penalty for failing to fully respect the antitrust
ruling.


Microsoft has paid that fine but is appealing against the
charges.

