

Syd Millar, president of rugby union's world governing body the
International Rugby Board (IRB), is to meet with the heads of
English Premiership clubs next Saturday to try and save next
season's European Cup it was announced on Monday.


The former Ireland rugby great announced this after meeting with
representatives of the French clubs, who along with their English
counterpart are intent on boycotting the competition next season
ostensibly because the English want to become shareholders in the
tournament.


The French, though, while claiming they are boycotting the
European Cup as they support the English stance are believed to
be more anxious over a fixture congestion following the World Cup
which France are hosting in September and October.


Despite an offer from the IRB that they could play their national
championships during the global showpiece - which they normally
do not sanction - the French turned it down because the
broadcaster with the rights to the domestic competition didn't
want that to happen as it would be missing a lot of its major
stars.


"We talked about all the relevant matters," said Bernard
Lapasset, president of the French Rugby Federation (FFR)
following the meeting between him, Millar and Serge Blanco,
president of the National Rugby League (LNR).


"We are going to make no comment before Syd Millar meets with the
English on Saturday."


Blanco had been subjected to a furious blast from Millar a couple
of weeks ago about his leading the boycott, with the former
France rugby legend firing back saying that the outburst was not
worthy of a man in Millar's position.

