

World oil prices advanced Monday as concerns increased over crude
production in Nigeria, the world's sixth biggest exporter of oil,
following disputed elections in the African country.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in June, jumped 1.78 dollars to 65.89 dollars per barrel
at the close.


In London, the price of Brent North Sea crude for June delivery
rallied 1.66 dollars to settle at 68.15 dollars per barrel.


Ruling party candidate Umaru Yar'Adua won Nigeria's presidential
election on Monday, even as foreign observers slammed the
credibility of the disputed poll that claimed at least 200 lives.


The national election commission declared Yar'Adua the winner
with 24.6 million votes, far ahead of his two main opposition
rivals.


Nigeria's main opposition parties immediately rejected the
victory on the grounds of rampant fraud and said they would take
the matter to court.


Just minutes after the announcement of Yar'Adua's victory, the
United States voiced deep concern at the violence and voting
irregularities that accompanied the election.


Phil Flynn at Alaron Trading said the elections "have been marred
with violence and rumors of vote fraud."


Flynn added that the failure of opposition parties to accept the
results "could lead to more violence and perhaps keep the oil
markets on guard."


Meanwhile, further supply fears were stoked in the Middle East by
Iran's rejection on Sunday of Western demands that the country
suspend its uranium enrichment program, which is a long-running
source of tension.


The latest development in the standoff has re-ignited fears that
Iran could use its status as the Middle East's second-largest oil
producer as leverage in the debate.


Traders were also awaiting US stockpile data due this Wednesday,
with analysts seeking confirmation that a recent pick-up in
refinery production has translated into rising US gasoline or
petrol reserves.

