

Southern African governments need to invest more in alternative
sources of electricity in the face of impending power shortfalls,
Zimbabwe's Energy Minister Michael Nyambuya said on Monday.


"What's happening is that the region has been expanding at an
average rate of three percent in terms of electricity demand but
we have not witnessed corresponding expansion in capacity
growth," Nyambuya told regional energy officials meeting in
Harare.


"That's why it's important to find new ways and means to generate
more electricity. We need more investment in the energy sector
and we must make use of renewable enery sources.


"We need a more radical approach to investment if we are to meet
the targets we have set ourselves in expansion of energy
resources. Pooling resources in regional investment is our best
option."


The meeting attended by officials from energy ministries and
chief executives from power utilities from the Southern African
Development Community (SADC) preceded a conference of energy
ministers opening in Harare on Tuesday.


The meeting comes against the backdrop of critical electricity
shortages in the region due to increased demand as urban
residential areas and industries expand while other countries are
extending power supplies to rural settlements.


In Zimbabwe, the shortfall often forces the power utility to
resort to scheduled power cuts lasting up to eight hours.


As a result of frequent power cuts, urban dwellers are turning to
firewood for cooking and heating.


Part of its supplies have come from neighbouring Zambia but the
government in Lusaka announced on Monday that its surplus
capacity is expected to run out by next year.


The officials were to discuss updates on on-going power
generation and rehabilitation projects as well as joint ventures
to cushion countries against the looming regional shortfall.

