

Three jailed members of the armed Basque seperatist group ETA
told the trial of 29 accused over the 2004 Madrid bombings on
Monday they played no role in the attacks which killed 191
people.


ETA members Henri Parot, Izkus Badillo and Gorka Vidal denied
knowing any of the mostly Moroccan accused or having ever used
the type of explosives which were employed in the bombings,
Spain's deadliest-ever such attack.


"I had nothing to do with that, not with the March 11 attacks nor
with Islamists," Vidal told the three-judge panel presiding over
the trial.


The former conservative government of prime minister Jose Maria
Aznar insisted in the immediate aftermath of the blasts that ETA
was responsible but evidence soon pointed to Islamic extremists
angered over Madrid's support for the US-led invasion of Iraq.


Three days after the bombings the Socialist Party scored a
surprise general election win and swiftly pulled Spanish troops
out of Iraq.


Aznar's Popular Party has since suggested that ETA may have
cooperated with the Islamists in preparing the attack, an
argument which is support by some sections of Spain's right-wing
media.


The prosecution alleges the bombings were carried out by an Al-
Qaeda-linked group of Moroccan origin without the support of ETA,
whose 38-year-old campaign for an independent Basque state has
claimed over 800 lives.


Two of the ETA members -- Vidal and Badillo -- were sentenced to
22 years in jail in February for transporting 500 kilograms of
explosives in a van just 11 days before the March 11, 2004 early
morning train bombings.


Parot, a French citizen, was jailed for an attack on a police
building in Zaragoza, Spain in which six adults and five children
died.

