

The Israeli army on Sunday denied it was seizing additional land
near Jericho in the occupied West Bank for the Jewish state's
controversial separation barrier.


According to a military order seen by AFP on Saturday, the army
told the village council in Bardaleh, north of Jericho, that
nearly 24 hectares (59 acres) of Palestinian farmland would be
confiscated "for security reasons" to extend the barrier, which
Israel says stops suicide bombers.


An army spokesman told AFP the order was not for seizure of new
land, but an extension of an order issued in 2004.


"The works for construction of the barrier in this sector are
finished. The confiscation order that we issued is nothing but a
renewal of one that we issued in 2004," he said.


"In those cases where the closures are provisional, the
confiscation orders have to be periodically renewed," he said.


He said those who own or use the land would be able to apply for
compensation beginning on Monday.


The Palestinian Authority on Saturday called on Israel to cancel
the order.


"We strongly condemn this decision and we call on Israel to
cancel it immediately," said Saeb Erakat, the chief Palestinian
negotiator.


Israel says the 700 kilometre (435 mile) long barrier, made up of
concrete walls and razor wire fences, is necessary to protect the
Jewish state against attacks.


Palestinians say the barrier is a land grab which eats up chunks
of their promised state, separates farmers from their land and
splits families.


The International Court of Justice, in a non-binding decision,
ruled the barrier illegal in 2004 but Israel has pressed on with
construction.

