

A soaring stock market has led to record-low interest among
Chinese savers for putting their money in bank accounts, state
media reported Sunday.


A new central bank survey showed an all-time high of 30.7 percent
of the public saw stocks as their most important financial asset
in the first quarter, up from 19 percent in the fourth quarter of
2006, the Xinhua news agency said.


By contrast, 59.4 percent of the public regarded bank deposits as
more important, the lowest level on record, according to the
survey, which was based on data collected from 20,000
respondents.


China's share prices on the key Shanghai index are up well over
200 percent since January last year, while on the Shenzhen
A-share market index, prices are up more than 280 percent.


In the first three months of the year punters in China opened
4.79 million new accounts, a 56-percent increase from the 3.08
million in the whole of 2006, the official Xinhua news agency
reported, citing government statistics.


Last week, the number of new accounts in China's two exchanges in
Shanghai and Shenzhen registered a record 252,000 new accounts in
one day alone, the China Securities Regulatory Commission said.


This marks a fundamental shift in the mentality of Chinese
savers, according to Huang Fuguang, a finance professor at
Tianjin-based Nankai University.


"Chinese people have always been keen on putting their money in
banks, but soaring housing prices and low interest rates have
made many realise that the yield on bank deposits is simply too
low", Huang told Xinhua.


"That's why people are turning to more lucrative investments,
like stocks and shares."

