

Hong Kong actor Chow Yun-fat, star of the global hit "Crouching
Tiger, Hidden Dragon", has backed a campaign to save a pier that
was a landing point for royalty during the colonial era, a media
report said Sunday.


Chow, dressed in a low-key baseball hat and tracksuit, visited
Queen's Pier early on Sunday morning as protesters led a vigil
against its demolition, the Sunday Morning Post reported.


The actor arrived in a mini-van in the early hours of the morning
as most of the protesters slept and signed a huge banner strung
across the condemned pier, which has become a symbol of the
city's dwindling architectural heritage.


The actor asked simply: "How are you guys doing? How long are you
going to stay here for?" the report said.


One of the protesters, Yip Po-lam told the Post: "We're
overwhelmed by his visit. He is an icon of Hong Kong, we grew up
watching his TV dramas."


Built in 1957, Queen's Pier, was closed on Thursday night and
will be demolished as part of a redevelopment plan that will see
a huge swathe reclaimed from the famous Victoria Harbour to make
way for a congestion-relieving bypass.


The pier has a colourful history. It was the landing point for
many a visit by the British royal family, including Queen
Elizabeth -- after whom the pier was named -- in 1975, and the
late Princess Diana in 1989.


It was also the ceremonial boarding point for visiting
dignitaries.


The once-nearby Star Ferry pier and clock tower were demolished
last month as part of the redevelopment plan criticised by
conservationists for blocking a huge part of the harbour from the
public.


Rows over the demolition sparked renewed concern for the fate of
Hong Kong's heritage buildings, which preservationists say are
being rapidly destroyed to make way for lucrative real estate
projects.

