

Iran's top national security official Ali Larijani is to visit
Baghdad for talks on this week's international conference on
Iraqi security, the foreign ministry spokesman said on Sunday.


"The visit of Mr Larijani is in the framework of bilateral
relations. He will probably talk about security questions and the
international conference" to be held in Egypt's resort of Sharm
el-Sheikh, Mohammad Ali Hosseini said.


Hosseini said the timing of the visit would be clarified "either
on Sunday or on Monday" without giving further details. State
television said Larijani would be leaving for Iraq on Sunday.


Iran has so far not announced whether it will attend the May 3-4
conference and Iraqi officials have been seeking to persuade
Tehran to take part.


Iraqi Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari held talks last week with
his Iranian counterpart Manouchehr Mottaki, and Iraq's Deputy
Prime Minister Barham Saleh was expected for more discussions in
Tehran later on Sunday.


"Taking into account the moves of the Iraqi officials, the
Iranian officials are following this question positively and our
position will be announced today or tomorrow," said Hosseini.


Iranian officials had expressed dissatisfaction about attending a
conference where world powers, including its arch foe the United
States, will be represented as well as the choice of the Red Sea
resort as the venue.


Iran would prefer the meeting to comprise only foreign ministers
from Iraq's neighbouring countries.


Tehran's attendance also appears to be complicated by the
continued detention by Washington in Iraq of five Iranian
officials it arrested in January on accusations of seeking to
stir trouble there.

