

A Singapore opposition politician on Sunday started his walk
across the city- state as part of his party's activities to
highlight the plight of Singaporean workers on May Day.


Chee Soon Juan, secretary general of the Singapore Democratic
Party (SDP), and his sister, Chee Siok Chin, began their walk
under the rain at a park bordering the financial district just
after 6:00 am (2200 GMT).


"It's very alarming that our workers can be paid the amount that
they are paid and ministers continue to lavish themselves with
such salaries," Chee told AFP before he began his walk.


"Workers here are still very much exploited," he added.


Wearing a T-shirt with the words "Walking For Our Workers" on the
back, Chee said he did not expect authorities to stop them, as
the walk involved less than five people.


Public protests of five or more people in Singapore require a
police permit.


The pair expect to complete the 150-kilometre (93-mile) journey
by Tuesday, which is international labour day, or May Day, Chee
said.


The city-state faces a widening income gap and pay hikes for
ministers and top civil servants, which take effect this month,
triggered a rare public outcry from normally reserved
Singaporeans.


The pay increase boosted Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong's annual
salary to 2.04 million dollars, five times more than the figure
US President George W. Bush earns and more than eight times the
salary of Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.


Chee is one of a few in Singapore to have spoken out against the
People's Action Party (PAP), which has ruled since 1959.


He was declared bankrupt early last year after being unable to
pay libel damages won by Singapore's founding father Lee Kuan Yew
and another former prime minister, Goh Chok Tong.

