

Government officials in China risk getting sacked if they use
their influence in favour of a lover or a mistress or become
involved in other forms of corrupt behaviour, state media said
Sunday.


A new 55-article regulation, scheduled to take effect on June 1,
details a variety of wrongdoings and is designed "to make sure
government officials perform their duty according to law," Xinhua
news agency reported.


A philandering policeman was jailed for life earlier this month
for taking five million yuan (625,000 dollars) in bribes so he
could lavish his six mistresses with cash and gifts.


Somewhat ironically for a set of rules aimed partly at curbing
nepotism, the regulation also warned officials against going too
far in neglecting their own kin.


The regulations make it possible to dismiss government officials
who abuse or abandon family members or refuse to support their
elderly relations, Xinhua said.


The regulation stipulates that government officials can be
demoted or fired if they "engage in corruption, organise
superstitious gatherings, use drugs, engage in the sex trade or
fail to fulfil their duties," Xinhua said.


Since none of these activities was permitted in the past, it
appeared that the new rules mainly just provided more detail than
previously about what is considered proper and improper official
behaviour.


Corruption and abuse of political power is a major source of
public discontent in modern China, and it is important for the
government to signal willingness to combat the problem at regular
intervals.

