

Estonia and Russia exchanged angry accusations Saturday after
riots sparked by the removal of a Soviet-era war memorial in
Tallinn left one Russian dead and hundreds injured.


The foreign ministries of the two countries traded heated
statements over the death of the Russian on Thursday night near
the statue of the Bronze Soldier in the Estonian capital Tallinn.


The Russian side said its countryman had been killed in rioting
that erupted Thursday when police tried to disperse a crowd which
had gathered at the Red Army memorial to protest against plans to
move it.


Moscow said Estonian police used "excessive force against
demonstrators defending a memorial to those who fought against
fascism."


The Estonians countered that the death was in "no way linked to
the activity of law enforcement officials" and said that hundreds
of youths who ran riot in Tallinn were vandalising shops and
businesses, not defending the war memorial.


Estonians see the bronze statue as a symbol of 50 years of Soviet
occupation following World War II, while Russians see it as a
sacred memorial to the millions of Red Army soldiers who died
fighting the Nazis.


The Estonian authorities removed the statue from the center of
Tallinn early Friday after the first night of deadly rioting.


Russian President Vladimir Putin voiced serious concern Saturday
over what he described as the "crisis situation" in Estonia,
while anti-Estonian sentiment surged in Moscow and other Russian
cities.


Estonian Foreign Minister Urmas Paet in turn said he was worried
about the welfare of Estonians in Russia, where newspapers were
running anti-Estonian editorials and the country's embassy
building in Moscow was defaced.


Paet said he had been "assured that Russia would fulfill its
obligations in ensuring the safety of all Estonian
representations in Russia.


"A day later, the wall of the Estonian Embassy in Moscow has been
desecrated," he said in a statement.


In Saint Petersburg 100 activists demonstrated outside the
Estonian consulate, shouting "No to fascism!" and "You can
destroy a monument but not a memory".


In the city of Pskov, 20 kilometres (12 miles) east of Russia's
border with Estonia, several dozen protesters brought an empty
coffin to the Estonian consulate, the Ria Novosti news agency
reported.


German Chancellor Angela Merkel's office said that she had urged
both Putin and Estonian Prime Minister Andrus Ansip to keep a lid
on the row by showing restraint and restoring parliamentary
contacts as soon as possible.


Boris Gryzlov, the speaker of Russia's lower house of parliament
or Duma, held out a possible olive branch when he announced that
a parliamentary delegation would travel to Estonia on Monday for
talks, the Interfax news agency reported.


The delegation will inform the Estonians about a resolution
passed in the Russian parliament on Friday condemning the removal
of the memorial as a "blasphemous violation" and will look at the
situation on the ground, Gryzlov said.


His counterpart in Tallinn, Ene Ergma, said Estonia would use the
visit to "dispel the misunderstandings" the Russians have about
the removal of the monument to "a more suitable location."


"Mr Gryzlov asked me today on the phone whether we have already
dismembered the monument," Ergma said.


"This is utter nonsense. The Estonian authorities have never
talked of demolishing the monument, we have always talked of
removing it and giving a dignified reburial to the remains of any
soldiers we find there," she said.


Excavation work has begun at the site in Tallinn where the Bronze
Soldier had stood for decades.


"If any remains are found they will be exhumed and reburied at
the military cemetery," Defence Minister Jaak Aaviksoo said after
an all-faiths religious service was held in the large white tent
put up at the site before the monument was moved.


Historians believe around a dozen soldiers could lie buried where
the monument had stood since the late 1940s.


Apart from the death of the Russian national, more than 153
people, including 29 police, were injured in the two nights of
rioting over the removal of the statue,  police said Saturday.


Some 800 people were detained in the riots, which have seen gangs
of youths rampage through Tallinn, smashing the windows of the
Art Academy, breaking into the National Theatre and looting
shops, police said.

