

Tobacco crops saved the struggling English settlers who arrived
in America 400 years ago, growing into a massively lucrative
industry that would eventually be linked to deadly lung cancer.


The first permanent English settlers in the New World were in
search of riches when they founded Jamestown on May 14, 1607, in
what would become the US state of Virginia. At first they found
only famine and disease.


One of the settlers, John Rolfe -- famous for marrying a Native
American chief's daughter named Pocahontas -- started growing
tobacco in 1612.


To please the palate of his English clientele, Rolfe imported
seeds from Bermuda to grow Nicotiana Tabacum, a milder leaf than
the bitter Nicotiana Rustica favored by the Chesapeake Bay
natives.


His first shipment to England in 1613 was a major success. This
lead to a growth in tobacco plantations that would dominate
Virginia's economy by 1622.


Tobacco even became currency used to pay fines or a dowry.


The crop also became linked to slavery as its cultivation
demanded a large workforce. In the Chesapeake Bay region alone,
the number of slaves grew from seven percent to 35 percent of the
population between 1690-1750.


The Revolutionary War that led the colonies to obtain
independence from Britain in 1776 was even called the "Tobacco
War" against the empire's taxes, and the debts American growers
owed English merchants.


The tobacco business grew further in the young United States with
the invention of cigarette rolling machines, an invention that
made James "Buck" Duke the country's top tobacco tycoon by the
late 1880s.


In 1900, Duke's American Tobacco Company in North Carolina
produced nine out of 10 cigarettes sold in the United States.


Lung cancer was a rare and almost unknown disease at the time,
with only 140 known cases in the world in 1889, according to
Tobacco.org, an independent information center on tobacco and
smoking issues.


Cigarette consumption grew during World War I, when the military
included Camels, Chesterfields and Lucky Strikes in the soldiers'
rations.


In 1938, a medical study by Johns Hopkins University sounded the
alarm, saying smokers do not live as long as non-smokers.


One year later tobacco giant Philip Morris published
advertisements saying its product is "recognized by eminent
medical authorities for its advantages to the nose and throat."


In the 1940s RJ Reynolds tobacco company even ran an ad campaign
claiming: "More doctors smoke Camels."


By 1949, one out of two American men was a smoker. Europe was
also a target: as part of the Marshall Plan, the United States
sent 93,000 tonnes of free tobacco to Germany.


Britain's King George VI, a heavy smoker, died of lung cancer in
1952, while several sensationalist articles denounced the dangers
of tobacco.


American manufacturers counter-attacked by forming in 1954 the
Tobacco Industry Research Council that launched filtered and
"light" cigarettes.


Meanwhile, lung cancer deaths soared among American men, from 1.7
in 100,000 in 1926 to 31 in 100,000 in 1956, according to the US
Census.


In 1957, the US surgeon general, Leroy Burney, declared that it
is the official position of the US health services that there is
a causal relationship between smoking and lung cancer.


Decades later, the industry that grew out of a small settlement
400 years ago would become embroiled in massive legal battles.


In 1998 US states won a landmark settlement worth 246 billion
dollars aimed at recovering the costs of treating smokers from
the tobacco industry.


US cigarette production peaked in 1996 when 755 billion
cigarettes were manufactured, a third of which were exported.
Last year, production totaled about 484 billion cigarettes,
according to the US Department of Agriculture.


More than 500,000 hectares of tobacco fields existed in the
United States in the 1950s, compared to 135,000 hectares today.
China has since become the world's biggest tobacco producer.

