

Pakistan's government has formed an investigation team to probe a
suicide blast targeting the interior minister which injured him
and killed 24 others, officials said Sunday.


Interior Minister Aftab Sherpao had just addressed a public
gathering in the town of Charsada in North West Frontier Province
(NWFP) bordering Afghanistan on Saturday when the bomber rushed
towards the stage and triggered a huge explosion.


"We have formed a joint investigation team comprising provincial
and federal police and investigation agencies to probe the
incident," NWFP chief minister Akram Durrani told reporters after
meeting Sherpao.


Sherpao, a staunch supporter of President Pervez Musharraf, has
been a prominent figure in touting the government's achievements
in the fight against terrorism.


"I was the target of this blast," he told national television.


The interior ministry said Sherpao was given first aid at a
hospital in Charsada and then taken to his Peshawar residence.


Officials said Sherpao was not injured badly and had travelled
again to Charsada on Sunday, where he attended the funeral
prayers of nine dead amid tight security.


NWFP, the home province of the ethnic Pashtun minister, has been
through years of violence in its semi-autonomous tribal areas,
where Pakistani forces are battling Al-Qaeda and Taliban
militants.


Saturday's bombing is the ninth in a series of suicide blasts
that have rocked Pakistan this year leaving scores of people
dead, including two in the capital, Islamabad, and others
targeting police and troops.


Authorities blamed most of the blasts on Pakistani Taliban
militants who were enraged by a military air strike on an alleged
Al-Qaeda training facility in the troubled South Waziristan
tribal area in January.


In November, a suicide bomber killed 42 soldiers at an army base
in Dargai, northwest Pakistan, again in apparent revenge for a
missile raid on an alleged terrorist camp.

