

Indian-born steel tycoon Lakshmi Mittal on Sunday again topped
the list of Britain's richest with a fortune estimated at 19.25
billion pounds (28.23 billion euros, 38.46 billion dollars).


The Sunday Times Rich List 2007 said that the combined wealth of
Mittal and the other richest 999 people amounts to just under 360
billion pounds, up from 301 billion pounds a year ago.


In the decade since Prime Minister Tony Blair came to power
promising greater fairness, the wealth of the top 1,000 has risen
by 260 percent, compared to average people whose wealth has
increased by 120 percent, it said.


Having bolstered his position by acquiring Arcelor, the world's
second-largest steel maker behind Mittal Steel, Mittal's fortune
rose sharply from last year's 14.88 billion pounds, the newspaper
said in its annual review.


Arcelor Mittal, as the combined business is known, produces 115
million tons of steel a year and accounts for about 10 percent of
the world market.


Following Mittal on the list is Russian entrepreneur and Chelsea
owner Roman Abramovich, who remained at number two while his
fortune also remained the same at an estimated 10.8 billion
pounds.


Though he may have suffered only a minor blow from his costly
divorce from ex- wife Irina, she is now 452 on the list with 155
million pounds.


Many of the billionaires in Britain are foreigners who have
chosen to make Britain their home, possibly for tax reasons. Only
three of the top 10 were born in Britain.


Just over 220 of the richest 1,000 have made their money from
property, with the Duke of Westminster leading the way at three
in the overall list, with a fortune of seven billion pounds.


Fourth on the list are Sri and Gopi Hinduja -- players in
industry and finance -- at 6.2 billion pounds.


The two new faces in this year's top 10 are Islamic art collector
David Khalili and businessman Jim Ratcliffe.


Khalili, an Iranian Jew now living in London, has helped gain his
5.8 billion pound fortune by amassing a huge collection of
Islamic art.


He has jumped from 99 in the list to number five.


Meanwhile Ratcliffe, ranked 10th this year, made his 3.3 billion
pound fortune by building a business empire dubbed the chemical
industry's "answer to Lakshmi Mittal."


Ranked sixth is packaging tycoon Hans Rausing at 5.4 billion
pounds, seventh are retailers Sir Philip and Lady Green, at 4.9
billion pounds, while eighth is shipping magnate John Fredriksen
at 3.5 billion pounds.


And ninth are metals and property moguls David and Simon Reuben,
at 3.49 billion pounds.


Sir Richard Branson, the airline and music mogul, saw his rank
drop from from ninth to 11th, despite a fortune of 3.1 billion
pounds.


Supermodel Kate Moss joined the top 100 richest women list with
wealth estimated at 45 million pounds.

