

Sri Lanka's president Sunday congratulated the national team's
World Cup effort and pledged to help the side prepare for the
future after their finals loss to Australia.


President Mahinda Rajapakse, who travelled to Barbados for the
finals match, said captain Mahela Jayawardene and his team mates
did a great job in the two- month tournament.


"I congratulate the captain and members of the Sri Lanka cricket
team on the success in finishing runners-up in the ICC World Cup
2007 tournament," he said in a statement.


"I take this occasion to renew my government's pledge to give all
assistance to the continued success of Sri Lankan cricket," the
president said, adding he wished the team success "in the days
ahead."


Just before the match got underway on Saturday in the Caribbean,
Rajapakse said over national television he believed Sri Lanka
would win the cup because they had a "balanced team."


In Sri Lanka, the game was marred after Tamil Tiger air attacks
on the capital during the match forced fans to flee their parties
for safety.


Fans dressed in the Sri Lankan team T-shirts and carrying the
national flag had earlier braved the rain to gather in their
hundreds at playgrounds, clubs, hotels and bars showing live
coverage of the match on giant screens.


The rebel Tamil Tigers have waged a campaign for a separate
homeland in Sri Lanka that has claimed more than 60,000 lives in
the past 35 years.


Australia won the World Cup for a record third successive time
when they completed a 53-run victory on Duckworth-Lewis method
against Sri Lanka in virtual darkness at the Kensington Oval on
Saturday.

