

Malaysia is concerned that foreign workers in the country are
fuelling the spread of tuberculosis to its citizens, a news
report said Sunday.


Foreign workers, both legal and illegal, account for 2.6 million,
or almost 25 percent of Malaysia's workforce, making it one of
the largest importers of foreign labour in Asia.


Chief executive of the Foreign Workers Medical Examination
Monitoring Agency Mohamed Ali Abu Bakar said many of the 1.3
million foreign workers who underwent health screenings last year
were found to have tuberculosis (TB), the Star daily reported.


"We've received various reports of foreign maids, for example,
who passed TB on to the children of their employers," Mohamed Ali
was quoted as saying by the newspaper.


"This alone gives us reason to regularly monitor and examine
foreign workers, as there is also the risk of them carrying other
diseases such as Hepatitis B and C, as well as HIV," he said.


Mohamed Ali said the agency was working with the Malaysian
Medical Association (MMA) to find ways to curb the spread of TB
as more workers arrived every year from Myanmar, China, Vietnam,
India and Indonesia.


Foreign workers are currently required to undergo three health
screenings while working here. However the MMA's private
practitioners' chairman, N.K.S. Tharmaseelan, said three
screenings over three years were insufficient to detect diseases.


"Many diseases lay dormant in the carrier until triggered by some
external factor. This is especially true for TB, which is why
foreign workers must regularly have checks," Tharmaseelan said.


In 2005, 1,766 TB cases -- or 11 percent of the total cases
detected in Malaysia -- were among foreign nationals, state
Bernama news agency reported, citing data from the Health
Ministry.

