

Taiwan President Chen Shui-bian on Sunday protested at the World
Health Organisation's rejection of the island's latest bid for
membership which had angered rival Beijing.


Chen on April 11 wrote to WHO director general Margaret Chan but
the WHO secretariat insisted the island was not a sovereign state
and not eligible to apply for membership of the international
body.


"Taiwan is a independent sovereign state and has the right to
join the WHO. Neither the WHO nor its director general have the
right to deny or strip the human rights of 23 million people,"
Chen told a seminar on the island's WHO efforts.


"The WHO secretariat has no right to unilaterally decide if
Taiwan is a sovereign state or if it is entitled to apply for WHO
membership," Chen said.


"Therefore, I, on behalf of the government and 23 million people,
am filing the strongest protest to the WHO secretariat."


Taiwan had launched a new bid to join the World Health Assembly,
the highest decision-making body of the WHO, and also apply for
WHO membership.


Since 1997, Taipei's annual attempts to win observer status at
the WHA as a "health entity" have been thwarted by Beijing, which
considers the island part of its territory awaiting
reunification.


Beijing on Wednesday denounced Taipei's new bid to join the WHO.


Despite the latest setback, Taiwan's diplomatic allies may raise
the issue at the upcoming WHA meeting in Geneva next month, said
health department official Chan Wu-hsiu.


Taiwan was evicted from the WHO in 1972, a year after losing the
"China" seat in the United Nations to Beijing.


Names and titles are highly symbolic issues in the row between
Taiwan and China, which split after the end of a civil war in
1949.


Only 24 countries maintain diplomatic relations with Taipei over
Beijing.

