

A young Australian diplomat was mauled by lions at a wildlife
park in Zimbabwe but survived because her boyfriend scared the
animals away, a report said Sunday.


Gemma Huggins, 27, was visiting the Lion and Cheetah park outside
Harare when a lion grabbed her by the head and shook her, The
Sunday Telegraph reported.


The diplomat, who had arrived in Zimbabwe on her first foreign
posting a month earlier, was lucky to survive after the lion's
teeth came within millimetres of her jugular vein, it said.


The paper said she was attacked by more than one animal.


Huggins was treated for severe injuries to her head, neck, torso
and legs and had several skin grafts at the Unitas Hospital in
Pretoria, South Africa, it added.


Australia's Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade confirmed
that a diplomat from the High Commission (embassy) in Harare had
been hospitalised after an unspecified incident at a wildlife
park.


Foreign Minister Alexander Downer said he would not discuss the
details of the case.


"I gather she is all right, and I'm obviously relieved that she's
all right, but she has asked for us not to publicise her case and
talk about the situation so I'll respect her wishes," he told
reporters in Adelaide.


The Sunday Telegraph said that Huggins, who was recovering at
home in Canberra after weeks of extensive treatment in South
Africa, was still too traumatised to speak about the March 4
incident.


Australia maintains diplomatic ties with Zimbabwe, despite being
an open critic of President Robert Mugabe and having imposed some
sanctions against his regime.

