

Canterbury Cathedral, the seat of the Church of England,
installed its first woman archdeacon in its 1,400-year history on
Saturday.


Before a congregation of 500, the archbishop of Canterbury, Rowan
Williams, led the service of installation for the Venerable
Sheila Watson, 53, the first woman to join Williams's senior
staff.


The former archdeacon of Buckingham in the Diocese of Oxford, who
succeeds the retired Patrick Evans, will now be able to enthrone
new diocesan bishops in 27 of England's 43 dioceses under
Williams's guidance.


The move comes as the Church of England takes the first steps
towards the creation of women bishops. The Church of England
ordained its first women priests in 1994.


Before the service, Watson said: "I feel enormously privileged to
be invited to join the team at Canterbury in both diocese and
cathedral.


"I have always loved the cathedral with all its historic
associations and I am greatly looking forward to getting to know
the people and churches of Kent," she said.


A graduate in classics at St Andrews University in Scotland, she
undertook a preparatory year of theology at Oxford. After 27
years of ministry she comes to Canterbury from northeast England,
London, Salisbury and Buckinghamshire.


"Being a priest is one of the most fascinating but sometimes one
of the most demanding jobs in today's society," Watson said.


"Being a Christian can be pretty tough too but it is really
exciting," she added.


The cathedral's history dates back to 597 AD when pope Gregory I,
or Gregory the Great, sent Augustine as a missionary to establish
his seat in Canterbury.


It famously saw archbishop of Canterbury Thomas Becket murdered
by loyalists to king Henry II and was the destination for 14th
century author Geoffrey Chaucer's pilgrims in his famous
"Canterbury Tales".


The worldwide Anglican communion numbers 77 million believers

