

Some 6.8 million Malian voters head to the polls on Sunday to
elect their next president from eight hopefuls, with the
incumbent viewed as the favourite to win in a country that has
made great strides in democracy since 1991.


Some 19,000 polling stations were to open from 8:00 am (0800 GMT)
to 6:00 pm (1800 GMT) in the largely desert west African country
of 13.5 million inhabitants.


Amadou Toumani Toure is standing for another five-year term as an
independent candidate, but is backed by two large coalitions and
a myriad of smaller parties.


The former general led the overthrow of dictator Moussa Traore in
1991, and installed a multi-party system before handing over
power to civilians. After retiring from the army, he stood for
and won the 2002 presidential elections.


Toure's main rival on Sunday is key opposition figure Ibrahim
Boubacar Keita, a former prime minister and head of the national
assembly.


Keita, who came third in the first round of the 2002 polls, is
part of a coalition that is fielding three other candidates in
Sunday's vote.


The four men have signed an electoral pact for the second round,
but many observers believe this is risky given the high chance
Toure will win on Sunday.


The main uncertainty in Sunday's election is how many of the
former French colony's 6.8 million potential voters will take
part -- in the last polls in 2002 and 1997, turnout was less than
25 percent.


More than 1,000 international observers are expected to attend
Sunday's vote, the electoral commission said.


Final results are expected on Wednesday or Thursday.

