

The Detroit Pistons led the way into the second round of the
National Basketball Association playoffs on Saturday with a 97-93
victory over the Orlando Magic.


Chauncey Billups and Richard Hamilton combined to score Detroit's
final 12 points as the Pistons completed four-game sweep of the
Magic in their best-of- seven Eastern Conference first-round
series.


The Pistons, top seeds in the East, posted their first four-game
sweep in 18 years.


The last time they accomplished the feat was against the Los
Angeles Lakers in the 1989 NBA finals.


The following season, the Pistons beat Indiana 3-0 in a best-of-
five first-round series.


Detroit now await the winner of the series between Chicago and
defending NBA champions Miami.


The Bulls have the Heat on the ropes at 3-0 and can close out the
series on Sunday.


Later Saturday, the Cleveland Cavaliers were trying to take a 3-0
lead over the injury-depleted Washington Wizards.


It looked like the Pistons might have to return home for game
five when Orlando led 85-80 after Grant Hill's dunk with 3:18 to
play.


The Pistons took a timeout after Hill's basket and promptly
started to take control.


Rasheed Wallace hit a 3-pointer to start a 9-1 run by Detroit.
Hamilton posted up Jameer Nelson and hit a turnaround in the lane
to give Detroit an 87-86 lead with 1:39 to play. Billups capped
the run with a layup 24 seconds later to make it 89-86.


The Detroit backcourt duo combined to make six free throws in the
final 20 seconds to seal the victory.


Magic All-Star Dwight Howard had been muted by the Detroit's
front line in the first three games of the series, averaging just
10.7 points while being double- and triple-teamed.


He got loose for 29 points and 17 rebounds and Hill added 17
points.


The only team below .500 to make the playoffs, the Magic have
lost seven straight playoff games - all to Detroit - dating to
2003.

