

Tony Blair marks 10 years as British prime minister on Wednesday.
Here are the key dates in his premiership:


1997


-- May 2: Labour Party wins the general election victory with a
majority in the lower House of Commons of 179. At 43, Blair
becomes the youngest British prime minister since 1812.


-- May 6: Britain's central bank, the Bank of England, given the
power to set interest rates.


-- May 12: foreign secretary Robin Cook says British foreign
policy will have an "ethical dimension".


-- August 31: Blair takes the lead after the death of Diana,
Princess of Wales, calling her "the people's princess".


1998


-- April 10: Good Friday peace accord signed, allowing power-
sharing between Protestants and Catholics in Northern Ireland,
decommissioning of paramilitary weapons and the release of
terrorist prisoners.


1999


-- March 24: Britain joins NATO air strikes against Serbia in
Kosovo.


-- May 26: the devolved Welsh Assembly opens in Cardiff.


-- July 9: the Scottish Parliament opens in Edinburgh for the
first time since 1707.


2000


-- May 20: Blair becomes the first British prime minister for
more than 150 years to become a father in office when wife Cherie
gives birth to their fourth child, Leo.


-- September 8: lorry drivers block oil refineries over high fuel
prices, bringing Britain to a standstill.


2001


-- February 20: foot and mouth disease outbreak confirmed.


-- June 8: Labour wins a second term with a majority of 167.


-- September 11: attacks on the United States. Blair gives
Washington London's support.


-- October 7: British troops take part in the US-led, NATO-backed
military action against the Taliban and Al-Qaeda in Afghanistan.


2002


-- October 14: London resumes direct control of Northern Ireland
after allegations of a republican spy-ring operating in the
Belfast assembly.


2003


-- February 16: an estimated one million people protest on the
streets of London in the biggest march in British history against
war in Iraq.


-- March 18: parliament backs sending British troops to Iraq.


-- March 21: US-led invasion of Iraq begins.


-- May 26: BBC radio claims the government exaggerated
intelligence claims about Iraq's weapons of mass destruction, the
basis for going to war.


-- July 17: British weapons expert David Kelly, the source for
the BBC report, commits suicide.


2004


-- January 28: government-commissioned Hutton inquiry exonerates
Blair's administration over events leading to Kelly's death and
severely criticises the BBC.


-- October 1: Blair says the 2005 general election will be his
last, but he intends to serve a full third term.


2005


-- May 5: Labour wins a third term with a much-reduced majority
of 66.


-- July 6: London wins the 2012 Olympic Games.


-- July 7: 56 people are killed and more than 700 injured when
four suicide bombers blow themselves up on London's public
transport system.


2006


-- March 21: Police begin the "cash for honours" inquiry into
whether political parties accepted loans from wealthy donors and
then nominated them for seats in the unelected upper House of
Lords.


-- September 7: Blair is forced into saying he will step down
within a year after Labour opposition to his stance over Israel's
bombing of Lebanon.


-- December 14: Blair quizzed by police over the "cash for
honours" affair, making him the first serving prime minister to
be questioned as part of a criminal inquiry.


2007


-- January 26: Blair interviewed for a second time about the
"cash for honours" affair.


-- March 29: parliament applauds Blair for deal to restore power-
sharing in Northern Ireland.

