

Here are key facts and figures on Delta Air Lines, the third
largest US airline, set to emerge from 19 months of bankruptcy
protection:


- The airline traces its roots to Delta Air Service created in
1928 in Mississippi, founded by C.E. Woolman and with its
inaugural flight on June 17, 1929. The chief executive since 2004
has been Gerald Grinstein.


- Delta lost 130 million dollars in the first three months of
2007. In 2006 it posted a net loss of 6.2 billion dollars,
including 5.4 billion in reorganization costs.


- Revenues for the first quarter were up 11 percent at 4.1
billion dollars. For 2006, turnover was up six percent at 17.1
billion.


- Delta has cut some five billion dollars from annual operting
costs from a base in 2002, including concessions on pay and
benefits from pilots and other employee groups.


- Delta had a total of 47,000 employees at the end of April,
including 6,000 pilots, compared with a workforce of 66,500 in
October 2005.


- The third largest US airline, Delta serves some 307
destinations in 52 countries. In 2006, Delta increased
international flights by some 20 percent and expects to continue
the trend in 2007. Last year, Delta generated 35 percent of its
revenues from international flights.


Overall, the airline served 106.8 million passengers in 2006,
compared with 11 million in 2004.


- Delta operates 475 aircraft, down from 535 in October 2005. It
is set to receive 10 Boeing 757 jets this year and one Boeing 777
in 2008. Most of its planes are made by Boeing, with none coming
from European manufacturer Airbus.

