

Lorena Ochoa, newly installed as the world No. 1 of women's golf,
worked her way into a share of the lead Saturday in the 1.3
million-dollar Corona Championship.


"Today I started with a birdie and had another birdie on the
fourth hole and an eagle on the fifth hole," Ochoa said. "Five
was very important to build momentum. It changed everything."


Ochoa carded a nine-under-par 64 on the Tres Marias course - 10
better than her Friday score - to join Paraguay's Julieta Granada
and Italy's Silvia Cavalleri atop the leaderboard on 13-under
206.


Granada shot a 67 while Cavalleri posted a 69.


"Lorena is a favourite I know, but the ball is round. She has the
pressure and I will try to play well," Cavalleri said. "I am very
happy and I feel confident for (Sunday)."


Ochoa, the 2006 LPGA Player of the Year, is trying to make her
first successful title defence.


She wasted no time getting back on track Saturday, picking up
three strokes on her first five holes and adding another birdie
at the seventh.


She had five birdies coming in to put herself in position to
battle for a title on home soil on Sunday.


American Pat Hurst (68) and South Korea's Na On Min (67) were a
shot off the lead at 12-under 207.


Playing in her home country, Ochoa could be putting a cap on a
big week.  She took over the top spot in the world rankings on
Monday with 12.84 points, 0.14 ahead of longtime No. 1 Annika
Sorenstam, who is sidelined with a back injury.


"I played well, It was amazing. I'm really happy," Ochoa said.
"Hopefully I get the same feeling as today on Sunday. Get some
good momentum and hopefully I'll get a couple birdies on the
first two holes and it should be a good day."

