

Sri Lanka were 188-5 after 30 overs in the World Cup final
against Australia at Kensington Oval on Saturday chasing 269 to
win.


Chamara Silva was on 21 while Tillakaratne Dilshan was run out on
the last ball of the 30th over for 14.


Upul Tharanga was the first man out caught behind by Adam
Gilchrist off Nathan Bracken for six with the total on seven in
the third over.


Kumar Sangakkara, who added 116 with Sanath Jayasuriya for the
second wicket to give Sri Lanka hope, was next man out for 52 of
54 balls when he was caught by Australia skipper Ricky Ponting
off Brad Hogg in the 20th over.


Jayasuriya, Sri Lanka's main hope of an unlikely win, was clean
bowled for a fine 63 off 67 balls by Michael Clarke with the
score on 145 in the 23rd over.


A brief rain delay saw the target reduced to 269 off 36 overs
and, with Sri Lanka falling behind the rate, skipper Mahela
Jayawardene was next to go lbw to Shane Watson for 19 with the
total at 156 in the 26th over.


Earlier, Gilchrist lived up to his billing as the most dangerous
one-day international batsman in the game with a record-breaking
149 as Australia piled up 281 for four.


Gilchrist's was the highest individual innings in a final,
surpassing the 140 not out made by Ponting against India in
Johannesburg four years ago.


In all, Gilchrist faced just 104 balls with eight sixes and 13
fours as Australia set a daunting target in a match reduced to 38
overs a side because of rain.


Gilchrist, dropped on 31, and fellow left-hander Matthew Hayden's
stand of 172 was a new first-wicket record for a World Cup final,
surpassing the 129 shared by England's Mike Brearley and Geoff
Boycott during West Indies' 92-run win at Lord's in 1979.


It was the perfect platform for Australia as they set about
winning an unprecedented third straight World Cup and fourth in
all in a match reduced to 38 overs a side after rain delayed the
start.

