

Sri Lankan troops fired anti-aircraft guns in the capital early
Sunday amid reports that Tamil Tiger rebels had entered the
city's airspace, officials and residents said.


Troops manning key positions in the capital lit up the night sky
with a massive barrage of anti-aircraft fire that shook homes and
caused panic, residents said.


Security forces also fired tracer bullets into the air after
suspected Tamil Tiger aircraft were reportedly spotted flying
towards the capital.


Officials said military units at key power stations, oil storage
facilities, a domestic airport and the city centre opened fire
with their high-calibre anti- aircraft guns.


Authorities responded to reports of approaching rebel planes by
switching off the electricity supply to the capital as millions
of Sri Lankans watched their side play Australia in the cricket
World Cup final.


"We are doing a search and that is why you are experiencing a
power cut," air force spokesman Ajantha Silva said. He said he
had no information about Tiger aircraft.


Sri Lankan ordered a similar blackout Thursday after radar
spotted unidentified aircraft within the air space of the
island's only international airport, according to the defence
ministry.


Sri Lanka's state-run television station had earlier said more
than 14 million of the island's 19.5 million population were
expected to watch the live broadcast of the finals.


Cricket is hugely popular in Sri Lanka and is seen as one of the
few unifying elements to cut through political and ethnic lines
amid escalating fighting between troops and Tamil Tiger rebels.

