

It may have rained sixes and fours in the World Cup final between
Australia and Sri Lanka here, but the tournament still awaits the
first really competitive finale in more than a decade.


It was not difficult to spot the winners after Australian opener
Adam Gilchrist hammered a Cup-final record of 149 in his team's
281-4 in the rain-hit final at Kensington Oval here on Saturday.


Man-of-the-match Gilchrist smashed his captain Ricky Ponting's
record of 140 in the final, against India in the 2003 edition in
South Africa. He cracked eight sixes and 13 fours in his 104-ball
knock.


Sri Lanka were restricted to 215-8 while chasing a rain-revised
target of 269 off 36 overs to lose by 53 runs in a game in which
they matched Australia only when Sanath Jayasuriya (63) and Kumar
Sangakkara (54) were at the crease.


It all began when middle-order batsman Aravinda de Silva smashed
a brilliant unbeaten century to steer Sri Lanka to a seven-wicket
victory against Mark Taylor's Australians at Lahore in Pakistan
in 1996.


Australia ruled the next three World Cups in England, South
Africa and the West Indies, giving no chance to their opponents
in the finals.


Pakistan were the first victims when they lost by eight wickets
against Steve Waugh's Australians who finished the 50-over final
in the 21st over at Lord's in 1999 after a superb spell from leg-
spinner Shane Warne.


Warne grabbed four wickets to restirct Pakistan to a modest 132
before Gilchrist finished the match with a half-century.


Ponting hijacked the 2003 final against India at Johannesburg as
he smashed an unbeaten 140 to set up a 360-run target, which
always looked beyond Sourav Ganguly's side.


Fast bowler Glenn McGrath grabbed three big wickets to play a big
role in dismissing India for 234 in the 40th over.


But Australia were also involved in two memorable finals.


The first came at Lord's in 1975 when they lost to the West
Indies by 17 runs and the other at Calcutta in 1987 when they
defeated England by seven runs.


The Lord's final will always be remembered for Australia's never-
say-die spirit as they were struggling at 233-9 chasing a
challenging West Indies' total of 291 in a 60-over final.


The last-wicket pair of Dennis Lillee and Jeff Thomson brought
their team closer to victory with their gutsy stand before
Thomson became a run-out victim in the penultimate over.


The West Indies were comfortable winners by 92 runs in the 1979
Cup final against England after scoring 286-9, thanks to a superb
unbeaten century from Viv Richards.


England were all out for 194 despite half-centuries from openers
Mike Brearley and Geoff Boycott.


India denied the West Indies a hat-trick after surprisingly
winning by 43 runs in a final of fluctuating fortunes in 1983.


The West Indies were expected to win the match after restricting
India to a modest 183, before collapsing to 140 against a
disciplined seam-swing attack.


The 1987 World Cup also threw up a surprise winner in Australia
after a closely- contested final.


Allan Border's Australians scored 253-5, a total which never
looked safe against England till skipper Mike Gatting's reverse-
sweep which led to his team's defeat by seven runs.


England were again involved in an engrossing final, this time
losing to Pakistan by 22 runs in Australia in 1992. And this was
the last time the finalists looked evenly matched.

