

European stock markets rallied on Thursday, as oil prices cooled
and amid fresh takeover talk and positive company earnings,
dealers said.


In late morning trading, London's FTSE 100 rose by 0.60 percent
to 6,304.80 points. Frankfurt's DAX 30 index of leading shares
climbed 0.73 percent to 6,866.72 points and in Paris the CAC 40
dropped 0.81 percent to 5,597.80 in early afternoon trade.


The DJ Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone blue chip shares advanced
0.75 percent to 4,159.06 points at the half-way stage.


The euro stood at 1.3342 dollars.


Europe's main indices had slid Wednesday owing to surging crude
oil prices, which increase companies' costs, and comments by Fed
chairman Ben Bernanke, who said that the outlook for the
depressed US housing market was "uncertain."


World oil prices dipped slightly on Thursday after recent heavy
rises caused by escalating tensions between Iran, the world's
fourth biggest producer of crude, and the West.


US shares fell heavily Wednesday on US economic concerns. Surging
world oil prices also hammered stocks amid geopolitical concerns
related to Iran and Tehran's holding of 15 British military
personnel seized in the Gulf.


Japanese share prices closed almost flat Thursday, coming off
early lows as investors remained cautious ahead of a raft of data
on the US and Japanese economies, dealers said.


In London Tate & Lyle headed the FTSE 100 in morning trade,
jumping 6.06 percent to 577.5 pence after the sugar manufacturer
said its trading data was in line with market expectations.


Compass also rose strongly, winning 5.39 percent to 337.25 pence,
as a better- than-expected update from the world's biggest
catering company added to fresh rumours of predatory interest
from a financial buyer in the Middle East.


In Madrid, Altadis gained a modest 0.73 percent to 48.10 euros,
as takeover talk surrounding the Franco-Spanish tobacco group
intensified. Madrid's IBEX-35 index climbed 0.44 percent to
14,547.40 points.


The Times of London had reported British American Tobacco was
thought to be in talks with CVC Capital, Cinven and PAI over a
possible bid for Altadis.


Santander analysts said the entry of BAT into the arena "would be
the best case scenario for Altadis."


The Spanish broker said a bidding war for the group is positive
"at a time when the sector seems to be driven by speculation more
than by fundamentals."


Earlier, El Pais reported that the only remaining stumbling block
to Imperial Tobacco Group attempted takeover of Altadis was
uncertainty surrounding the role of Altadis's management in the
merged company.


BAT won 1.85 percent to 1,599 pence and Imperial Tobacco climbed
1.52 percent to 2,278 pence in London.


In New York on Wednesday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average closed
down 0.78 percent at 12,300.36 points. The Nasdaq composite
finished 0.83-percent lower at 2,417.10 points and the broad-
market Standard and Poor's 500 dropped 0.80 percent to 1,417.23.


On Thursday in Asia, the Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index
of leading shares closed flat at 17,263.94 points.


Hong Kong's key Hang Seng Index rose 1.37 percent to 19,821.78
points on a technical rebound after two days of falls, with CNOOC
and China Unicom posting steep gains ahead of their 2006 results,
dealers said.

