

Indonesia reopened its border with East Timor on Thursday because
the fugitive rebel who caused its closure is no longer considered
a threat, an official said.


"As of today our border is reopened," Indonesia's Ambassador to
East Timor Ahmed Bey Sofwan said on Thursday, just over a month
after the crossing, a key supply link, was shut.


Dili asked for the border to be closed to stop renegade soldier
Major Alfredo Reinado and his armed supporters escaping into
Indonesia.


But President Xanana Gusmao wrote to his Indonesian counterpart
saying Reinado no longer posed a threat to East Timor or border
security, Sofwan said.


Gusmao had accused the rebel, a persistent problem for troubled
East Timor, of stealing weapons from police posts along the
crossing.


Indonesian commander Lieutenant Colonel Hotma Hutahaean said his
country had deployed 1,000 soldiers along the border to maintain
security.


The border's closure interrupted the movement of supplies into
impoverished East Timor, which on April 9 holds its first
presidential poll since achieving independence from Indonesia in
2002, after 24 years of occupation.


Reinado has been criticised for his role in unrest in East Timor
last year that killed 37 people, forced 150,000 to flee and led
to the dispatch of Australian- led international peacekeepers to
stabilise the fledgling state.


Australian troops attacked Reinado's hideout earlier this month
but failed to capture the rebel, who has refused to surrender to
the international force.


The troops launched an ongoing manhunt after the failed
operation, amid fears that Reinado's supporters could trigger
unrest around the April 9 poll in the former Portuguese colony.

