

Japanese share prices closed almost flat Thursday, coming off
early lows as investors remained cautious ahead of a raft of data
on the US and Japanese economies, dealers said.


They said that an overnight selloff on Wall Street weighed on
sentiment initially but worries about the impact on Japanese
exporters of a stronger yen eased after the dollar staged a
modest rebound.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
rose 9.21 points to 17,263.94. The TOPIX index of all issues on
the Tokyo Stock Exchange's first section eased 0.38 points or
0.02 percent to 1,710.68.


Decliners beat gainers 872 to 717, with 133 stocks unchanged.


Turnover reached 2.34 billion shares, up from 2.24 billion on
Wednesday.


On Wall Street, the Dow Jones index fell 0.78 percent on
Wednesday after US Federal Reserve chief Ben Bernanke told
Congress the outlook for the depressed housing market was
uncertain and that inflation was still a concern.


"The biggest interest shown by investors at the moment is in the
US as softer US demand could hurt the earnings of Japan's major
exporters and a weaker Wall Street may dampen offshore investors'
appetite for Japanese stocks," said Tatsuo Kurokawa, a strategist
at Japan Asia Securities.


The market is awaiting a slew of Japanese economic indicators on
Friday including inflation, unemployment and industrial output,
while a final estimate of US fourth quarter economic growth was
due later Thursday


Utilities led the gainers. Tokyo Electric Power rose 100 yen or
2.44 percent at 4,190 and Kansai Electric Power firmed 60 yen or
1.71 percent to 3,560.


Sanyo Electric jumped 18 yen or 9.63 percent to 205 after the
ailing electrical equipment company replaced its president
Toshimasa Iue -- a member of the founding family -- with
executive officer Seiichiro Sano.


Other techs were mixed to lower. Hitachi was up 23 yen or 2.53
percent at 933, while Sony was down 100 yen or 1.64 percent at
5,980 and Matsushita Electric Industrial shed 20 yen or 0.83
percent to 2,395.


Oki Electric gained 28 yen or 13.93 percent to 229 after a
newspaper reported that the company would restructure its
operations, dealers said.


On the foreign exchange market, the dollar firmed to 117.17 yen
in Tokyo afternoon trade from 116.85 in New York late Wednesday.


The euro rose to 1.3320 dollars from 1.3312 and to 156.06 yen
from 155.50.

