

Ethiopia's Prime Minister Meles Zenawi said Thursday he had
withdrawn two-thirds of his troops from neighbouring Somalia, as
those remaining launched an offensive in Mogadishu.


"Ethiopia has no intention of staying in Somalia, nor is it
interested in peacekeeping," Meles said in a speech to
parliament.


"Our mission was to destroy the fundamentalist threat posed on us
and we have succeeded in achieving this," he said, as Ethiopian
helicopters and tanks launched an offensive in southern
Mogadishu, sparking fighting with insurgents in which at least 10
civilians died.


Meles said that two-thirds of the Ethiopian deployment, which
helped Somali troops drive out Islamists from south and central
Somalia three months ago, had now been withdrawn.


"As the situation in Somalia unravelled differently than
expected, we had to withdraw troops gradually in two rounds.
Hence, two-thirds of our troops have been withdrawn so far," he
said.


But he said a second round of withdrawal had been delayed.


"The second round of withdrawal was delayed because the African
Union's deployment of peacekeepers has not taken place as
desired."


A small force of some 1,500 African Union troops from Uganda is
currently deployed at strategic points around Mogadishu, but the
AU has not yet gathered some 8,000 troops planned for its
peacekeeping force.


"We have managed to restrict the number of (Ethiopian) troops in
Somalia, and their role is also restricted to training and
strengthening the transitional government's troops," Meles said,
despite the morning offensive by Ethiopian troops.


"Ethiopia has clarified to all aggressors that it has the
capacity to stand firm against any form of aggression."


Two Ethiopian helicopters fired missiles on southern Mogadishu
Thursday after heavy fighting with insurgents, breaking a shaky
six-day old ceasefire.


Ethiopian tanks deployed into southern neighbourhoods late
Wednesday before launching Thursday's offensive.

