

Australian share prices closed 0.64 percent higher Thursday as
investors shrugged off Wall Street weakness and took inspiration
from generally firmer Asian markets, dealers said.


They said a rebound in Tokyo from sharp early losses, after
comments from US Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke appeared
to rule out any early cut in interest rates, helped steady
sentiment here.


The benchmark SP/ASX 200 was up 37.7 points at 5,960.9 while the
broader All Ordinaries index rose 32.4 points to 5,945.7.


Turnover was 1.58 billion shares worth 6.5 billion dollars (5.2
billion US), with rises outnumbering falls 631 to 552 and 377
stocks unchanged.


"Solid weakness in the morning (and then) dragged up by the Asian
markets, especially Tokyo, later in the day," said MAN Financial
broker Anthony Anderson.


"In reality we are more influenced by Asian markets, relying more
on our neighbours and trading partners than the US."


Dealers said investors followed the lead of large funds seen as
squaring positions in the futures market ahead of the end of the
March quarter on Friday.


Bell Potter Securities private client advisor Stuart Smith said
book squaring and competition between funds to balance portfolios
for the reporting period supported the wider market higher.


"The bullish thing is that June futures are around 50 points
above the physical market. We haven't seen that for quite some
time so this would likely indicate overall bullishness ahead,"
Smith said.


"Maybe the futures are anticipating lots of money coming into the
market for super (pension) fund investment," the advisor added.


Dealers said Qantas Airways ended little changed despite large
hedge fund activity surrounding the flag carrier's 5.45 dollar
private equity takeover bid from Airline Partners Australia.


Nearly five percent of the airline's issued capital changed
hands. Qantas was steady at 5.19 dollars.


National Australia Bank added 0.03 at 40.15, Commonwealth Bank
rose 0.20 to 50.10, ANZ jumped 0.51 to 29.85 and Westpac gained
0.46 to 26.35.


Telstra advanced 0.09 to 4.60, its T3 receipts added 0.06 to 3.13
while SingTel gained 0.02 to 2.65.


BHP Billiton climbed 0.33 to 29.82 but Rio Tinto fell 0.12 to
78.18.


TEN Network ended down 0.03 dollars at 3.13 despite New York
private equity firm Blackstone Group is in talks to acquire the
the media stock's majority shareholding from Canada's CanWest
Global Communications Corp.


Flight Centre 0.86 or 5.64 percent to 16.11 after a fresh
ownership proposal from private equity group Pacific Equity
Partners.

