

China on Thursday rejected as "totally wrong" calls for a boycott
of the Beijing Olympics over its support for Sudan's government,
which is accused of involvement in genocide in its Darfur region.


"People who try to connect the Olympics with Darfur in an attempt
to win ballots or increase their prestige or reputation are
totally wrong on that scheme," foreign ministry spokesman Qin
Gang told a regular media briefing.


French centrist presidential candidate Francois Bayrou last week
called for a boycott of the 2008 Games over allegations Sudanese
government-backed forces were carrying out genocide in Darfur.


US actress and UNICEF goodwill ambassador Mia Farrow also said in
a Wall Street Journal commentary this week that the Beijing Games
would become known as the "Genocide Olympics".


"We don't think its appropriate to connect the Darfur issue with
the Olympic Games in Beijing and we don't think it will be
popular with people around the world," Qin said.


"We are confident we will hold a successful and high-quality
Olympic Games."


Fighting between rebels and armed pro-government groups in Darfur
has killed 200,000 people and displaced more than two million in
the past four years, according to the United Nations.


The Khartoum regime stands accused of genocide by Washington for
its repression of the rebellion. It has consistently rejected the
deployment of a UN peacekeeping force to stem the bloodshed.


China is one of Sudan's most important international allies,
buying around 60 percent of the African nation's oil exports, and
has used its UN Security Council veto to block moves condemning
Khartoum.


"China hopes the Darfur region can realise peace and stability.
On this issue, China shares the same goal as the international
community and is making unremitting efforts to this end," Qin
said.


Chinese President Hu Jintao visited Sudan in February, but
disappointed observers said he applied only mild pressure on
Khartoum to reform.

