

New Australian media laws expected to spark a wave of takeovers,
mergers and foreign investment will come into effect next week,
the government announced Thursday.


The changes reform Australia's restrictive media ownership laws
while ensuring a diverse and vibrant media sector, Communications
Minister Helen Coonan said in a statement.


Opponents of the reforms say they will instead concentrate power
in the hands of a few media moguls such as Rupert Murdoch and
James Packer, who already dominate the 12 billion dollar (9.0
billion US) market.


The new legislation, which has already sparked a series of
manouvres as major media companies scrambled to position
themselves, will come into effect on Wednesday, Coonan said.


"The current foreign ownership and control restrictions relating
to free-to-air and subscription television, and cross-media
ownership restrictions on commercial radio and television
licences and associated newspapers, have for too long limited
competition in the media sector," she said.


"They have restricted access to foreign capital and expertise and
stifled opportunities for growth."


The opposition Labor Party voted against the new laws, saying
they would further concentrate media ownership and erode
Australian democracy.


For decades the media world here has been dominated by a handful
of powerful barons who have carved out huge broadcasting and
print empires.


Murdoch's News Limited controls nearly 70 percent of the
metropolitan and national newspaper market with titles such as
The Australian and the Daily Telegraph.


Packer's Publishing and Broadcasting Limited, now run by son
James Packer, owns a raft of magazines and Nine Network
television.

