

Australian head coach Alan Thompson has warned betting against
out-of-form Grant Hackett from successfully defending his
1500-metres freestyle Olympic title in Beijing next year.


Hackett's form free-fall has been one of the major talking points
of the Melbourne world championships.


The Australian has relinquished his 400m and 800m freestyle world
titles and is under serious threat to maintain his 10-year
unbeaten record in the 1500m on Sunday's last day.


The most-decorated swimmer in world championship history with 18
medals, including 10 golds, looked a forlorn sight when
floundering seventh behind Tunisian Oussama Mellouli in
Wednesday's 800m final.


Hackett is the only swimmer in history to win the same event
(1500m) in four consecutive world championships stretching back
to Perth in 1998.


But he is paying dearly for a dirupted preparation, switching
coaches, relocating to Melbourne from Queensland's Gold Coast, an
imminent marriage and coming back from a season off with major
shoulder surgery.


Thompson though said his under-fire team captain had what it took
to bounce back in Beijing, and ruled out Hackett quitting the
1500m in Melbourne.


"I'm not going to back against him. I'd like to meet someone
who'll put his house up on someone else for Beijing," Thompson
told a press conference.


"As important as the world championships are, every competition
leading up to the Olympic Games is a stepping stone in
preparation.


"This is a speed hump but I don't doubt Grant's result."


"He's had a lot of disruptions in his life and training and it's
had a greater effect on his performances than he thought (in
Melbourne).


"It doesn't matter how mentally strong you are, if you haven't
prepared your body well enough you can't will it to happen.


"He admits it himself, that he just hasen't done enough work but
he will be giving his best in Saturday's heats of the 1500m as he
has always done."

