

A fundamentalist cleric at an Islamic school in the Pakistani
capital vowed Thursday not to free an alleged brothel owner and
two of her relatives unless police charge them as criminals.


Burqa-clad female students at the madrassa kidnapped the women on
Tuesday. Police on Wednesday then arrested two of the school's
female teachers and male students detained two policemen in
retaliation, sparking a standoff.


Pakistan authorities Wednesday released the two teachers in
return for the policemen, but the school's vice principal Abdul
Rashid Ghazi said Thursday there would be no more deals.


"We will not release these women until a criminal report is
registered against them by the local police," Ghazi told AFP.


He said officials had brought charges against the school and its
students instead of bringing to justice "real criminals who have
been polluting society."


Police said they could not lodge a case against the women without
proof that they were engaged in immoral activities.


"The law prohibits us from registering a case against any
individual in the absence of substantial evidence. Where is the
evidence?" a senior police official said on condition of
anonymity.


Ghazi earlier said that his students seized the woman, identified
as Shamim, and her two companions, during a morality campaign
following complaints from neighbours about their behaviour.


The case has raised questions about the Pakistan government's
willingness to tackle the hardline Jamia Hafsa school in the
centre of the capital, following a series of incidents.


In January, female students from the school occupied a nearby
government-run children's library in protest at official plans to
demolish a mosque in the capital.

