

Talks began in this southern French port on Thursday to resolve a
two-week docker's strike that threatens to cause fuel shortages
in France next week.


The regional government adminstrator or prefect, Christian
Fremont, met leaders of the Marseille port authority, CGT trade
union representatives, and Gilles Bavuz, head of terminal
operations for the state-owned gas group Gaz de France.


The CGT launched the strike on March 14 to demand the recruitment
of port workers at a new GDF gas terminal at Fos-sur-Mer. GDF
argues that for safety reasons it will employ only its own staff.


The action has depressed activity in roughly half of France's 13
refineries.


France is in the midst of campaigning for the first round of a
presidential election on April 22.


Fifty seven ships, including 33 oil tankers, 18 chemical carriers
and six liquefied natural gas (LNG) ships are lying at anchor
offshore near the terminal.


"The lack of supplies means that some refineries are going to
start eating into reserves from this week and slowing down
production. The first problems for private consumers could appear
at the start of April," Jean-Francois Cousinie of the French
Union of Petroleum Industries said Wednesday.


An association of small and medium-sized businesses appealed to
governing authorities "to take vigorous" action to end the
stoppage, warning that its economic effects could have a negative
impact on the nation as a whole.


"The French economy must not again be held hostage to a labour
dispute that could paralyse fuel supplies," the associaiton, the
CGPME, stressed in a statement.

