

Malaysian Defence Minister Najib Razak on Thursday denied he had
apologised to his Indonesian counterpart for recent incidents
related to their joint border off Borneo island.


"Whatever it is, it didn't happen ... I myself did not apologise
to the Indonesian minister of defence," Najib, also deputy prime
minister, told reporters.


Indonesian Defence Minister Juwono Sudarsono on Wednesday said
Najib had apologised after Malaysian warships and planes
reportedly crossed into Indonesian territorial waters earlier
this month.


They reportedly made the encroachment near an oil exploration
area known as the Ambalat Block off Borneo, which has been a
source of tension in the past.


"The Malaysian defence minister has expressed his apologies to me
on the recent Ambalat incident and promised to warn his
subordinates," said Sudarsono.


But Najib said he had talked to Sudarsono at a Southeast Asian
defence ministers' meeting in Bali, Indonesia last week about
forging "an understanding to avoid any undesirable incidents."


"He agreed that we should uphold the rules of engagement at the
level of military leadership as well as on the ground," he said.


"In the case of Ambalat, it means that those who were commanding
the ships must act maturely and not be emotional. That is what we
agreed."


Najib said both countries had also noted bilateral political ties
were "very good".


"So there's no reason that incidents such as Ambalat cannot be
discussed between two countries that have a good relationship,"
he said.


"That was all. So the question of an apology did not arise."


The Ambalat block has been a source of tension in the past.
Bilateral relations hit a low in 2005 when warships from the two
sides brushed in the area.


Another dispute over the ownership of two islands ended in
December 2002, when the International Court of Justice ruled they
belonged to Malaysia.

