

Chinese share prices closed mixed Thursday with the Shanghai
market boosted by institutional buying of heavyweight banks while
Shenzhen fell on profit-taking, dealers said.


They said that buying in banks pushed up the key Shanghai index
to new high but Shenzhen's technology-heavy board was unable to
follow suit.


Turnover remained strong amid expectations that fresh funds, a
plan by regulators to launch index futures and a set of strong
corporate earnings will see share prices move even higher still.


On Wednesday total volumes in Shanghai and Shenzhen were
particularly heavy at more than 28 billion dollars, a level that
makes mainland China the most active market in Asia, even ahead
of Tokyo on a daily comparison.


The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index, which covers both A- and
B-shares, added 24.52 points or 0.77 percent at 3,197.54, a new
closing record, on turnover of 140.36 billion yuan (18.11 billion
dollars).


The Shanghai A-share Index was up 26.25 points or 0.79 percent at
3,360.82 on turnover of 139.96 billion yuan but the Shenzhen
A-share Index lost 16.41 points or 1.88 percent at 856.32 on
turnover of 62.29 billion yuan.


"Institutional investors bought financial stocks ahead of the
upcoming (launch of) index futures. Furthermore, these banks and
brokerages are all expected to post robust earnings for this
year," said Zeng Bo, an analyst at Changjiang Securities.


Dealers noted however that the gains were concentrated in a
narrow band while the broader Shanghai market was weaker.


"The Shanghai market was mainly supported by strength in
heavyweight banking stocks, with over 70 percent of Shanghai-
listed companies closing in negative territory," said Zhang Yi,
an analyst at Yibang Investment.


Bank of China was up 0.34 yuan or 6.38 percent at 5.67 while
Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC) added 0.29 yuan or
5.47 percent at 5.59.


Industrial Bank was up 1.86 yuan or 7.16 percent at 27.83.


Sinolink Securities was up 23.28 yuan or 129.62 percent at 41.42
after it resumed trading following a three-month suspension to
facilitate a backdoor listing and related restructuring.


CITIC Securities added 1.85 yuan or 4.49 percent at 43.08 and
Hong Yuan Securities was up 0.79 yuan or 3.72 percent at 22.01.


Selected property developers were in demand due to further yuan
strength. Tianjin Reality Development (Group) was up its 10
percent daily limit at 11.02 yuan.


Power generators were weighed down by profit-taking with Shenyang
Huitian Heating Electricity Supply off 0.39 yuan or 6.78 percent
at 5.36.


The Shanghai B-share Index ended down 2.43 points or 1.36 percent
to 176.75 on turnover of 404.38 million US dollars while the
Shenzhen B-share Index was up 2.93 points or 0.56 percent at
523.68 on turnover of 649.25 million Hong Kong dollars (83.77
million US dollars).

