

The economic outlook for the 13 countries sharing the euro faces
"looming risks" from abroad, but the bloc should grow "robustly"
at 2.4 percent this year, the European Commission said Thursday.


While sticking to the Commission's 2007 growth forecast, the head
of the EU executive's economic department Klaus Regling said that
"in the longer run, prospects could diminish due to some looming
risks in the external environment."


Those risks include slower US growth, a stronger euro, higher oil
prices and a possibly messy unwinding of global imbalances in
trade and capital flows, he said in the foreward of a quarterly
review of the eurozone economy.


The recent global stock market rout highlighted growing
"financial market uncertainties", Regling wrote, warning: "It is
too early to tell whether this reflects a mere technical
correction or the beginning of a more sustained period of
weakness."


The note of caution comes after eurozone finance ministers
broadly voiced optimism in their economic outlook despite risks
at a regular meeting on Monday in Brussels.


Meeting for the first time since the start of the major financial
market correction at the end of February, the ministers concluded
that the turbulence would not have an impact on growth in their
combined economy.


The European Commission report said that risks to the eurozone's
"favourable" economic outlook were "balanced" in the near term
with unemployment at record lows and inflation tame.


Eurozone unemployment fell in January to a historic low of 7.4
percent while annual inflation has been holding steady since the
start of the year at 1.8 percent.


The report was also unworried about the flattening of the so-
called yield curve on eurozone government bonds, which reflects
the difference between investors' short-term and long term
economic expectations and is known for signalling recessions.

