

Ailing Cuban leader Fidel Castro blasted US President George W.
Bush Thursday in his first signed press article since undergoing
surgery eight months ago.


Castro, who has temporarily handed power to his brother while
recovering from a gastrointestinal operation, accused Bush of
condemning more than three billion people to a "premature death"
by promoting the use of biofuels.


An early copy of the article was distributed to the press before
appearing Thursday in the Communist Party's official newspaper,
Granma.


The article is titled "Condemnation to premature death of hunger
and thirst of more than three billion people in the world."


A top Cuban official recently indicated that Castro was on the
mend and could soon resume a more active role in government work.


"What we are expecting is that we will have him back (at work)
with us, in a more active way, soon," Communist Party Politburo
member and Basic Industry Minister Yadira Garcia told reporters
on March 20.


"Our comandante is recovering, his recovery process is making
progress," Garcia said.


Castro, 80, handed over power for the first time in more than
four decades in July to his brother and regime number-two Raul
Castro, 75, following the surgery.


Castro's health has been the subject of much speculation over the
past months, with US officials at one stage suggesting that
Washington's longtime nemesis had just days left to live.


Much to the chagrin of hardline Cuban exiles in Miami, who had
prematurely danced on his grave, video footage of Castro
broadcast on January 30 showed him looking healthier and more
alert than in the previous pictures released by Cuban
authorities.


Bolivian President Evo Morales, a close Cuban ally, said this
month Castro would make his first public appearance since last
year on April 28, at a meeting in Havana of leaders from the
alternative development group Bolivarian Alternative for the
Americas (ALBA), backed by Cuba.

