

The leader of protests that precipitated the coup against then
Thai premier Thaksin Shinawatra was sentenced to two years in
prison Thursday for defaming a minister in the fallen government,
his lawyer said.


Media mogul and protest leader Sondhi Limthongkul was found
guilty of criminal defamation for telling a rally in northeastern
Thailand that Thaksin's transport minister was a communist and
disloyal to the nation's king, according to court officials.


"The judge convicted him and sentenced him to two years,"
Sondhi's lawyer Suwat Aapiapak told AFP.


Later in the day, Sondhi was released on a 200,000-baht
(6,300-dollar) bail pending an appeal of the case, which his
lawyer vowed to take all the way to the Supreme Court.


"We will absolutely appeal the verdict and fight until the end,"
Suwat said.


Sondhi had until now escaped conviction on a raft of defamation
charges filed by different officials over comments he made during
his many rallies.


He had also been charged with lese majeste -- the crime of
offending the dignity of a monarch -- over an alleged insult to
King Bhumibol Adulyadej, but prosecutors dropped the charges and
he never went to court.


The defamation charge that stuck was over comments Sondhi made
about former transport minister Phumtham Wechayachai, whom he
accused of being a communist and of lacking loyalty to the king.


Such comments are considered deeply offensive in Thailand, where
the king is genuinely revered.


Sondhi had spearheaded months of protests against Thaksin over
accusations of corruption, which eventually precipitated the coup
in September.


However Sondhi's own controversial business dealings prevented
him from transforming the protest movement into any sort of
political movement, and he has been largely silent since the
military takeover.

