

The new US ambassador to Iraq, Ryan Crocker, was sworn in at the
American embassy in Baghdad's tightly fortified Green Zone on
Thursday.


Crocker replaces Zalmay Khalilzad, who left the country earlier
this week, and arrived in Iraq late on Tuesday.


He was sworn in by embassy official Tina Tran at a ceremony
attended by US Lieutenant General David Petraeus, the head of US
forces in Iraq, and by embassy officials, embassy spokesman Lou
Fintor said.


"We have a historic challenge ahead of us. Terrorists, insurgents
and militias continue to threaten security in Baghdad and around
the country. Security is without question the central issue,"
Crocker told the ceremony.


"Much remains to be done. New democratic institutions require
strengthening as does the rule of law ... These challenges will
demand a strong commitment and broad performance from the Iraqi
government and the international community."


Crocker takes over as US and Iraqi troops are locked in a massive
security crackdown that has deployed 80,000 troops in and around
Baghdad in a bid to quell burgeoning sectarian warfare and the
ongoing insurgency.


One one of Washington's most experienced diplomats, with
extensive knowledge of the Middle East, he has been ambassador in
Lebanon, Kuwait, Syria and Pakistan. He has also been posted in
Afghanistan, Iraq, Iran and Egypt.


A fluent Arabic speaker and legendary workaholic with a
reputation for toughness and keeping his cool under fire, he
survived the 1983 bombing of the US embassy in Beirut that killed
63 people.


This is Crocker's second tenure at the embassy in Baghdad where
he met his wife, a retired foreign service secretary, in 1979.


Crocker will present his credentials to Iraqi President Jalal
Talabani soon, Fintor said.

