

Malaysia's defence forces chief on Thursday asked his Thai
counterpart for his trust in helping restore peace in southern
Thailand after militants were captured there with Malaysian
currency.


Violence in southern Thailand is a sensitive bilateral issue and
Thai officials have in the past accused Malaysia of failing to
prevent insurgents from crossing the porous border to stage
attacks.


General Abdul Aziz Zainal said he had contacted his Thai
counterpart and junta leader General Sonthi Boonyaratglin
Thursday to emphasise the sincerity of Malaysia's offer, the
state Bernama news agency reported.


"Trust our sincerity on this," Abdul Aziz was quoted as saying.


"We are prepared to help them but what is important is for them
to trust us. Otherwise it will be difficult for us to help them,"
he added.


His comments came after Thai soldiers in Narathiwat province in
southern Thailand said Wednesday they had captured 11 militants
in a pre-dawn raid on a mosque.


The military also seized about 2,500 dollars worth of Thai baht
and Malaysian ringgit, two M-16s, three guns, radio communication
equipment, medical supplies, Thai officials said.


Despite the militants' cache of Malaysian currency, Abdul Aziz
said he believed Thai authorities would not suspect the
involvement of Malaysians.


He also said operations at the shared Malaysia-Thailand border
were continuing as normal.


"We are always on the alert in ensuring security there," he said.


The two countries are conducting coordinated patrols along their
joint border and last month agreed to boost cooperation to end
three years of separatist unrest in the Thailand's south in which
2,000 people have died.


Southern Thailand, which was once an autonomous Malay sultanate,
has suffered outbreaks of separatist violence ever since Bangkok
annexed the area a century ago.

