

The European Union resumed Thursday membership talks with Turkey,
which have been stalled by Ankara's refusal to meet its trade
obligations to EU member state Cyprus, an EU source said.


At a technical level meeting in Brussels, chief Turkish
negotiator Ali Babacan and representatives for the 27 EU
countries began talks on "enterprise and industry policy".


It is only the second of 35 policy areas -- or chapters -- which
Turkey has begun negotiating since it was accepted as an official
candidate for membership to Europe's rich club in October 2005.


The meeting comes three months after the EU froze eight of the
policy areas, or chapters, to punish the government in Ankara for
failing to fully extend its customs agreement with the bloc to EU
member country Cyprus.


EU-Turkey talks have been at a standstill since the "science and
research" was opened last June.


While more chapters may be opened in the coming months, the EU
has decided that none can be successfully completed until Turkey
complies with its obligations on Cyprus.


In Istanbul on the eve of the talks, Babacan, who is also
Turkey's economy minister, said the breakthrough "shows that
Turkey's EU process is soundly on track and that the official
process is functioning neatly".


He said Ankara was working on reforms to meet EU norms and said
he expected negotiations to begin in three other chapters before
the end of June.


Many EU member nations are wary of inviting in a huge, relatively
poor and mainly-Muslim state which would, under EU rules, have
voting rights similar to major powers like Britain or Italy.


Turkey refuses to open its ports and airports to Greek Cypriot
traffic until the EU lives up to its pledge to end the isolation
of the Turkish Cypriot statelet in the north of the island, which
is recognised only by Ankara.

