

A Pakistani former judge who led a key probe into match-fixing
during the 1990s on Thursday urged the government to send
investigators to Jamaica to assist in the murder investigation of
cricket coach Bob Woolmer.


Justice Malik Mohammad Qayyum also demanded a judicial inquiry
into the national team's shock World Cup exit, amid swirling
rumours that Woolmer's death was linked to a so-called gambling
mafia.


Minnows Ireland sent Pakistan, the 1992 champions, crashing out
of the tournament on March 17, beating them by three wickets. A
day later, Woolmer was found strangled in his hotel room.


"A judicial inquiry should be ordered into this fiasco," Qayyum
told AFP.


"Winning or losing is part of the game but the manner in which we
lost against Ireland in particular needs to be inquired into," he
said.


He refused to speculate on the possible motives for Woolmer's
death but said that Pakistan's government should get involved in
the probe.


"Woolmer was our man. He was our coach and the government must
send its own investigation team," he said.


In 2000, Qayyum, at the time a Lahore High Court Judge, led a
judicial inquiry into allegations of match-fixing centred on
former Pakistan captain Salim Malik.


Australian trio Shane Warne, Tim May and Mark Waugh had alleged
Malik offered them money to underperform during their team's tour
to Pakistan in 1994.


The Qayyum inquiry banned Malik and paceman Ataur Rehman for life
and fined six others, including the current captain Inzamam-ul-
Haq, caretaker coach Mushtaq Ahmed, Wasim Akram, Waqar Younis,
Saeed Anwar and Akram Raza.


Pakistan Cricket Board Chief Naseem Ashraf on Monday denied the
team were involved in any kind of match-fixing or corruption.

