

The dollar staged a modest rebound against the yen in Asian trade
Thursday as the market awaited key US fourth-quarter economic
growth figures and a slew of domestic data, dealers said.


They said the market remained on edge after mixed remarks from US
Federal Reserve Ben Bernanke and a spike in oil prices that was
fuelled by jitters over tensions between Iran and the West.


The dollar firmed to 117.17 yen in Tokyo afternoon trade after
reversing early losses, compared with 116.85 in New York late
Wednesday.


The euro rose to 1.3320 dollars from 1.3312 and to 156.06 yen
from 155.50.


The US currency rebounded against the yen as "dealers judged the
dollar hit a bottom at the mid-116 yen level," said Shigeru
Nakane, planning manager at Resona Bank.


The dollar had earlier eased back as the market digested the
testimony from Bernanke, who said inflation remained a concern
for policymakers and that the outlook for the housing market was
uncertain.


But Yosuke Hosokawa, head of forex at Chuo Mitsui Trust Bank,
said the Fed chief could have been even more cautious so the
impact was not so great.


"Of course we did not expect that the Fed would tone down its
vigilant position on inflation, but if we look at economic
indicators the US economy is not so strong," he added.


Dealers said Bernanke's comments had dampened expectations of a
near-term interest rate cut somewhat but many continue to see
lower rates as likely.


"Traders continue to price (in) almost 50 basis points of Fed
rate cuts by year- end and so it's hard to see significant dollar
gains while this remains the case," noted National Australia Bank
strategist John Kyriakopoulos.


"This reflects the perception that the Fed might be too
optimistic on the growth outlook," he added.


US data showed new orders for durable goods rose 2.5 percent in
February, after declining by a revised 9.3 percent in January --
the sharpest one-month fall since June 2000.


The figures fuelled market nervousness ahead of the US growth
figures.


Dealers are also awaiting a slew of Japanese economic indicators
on Friday including inflation, unemployment and industrial
output, while a final estimate of US fourth quarter economic
growth was due later Thursday.


Dealers shrugged off moves by US senators to introduce laws to
counter "currency manipulation" by China and Japan as dealers
noted that the Japanese government had not intervened on currency
markets since mid-2004.


The dollar eased to 9,125 Indonesian rupiah in late Asian trade
from 9,133 on Wednesday and to 939.60 South Korean won from
940.80.


It rose to 33.056 Taiwan dollars from 33.038 and to 32.00 Thai
baht from 31.98, but was flat at 1.5174 Singapore dollars and
48.220 Philippine pesos.

