

EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana warned Thursday that any
European Union failure to help Kosovo achieve its new status
could imperil security in the volatile Balkans.


"We do not have the right to fail. We are talking about the
stability of the Balkans," Solana told lawmakers at the European
Parliament in Brussels.


"It would be a very great failure and it would also limit our
ability to act in the future if we are not able to correctly and
rapidly resolve the problems that our neighbours have," he said.


The European Union is preparing a massive civilian mission to
help Kosovo move toward the "independence, supervised by the
international community" recommended by United Nations envoy
Martti Ahtisaari.


Ahtisaari said that after a year of talks, Serbian and Kosovar
authorities "have reaffirmed their categorical, diametrically
opposed positions."


The UN Security Council is set to debate his proposal next month,
but Russia, a close ally of Serbia, has been threatening to use
its veto there if independence is imposed.


"The international community will, without doubt, be forced to
impose that solution," Solana said, adding that a Security
Council resolution is needed before the EU can begin its work,
backed by NATO.


"Consequently all the members of the Security Council must engage
themselves for that to happen and you know that some difficulties
have already surfaced, with some countries," he added.


"I'm thinking here of Russia and perhaps China."


"Whatever the Security Council's decision, we will have huge
responsibilities because Kosovo is on our continent and it has a
European perspective," Solana said.


Kosovo has been administered by the United Nations since 1999,
when a NATO bombing campaign ended a brutal crackdown, including
ethnic cleansing, by Serb forces against the largely separatist
minded ethnic-Albanian majority.

