

Hong Kong share prices closed 1.37 percent higher Thursday in a
technical rebound after two days of falls, with CNOOC and China
Unicom posting steep gains ahead of their 2006 results, dealers
said.


They said the market was supported by last-minute buying ahead of
the settlement of March futures as well as some end-quarter
window-dressing.


The Hang Seng Index closed up 267.91 points at 19,821.78, off a
high of 19,832.14 and a low of 19,460.36. Turnover was 56.52
billion Hong Kong dollars (7.3 billion US).


"The market saw a technical rebound after a two-day fall, with
some futures related buying providing support," said Castor Pang,
strategist at Sun Hung Kai Financial group.


He said the market is expected to remain volatile in the near
term as it takes leads from overseas market as well as US
economic data.


Further gains will be limited as the index is above the 19,800
level, Pang added.


Major blue chips saw buying interest, with HSBC gaining 0.50 at
136.0, Hutchison Whampoa up 0.55 at 75.2 and China Mobile up 1.30
at 71.1.


Cheung Kong gained 1.90 at 98.8 after news that its chairman Li
Ka-shing bought 1.535 million additional shares in the company
for 150 million dollars, raising his stake in the company to
39.07 percent from 39 percent.


Hutchison Telecom was up 0.50 at 15.26 after Li purchased 9
million shares of the company for 139.14 million dollars,
boosting his stake in the unit.


China Unciom was up 0.52 at 11.32 and CNOOC was up 0.21 at 6.83
ahead of their results announcements.


China Unicom announced after market close a net profit of 3.73
billion yuan for 2006, against 4.93 billion a year earlier. The
figure was in line with analysts' forecasts.


CNOOC reported a full-year net profit of 30.93 billion yuan (4
billion US), also in line with forecasts.


Among other companies reporting their results today,
Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp (SMIC) was up at
1.1 and China Shipping Development down 0.06 at 11.80 ahead of
results.


China financials gained following strong performance of banks on
the mainland's A-share market.


China Life was up 0.25 at 22.4, Bank of China up 0.08 at 3.91 and
ICBC was up 0.07 at 4.39.


PCCW fell 0.03 at 4.70 after reporting that its net profit fell
over 21 percent last year to 1.25 billion Hong Kong dollars on
lower net investment gains.

