

Kingfisher, the biggest European home-improvements retailer, said
on Thursday that annual net profit more than doubled in 2006
after a recovery at its B&Q stores in Britain.


Kingfisher, which owns also the Castorama and Brico Depot stores
in France, said net profit jumped to 336.8 million pounds (496.2
million euros, 661.5 million dollars) in the year to February 3,
2007, compared with 139.5 million pounds a year earlier.


"The UK home improvement market stabilised during the year and
B&Q delivered sales and profit growth in the second half,"
Kingfisher chief executive Gerry Murphy said in comments
accompanying the earnings statement.


"B&Q's development programme is encouraging and the pace of
activity is accelerating in 2007/08."


However Kingfisher said that adjusted net profit, which strips
out exceptional items, fell by 2.8 percent to 277.0 million
pounds.


Adjusted pretax profit dropped 11.0 percent to 396.6 million
pounds.


The adjusted data caused Kingfisher's share price to slide by
more than 2.5 percent in morning London trade.


Kingfisher added that total group sales stood at 8.68 billion
pounds last year, up 8.3 percent. At stores open at least a year,
sales grew by 0.9 percent.


"Whilst trading conditions for our biggest businesses continue to
be challenging, the longer-term outlook remains positive for home
improvement retailing," Murphy said.


"Kingfisher's leading market positions in the UK and France, and
fast-developing positions elsewhere in Europe and Asia, provide a
powerful platform from which to deliver sustainable long-term
growth and returns for shareholders.


"Ahead of the key Easter trading period, early 2007/08 trading
has been stronger in our major markets, supported by better
weather," he added.


The full-year dividend was maintained at 10.65 pence per share.


Later in a conference call to journalists, Murphy said he was
nonplussed by recent speculation that Kingfisher might soon face
a takeover bid from a private equity company.


"We haven't spent an hour of management time worrying about this,
we're completely focused on running our business and that's what
we're doing," he said.


But Murphy declined to say whether or not Kingfisher has received
any approaches.


Following the release of Kingfisher's earnings statement, the
group's share price dived 2.56 percent to 264.07 on London's FTSE
100. The capital's leading share index was 0.72-percent higher at
6,312.20 points.


Kingfisher trades from more than 700 stores in 11 countries
across Europe and Asia.

