

Russian President Vladimir Putin called Thursday for a deadline
on the presence of foreign troops in Iraq in order to avert civil
war.


Consultations with political and religious leaders were required,
as well as "clear time limits for the foreign military presence
in the country," Putin said in a statement sent to the Arab
League summit in Riyadh.


"The situation in Iraq is of serious concern. In order to prevent
the country from descending into full-scale civil war and
disintegration, there must be real national reconciliation,"
Putin said.


Putin's comments came as Democrats in the United States ploughed
ahead with efforts to force President George W. Bush to change
course in Iraq, with a Senate vote due on a bill calling for US
troops to pull out by next year.


Russia has no military presence in Iraq and vehemently opposed
the US-led invasion in 2003. Putin has previously called for a
withdrawal of foreign troops to help stability in the country.


In his statement, Putin also spoke of the Arab-Israeli conflict,
a day after the Arab summit decided to revive a 2002 plan for
recognising Israel in exchange for an Israeli withdrawal from
land occupied in 1967.


"Our principled evaluation of the situation in the region is
unchanged -- at the root of the problems is the unresolved status
of the Arab-Israeli conflict," Putin said.


Russia is a member of the international diplomatic quartet
seeking to mediate in the Middle East conflict along with the
European Union, the United Nations and the United States.

