

Management of Thailand's AirAsia will shortly acquire the 50
percent stake held in the carrier by Shin Corp, sold off
controversially to Singapore's Temasek last year, an industry
source said Thursday.


"The management of Thailand's AirAsia is expected to complete the
take-over in two to three weeks," the source told AFP on
condition of anonymity.


It was earlier reported that management of Thai AirAsia had
commenced negotiations to buy the 50 percent stake.


"Talks are in the final leg now," the source added.


Thai AirAsia's management holds one percent in the low-cost
carrier, with Malaysia's AirAsia budget carrier holding 49
percent, the maximum allowed under Thai foreign ownership laws.


The source said with the acquisition, AirAsia Thailand will
agressively pursue new destinations into China and speed up the
introduction of the Airbus A320 aircraft.


"AirAsia Thailand will soon mount the Bangkok-Shenzhen route and
will accelerate the introduction of the A320 in October," he
said.


The budget carrier had previously planned to bring in the A320s
only in 2010.


Shin Corp's stake in Thai AirAsia is held by Asia Aviation, a
company set up last year to bring the airline into compliance
with Thai foreign ownership rules.


Shin Corp holds 49 percent in that venture, with the rest owned
by Sittichai Veerathummnoon, a Thai businessman.


Controversy erupted last year after Thailand's AirAsia was
ordered to comply with the country's foreign ownership rules
following the sale of Shin Corp, founded by ousted Thai premier
Thaksin Shinawatra, to Temasek.


Temasek paid Thaksin's family 1.9 billion dollars for their
holding in Shin Corp in a tax free deal which sparked a series of
demonstrations against the premier and eventually led to the
military coup against him in September.


Temasek subsequently acquired most of Shin Corp, which has an
array of interests, most notably in the telecoms sector, but the
military government has challenged the deal.

