

A bomb exploded after being thrown into the yard of a Serb home
in Kosovo's tense north late Wednesday, police said, announcing
the third blast in the area within days.


The explosion went off on the northern side of the ethnically
divided town of Kosovska Mitrovica at around 9:00 pm (1900 GMT),
causing minor damage to the house and a vehicle but no injuries.


"The motive for the attack is unclear," the police said in a
statement, adding an investigation had been launched into the
incident.


Serbian media reports said the target of the attack was a Serb
member of the multi-ethnic Kosovo Police Service whose operations
are overseen by the UN mission in the disputed province, UNMIK.


This was confirmed to AFP by a police source in the provincial
capital Pristina.


The explosion, the third in Kosovo's north since Friday last
week, comes amid heightened tensions after UN special envoy
Martti Ahtisaari recommended the province be granted
internationally supervised independence.


Kosovo has been run by UNMIK since a 1999 NATO bombing campaign
helped to drive out Serb forces who were waging a brutal
crackdown on separatist ethnic Albanian guerillas and their
civilian supporters.


Ahtisaari's plan has been welcomed by the leaders of Kosovo's
ethnic Albanians but rejected by Belgrade as a violation of
Serbia's territorial integrity.


The UN Security Council is expected to debate it next month.


Independence-seeking ethnic Albanians comprise about 90 percent
of Kosovo's two million population.


Around two-thirds of Kosovo's Serbs have fled the province
fearing reprisals since the start of its 1998-1999 conflict. They
now number little more than 100,000.

