

The head of the United Nations Human Rights Council on Thursday
defended a report by Nobel laureate Jody Williams on rights
abuses in Darfur, and called for it to be implemented in full.


Luis Alfonso de Alba told reporters it is crucial the council
remains "engaged," both for the situation on the ground and the
council's own credibility.


"It's not the question of just taking note of the report and
moving on. It is neither the question of sending back a mission
... I think we have a comprehensive report with specific
recommendations and we need to look for their implementation," de
Alba said.


The UN estimates at least 200,000 people have been killed in
Darfur with a further 2.5 million displaced since the conflict
began in 2003.


The high-level report by Williams and her team earlier this month
found that Sudan's government has "orchestrated and participated
in" war crimes and human rights abuses such as rape and torture
across the strife-torn region.


It urged the international community to adopt a "fully unified
approach" in addressing Darfur, and called on it to implement
measures such as travel bans and the freezing of assets for those
identified as rights violators.


Sudan and its allies, including Russia and China, had tried
unsuccessfully to stifle debate at the Council by claiming the
Williams report was biased.


De Alba rejected this claim, saying that "certainly the integrity
of the members has been beyond any question, I think they all did
a very good, very professional work."


He also said he was hopeful the Council would move to action.


"I don't think there is one single member of the Council which is
not concerned about the situation in Sudan."

