

Michael Phelps shattered a third world record in winning the
200-metre individual medley for his fourth gold medal at the
world championships on Thursday.


The American swimming marvel chopped 0.86seconds off his own mark
to win the medley final in one minute 54.98 seconds to beat home
American teammate Ryan Lochte (1:56.19).


Phelps is now halfway to his ambitious target of winning eight
gold medals at the world titles in his buildup to an assault on
Mark Spitz's record seven gold medals at next year's Beijing
Olympics.


"I am just happy to swim fast again and have my training work,"
Phelps said.


"I went out there and went after it. That is what I have been
doing for every race. Why stop something that works?"


It was 21-year-old Phelps' third consecutive win in the event at
the worlds and his sixth world record in the medley he has made
his own.


The Olympic champion is the only swimmer to win three back-to-
back 200m medley world titles.


He has now won gold in the 200m freestyle, 200m butterfly and
200m medley, all in world record time at the Melbourne world
titles along with his role in America's winning 4x100m freestyle
relay team on Sunday.


His new world record bettered his previous mark of 1:55.84 set at
the Pan Pacific Games in Victoria, Canada, last August.


Lochte was just in front of Phelps on the third breaststroke leg
but Phelps swept past him on the turn.


Hungary's European champion Laszlo Cseh set a European record in
finishing third in 1:56.92.


"The bronze medal is reality right now. I didn't actually think
what he was doing. I concentrated on my own race. Michael is just
out of reach," Cseh said

