

Revelations in the media that Norway's state pension fund has
invested in international casinos and bookmaking companies caused
a stir on Friday as gambling for profit is prohibited in Norway.


The Norwegian state places almost all of the revenues from its
oil industry in a Pension Fund.


About 2.3 billion kroner (284 million euros, 286 million dollars)
from the fund have been invested in gambling enterprises such as
the MGM Mirage casino and bookmaker Ladbrokes whose activities
are barred in Norway, newspaper Aftenposten said.


Only the state monopoly is permitted to hold lotteries and
provide slot machines in the Scandinavian country, where charity
organisations were recently told they would no longer be allowed
to use slot machines to raise funds.


"The Norwegian state and politicians display arrogance and
double-standards in banning gambling while investing in such
companies abroad," the head of Norwegian organisation against
gambling addiction, Karl Tony Kvernmo, said.


"This is sickening and extremely frustrating," he told AFP.


Members of the governing Socialist Left party have also reacted
by calling for a tightening of the ethical guidelines governing
the Pension Fund's investments in order to make sure money is not
invested in the gambling industry.


Existing ethical guidelines already bar the Fund from investing
in "particularly inhumane" weapons manufacturers -- chemical
weapons, biological or nuclear weapons or anti-personnel mines --
and in companies known to be involved in large scale human rights
violations, corruption or environmental pollution.


Last week, Finance Minister Kristin Halvorsen announced a
toughening of the rules, consequently barring the purchase of
bonds in rogue states such as Myanmar.


At the end of 2006 the Pension Fund was worth more than 1,891
billion kroner (236 billion euros, 321 million US dollars).

