

Displaced people from the Democratic Republic of Congo's northern
Ituri region are returning home following the disbanding of the
last active militia there, the United Nations said on Friday.


"The progressive improvement in the security situation in Ituri,
and namely in the Djugu region, has allowed the process of
returning displaced people to begin," the UN Mission in DRC
(Monuc) said.


On April 7, Peter Karim became the last Ituri rebel leader to
surrender his weapons and order his fighters to demobilise. In
return, there was a general amnesty and he was appointed colonel
in the regular Congolese army.


"The commission of population movements for Ituri has recorded
113,654 'returnees' in this area in March, compared to 52,470 in
January," Monuc spokesman Kemal Saiki said.


However, Monuc warned that 12,000 displaced people in Djugu,
north of the Ituri capital Bunia, "are outside the reach of help
because of security reasons".


On Thursday, 201 former rebels left a camp where they were
prepared for integration into the regular army, Ituri army
liaison officer Captain Olivier Mputu told AFP.


About 400 other members of Karim's Nationalist and Integrationist
Front (FIN) were expected there on Friday, he added.


The process of mixing former rebels with the army began following
a five-year civil war that ended in 2003, leaving about four
million people dead.


Since 2005, a national process of demobilisation has led 15,000
fighters to disarm in Ituri. Almost all the region's militia
leaders were arrested in 2005.


One of them, Thomas Lubanga, will soon be tried for alleged war
crimes before the International Court of Justice in The Hague.


Karim's FNI is accused of several crimes against civilians and he
himself is blamed by Monuc for a deadly attack on one of its
helicopters in 2005.


Both Monuc and the Congolese authorities have called for a
peaceful end to the conflict.

