

Embattled World Bank president Paul Wolfowitz pledged Friday to
abide by recommendations of the lender's executive board
investigating a pay scandal, but left his future course of action
unclear.


In a brief statement issued after a late-night announcement by
directors, the embattled World Bank chief said he "welcomes the
decision of the Board to move forward and resolve this very
important issue."


Wolfowitz did not specifically indicate whether he would resign
over the affair, despite calls from key World Bank staffers and
harsh comments from some governments and activists over his role
in granting a hefty pay package for his girlfriend, bank employee
Shaha Riza.


But the statement said Wolfowitz "looks forward to implementing
the recommendations of the Board."


The statement left unclear the future of the World Bank chief,
who has faced growing pressure since the revelations of his role
in ordering a massive pay deal for Riza in 2005.


The board of 24 executive directors, after a late-night meeting,
said it was continuing to review the matter.


"The executive directors agreed on a process to deal with the
situation urgently, effectively and in an orderly manner," they
said in a statement.


Echoing a statement from World Bank ministers Sunday, the
directors expressed "great concern" over the affair, which has
caused a rebellion among the World Bank's 10,000 staff.


But they deferred any immediate action, calling for further
investigation into "conflicts of interest and possible violations
of staff rules" concerning Riza's pay package when she was
reassigned from the bank to the US government.

