

A UN court has deferred the war crimes trial of Ante Gotovina and
two other Croatian generals charged with murder and persecution
amid a row among the defence lawyers, court papers revealed
Friday.


The trial was due to start on May 7 but the judge postponed it to
an unspecified date after removing the defence lawyers for
Gotovina's two co-accused, citing a conflict of interest.


One of them was Croatia's justice minister at the time of a
lightning military operation which led to the recapture of the
Serb-held Krajina region of Croatia in 1995, crushing one of the
last pockets of Serb resistance.


Between 150,000 and 200,000 Serbs fled or were forced to flee to
Bosnia and Serbia during the operation, codenamed Storm. More
than 150 Serb civilians died during the offensive, according to
the court's indictment.


Gotovina and his co-accused are charged with war crimes and
crimes against humanity by the International Criminal Tribunal
for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY).


This week, lawyers for Cermak and Markac turned against
Gotovina's lead counsel Greg Kehoe, saying he too had a conflict
of interest because he had probed some of the crimes listed in
the indictment in his former job as prosecutor at the UN war
crimes court.


Many Croatians see Gotovina as a national hero who helped gain
the country's independence at the end of the wars that broke up
Yugoslavia.


His arrest in Spain in 2005, after four years on the run, sparked
popular protests in Croatia.

