

The leading Dow Jones Industrial Average share index, already
riding record highs, approached the 13,000 mark Friday as
investors' cheered a flurry of upbeat profit reports from
corporate America.


A strong profit report from Internet search giant Google late
Thursday and solid earnings performances from pharmaceutical
heavyweight Pfizer and McDonald's on Friday helped boost investor
sentiment.


At 1422 GMT, the Dow index had rocketed 114.02 points (0.89
percent) to 12,922.65, within reach of 13,000 points. The blue-
chip index had struck a record closing high of 12,808.63 points
on Thursday.


The tech-rich Nasdaq composite had gained 19.39 points (0.77
percent) to 2,524.74 and the broad-market Standard and Poor's was
11.01 points (0.75) percent higher at 1,481.74.


Stocks streaked higher on the earnings news, which has also been
particularly strong from the banking sector this week, and amid
higher global markets.


Google said, after the market close Thursday, that its profits
surged 69 percent to one billion dollars in the first three
months of the year while Pfizer booked first quarter profits
totaling 3.99 billion dollars.


The world's largest fast food chain, McDonald's, meanwhile said
its latest earnings swelled almost 22 percent from a year ago to
762.4 million dollars.


"Pfizer beat expectations. Honeywell also beat estimates and
raised guidance for the full year. McDonalds reported in line
with expectations," observed Dick Green, a president at
Briefing.com.


However, analysts cautioned that the Dow's strong run might hit
resistance soon as profit-takers are likely now poised to pounce.


The stock market has also displayed a winning streak despite
cooling US economic growth and lingering fears about America's
housing slump.


Some sectors of the economy, such as retail sales and the job
market, are holding up strongly, however.


But Friday's market surge was driven primarily by earnings news,
traders said.


Internet search behemoth Google's shares spiked 17.72 dollars, or
over three percent, to 489.37 dollars a day after it reported a
63 percent spike in revenues to 3.66 billion dollars from first
quarter 2006.


Advertising on Google's search engine drove revenues in the
quarter, with overseas markets accounting for 47 percent of its
income.


Investors also welcomed Pfizer's latest results, despite its
earnings slowing over 17 percent from a year ago after the drug
maker booked a one-time tax gain in 2006.


Pfizer's shares were down seven cents at 27.00 dollars.


"We had a good quarter, with adjusted income driven by a number
of factors: growth in our key in-line and new medicines, the
favorable impact of foreign exchange, lower sales rebates, and
relatively flat operating expenses compared to the year-ago
period," said Jeffrey Kindler, chairman and chief executive
officer.


And Illinois-based McDonald's said its first quarter net profits
swelled almost 22 percent from a year ago to 762.4 million
dollars while revenues grew 11 percent to 5.46 billion dollars.


The weak US dollar, which has slumped heavily in value on foreign
exchange markets, helped the fast food group book better global
revenues as overseas customers paid for their meals with higher-
value currencies.


McDonald's also reported earnings per share of 62 cents which met
the forecasts of most Wall Street analysts. It shares were 57
cents lower at 48.22 dollars.


Bond prices were slightly higher. The yield on the 10-year US
Treasury bond fell to 4.666 percent from 4.670 percent late
Thursday while that on the 30-year bond slipped to 4.832 percent
against 4.836 percent. Bond yields and prices move in opposite
directions.

