

The UN-backed tribunal trying suspects in Rwanda's 1994 genocide
on Friday rejected a request to prosecute President Paul Kagame
for alleged complicity in the death of his predecessor, an act
believed to have touched off the massacre.


The International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (ICTR) turned down
the request lodged last December by defence lawyers of a suspect
being tried for involvement in the mass killings.


Their request stemmed from a report last year by French anti-
terrorism judge Jean-Louis Bruguiere that also called for the
prosecution of nine of Kagame's aides.


"The chamber finds that it has no jurisdiction to direct the
prosecutor's course of action in conducting investigations or
prosecutions and denies the defence request for a writ of
mandamus," the tribunal said in a ruling.


Angered by Bruguiere's report, Kagame severed diplomatic and
cultural ties with France and ordered all French diplomats and
state employees out of the tiny central African nation.


Kagame, who headed the Tutsi rebel force that took power in
Kigali in July 1994, halting the slaughter, has always denied any
involvement in the shooting down of Juvenal Habyarimana's plane
over Kigali.


Habyarimana, along with then president of Burundi Cyprien
Ntaryamira, died under suspicious circumstances when his aircraft
was shot down in 1994, sparking a three-month killing spree by
Hutu radicals which many say was planned in advance.


A four-man French crew also died when the plane was destroyed.


The ruling also said that the tribunal's statutes give the
prosecutor "independence and unfettered discretion to decide
which investigations and prosecutions to pursue".


The Tanzania-based ICTR has repeatedly rejected calls to try
Kagame, saying Habyarimana's killing was not within its mandate,
but human rights lawyers have rejected that position.


The tribunal, formed in 1994, has so far convicted 28 suspects
and acquitted five.

