

French household spending on maufactured goods picked up in
March, after losing steam in February, and was robust as well
during the first quarter, the national statistics institute INSEE
reported Friday.


Consumer spending in the manfacturing sector, which accounts for
a quarter of all household spending, rose 0.7 percent in March
from February, when it contracted 0.5 percent.


Spending in the first three months of the year was up 2.1 percent
from the last quarter of 2006.


But in another report INSEE said orders for French industrial
goods fell 6.3 percent in February from January, when they had
risen 7.9 percent.


The latest figures were released just ahead of the Sunday's first
round presidential election in France in which consumer
purchasing power and the health of French industry have featured
prominently.


Consumer spending in March was led by durable goods, up 1.5
percent, while purchases in the automobile sector fell 0.4
percent.


"Nothing new under the sun," commented Nicolas Bouzou of the
research group Astares.


"The auto sector remains sluggish and, as usual, it is spending
on household goods that has led the way, reflecting sharply lower
prices for appliances and consumer electronic items."


For Alexander Law, an economist with the market research unit
Xerfi, the strength in spending on household goods was not
surprising, since an appreciating euro has reduced prices of
imported products.


"We know that purchasing power markedly increased in 2006" thanks
to tame inflation, lower oil prices and declining unemployment,
he added.


But he warned that spending on household items could weaken in
the coming months.


"The latest figures on housing starts were particularly bad," he
said. "It's hard to see how that would not have a negative impact
on consumption."

