

US President George W. Bush Friday ordered a review of the issues
raised after a US campus rampage left 32 dead, and called for
recommendations to avoid future tragedies.


Top officials from the departments of education, justice and
health will travel the nation and "report back to me with
recommendations about how we can help to avoid such tragedies,"
Bush says in his weekly radio address, released Friday.


"We can never fully understand what would cause a student to take
the lives of 32 innocent people," he says, referring to South
Korean-born Cho Seung-Hui, who killed 27 students and five
teachers in Monday's rampage at Virginia Tech University.


"What we do know is that this was a deeply troubled young man --
and there were many warning signs," he says in his address,
released by the White House on Friday.


"I've asked top officials at the Departments of Education,
Justice, and Health and Human Services ... to participate in a
review of the broader questions raised by this tragedy."


Cho, described as a sullen, uncommunicative loner, was briefly
treated in a psychiatric institution in December 2005 after two
stalking incidents. But he was released the next day after
agreeing to treatment.


Despite his mental health troubles, he was able to buy two guns
and ammunition which he used in Monday's shooting spree at the
Virginia Tech campus in Blacksburg, Virginia.


"Our society continues to wrestle with the question of how to
handle individuals whose mental health problems can make them a
danger to themselves and others," Bush says.


"This week at Virginia Tech, we saw a glimpse of humanity at its
worst, and we also saw humanity at its best," he says, referring
to acts of heroism which have emerged over the past days.

