

McDonald's, the world's largest fast-food group, said Friday its
latest quarterly profits were heated up by a weaker dollar and
improved burger sales across America and Europe.


The Illinois-based McDonald's said its first-quarter net profit
swelled almost 22 percent from a year ago to 762.4 million
dollars while revenue grew 11 percent to 5.46 billion dollars.


The ailing US dollar, which has slumped heavily in value on
foreign exchange markets, fattened up McDonald's global revenues
as overseas customers paid for their meals with higher-value
currencies.


McDonald's also reported earnings per share of 62 cents which met
the forecasts of most Wall Street analysts.


"This quarter's results reflect higher revenues, increased
customer visits and enhanced profitability as we keep our brand
relevant through contemporary food and beverage offerings, modern
restaurants and attractive everyday value," McDonald's chief
executive Jim Skinner said.


The company, renowned for its Golden Arches logo, said its US
outlets in March had celebrated a 48th straight month of positive
comparative sales marking "a milestone not achieved since 1980."


The burger and fries behemoth said sales across Europe had also
been particularly robust.


McDonald's announced it had also struck an agreement covering
Latin America and the Caribbean with a group led by businessman
Woods Staton that will result in the franchising of almost 1,600
restaurants.


The fast-food group said it expects to bank nearly 700 million
dollars in proceeds from the sale of the restuarants under the
deal which is tied to a 20-year license agreement.


Founded in the mid-1950s by Ray Kroc, McDonald's has grown from a
single Illinois restaurant to a global fast-food giant with more
than 30,000 outlets serving around 50 million hungry customers
every day in over 119 countries.


McDonald's shares were down 60 cents at 48.18 dollars in late
morning trading.

