

US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice will attend an
international conference on Iraq next month in Egypt and could
meet her Iranian counterpart, the State Department confirmed on
Friday.


Spokesman Sean McCormack said Rice would participate in a meeting
of the Iraq Compact, a group of donor states, as well as talks
among Iraq's neighbors and major world powers being held from May
1 to 4 in the Egyptian Red Sea resort of Sharm el-Sheikh.


"While in Sharm el-Sheikh, Secretary Rice will discuss ways to
support Iraq in its economic reform efforts and move forward with
the stabilization of Iraq and transition to full Iraqi self-
reliance," McCormack said.


Iran has not yet confirmed its attendance at the meeting,
designed to discuss ways to help stabilize Iraq, but McCormack
said if Tehran's foreign minister does participate, Rice could
meet with him.


He would also not rule out contacts between Rice and her Syrian
counterpart.


"I'm not going to rule out any particular diplomatic interaction.
I'm not going to point you in the direction of any particular
meeting with the Iranians or the Syrians," he said.


"She, obviously, as secretary, has latitude to choose targets of
opportunity if she feels there's something that presents itself,"
he said.


The United States has not had diplomatic relations with Iran
since 1980 and the administration of President George W. Bush has
so far refused high-level contacts with the regime in Tehran.


But Washington softened that stand last month by allowing its
ambassador to Iraq attend a lower-level Iraq neighbors meeting at
which he held brief discussions with Iranian officials about the
Iraq situation.


Washington accuses both Iran and Syria of backing anti-US
insurgents in Iraq as well as US-designated terrorist groups
elsewhere in the Middle East.


The US is also at odds with Iran over its nuclear program.

