

The European Union's border agency, Frontex, now has the
equipment it had demanded to properly conduct missions like
patrol's off Spain's Canary Islands, the EU's executive body said
Friday.


Frontex has 116 ships, 27 helicopters, 21 aircraft and diverse
technical equipment, like thermal imaging cameras and radars, at
its disposal, the European Commission told EU interior ministers
meeting in Luxembourg.


The Warsaw-based external border management agency has been
conducting patrols off the Canaries since last summer to try to
curb an influx of illegal immigrants heading across from West
Africa.


Frontext said Friday that the patrols had become be a year-round
operation.


Spanish police figures released earlier this month showed that
just 303 illegals, most of them from sub-Saharan Africa, arrived
in the Canaries in March, seven times fewer than the 2,120
arrivals in the same month last year.


Some 1,525 immigrants arrived in the first quarter of 2007, a
reduction of 61 percent on the same time last year (3,194
arrivals).


Apart from committing to equipment, the justice ministers also
agreed to form a pool of 300-500 border guards and national
experts which Frontex could call on in the case of any massive
movement of illegal immigrants.


The "Rapid Border Intervention Teams" could be despatched "at
short notice to any member state whose borders are under a
particular threat and strain by illegal migration," the German EU
presidency said in a statement.


German Interior Minister Wolfgang Schauble, who hosted the
meeting, said his country's police "has had a very positive
experience with giving executive powers to guest officers" during
last summer's football World Cup in Germany.


Frontex was set up in 2005 to coordinate the efforts of member
states to secure the EU's 6,000 kilometres (3,600 miles) of
external land borders and 85,000 kilometres of coastline.

