

WTO member states decided Friday to intensify talks on lowering
customs tariffs despite the absence of agreement between the four
key players, the United States, the European Union, India and
Brazil, known as the G4.


"The multilateral process can no longer be made to wait for the
contribution of smaller groups," said WTO director general Pascal
Lamy.


The 150 member states charged the heads of working committes on
agriculture, services and non-agricultural market access to
quickly prepare compromise texts without waiting for any
breakthrough in G4 talks.


Ministers from the G4 met in New Delhi last week but failed to
reach a deal on agriculture, which has stymied global trade talks
since the Doha round was launched in the Qatari capital in 2001.


Within the G4, the United States and the European Union have
engaged in bitter arguments over trade in agricultural goods,
with Brussels demanding more reductions in US farm subsidies and
Washington insisting that proposed European tariff cuts do not go
far enough.


At the New Delhi meeting, the ministers agreed only to aim for a
compromise by mid-June.


Meanwhile, the head of the agriculture working group, Crawford
Falconer, plans to issue a "challenges paper" to provoke movement
among member states on tarrifs and subsidies ahead of the group's
next meeting on May 4, trade sources said.


Lamy told Friday's meeting that a deal is still "doable" but all
players need to redouble their efforts to secure a positive
outcome.


"This is a big task. In my view, it is doable... but it will only
be possible if you all put every effort into making the
multilateral process the pathway to success," he said.

