

European stock exchanges posted impressive gains Friday on
healthy growth prospects in the eurozone, strong corporate
earnings in the United States and wave of takeover talk.


Records were set in Brussels, Madrid and Zurich while markets in
London, Paris and Frankfurt ended the week well into positive
territory.


The deep anxiety that pervaded global markets in late February-
early March, when a sharp correction set in worldwide, has been
replaced by bouyant optimism, traders said.


"The fears that became apparent in February were centered in the
United States," said Francois-Xavier Chauchat, an economist with
Credit Agricole Cheuvreux bank.


"While there are no signs of a change today, with the United
States suffering a housing market slowdown, the trend has not had
a major negative impact on the rest of the economy."


He added that Friday's surge also reflected "an upward revision
to eurozone growth prospects" and reports of takeover moves,
notably a possible tie-up between Societe Generale of France and
Italian bank UniCredit.


In London the FTSE 100 index gained 0.72 percent to end the week
at 6,486.80 while in Paris the CAC 40 rose 1.88 percent to
5,938.90, its highest reading since January 2001. The Frankfurt
Dax added 1.38 percent to reach 7,342.54.


The Euro Stoxx 50 index of leading eurozone shares jumped 1.77
percent to 4,416.79.


On the currency market the euro hovered close its record against
the dollar, with analysts predicting that a new peak will be
reached next week. The current record for the euro is 1.3666
dollars, set on December 30, 2004.


The single European currency in late trade was at 1.3602 dollars
against 1.3609 late Thursday in New York.


In New York the leading Dow Jones Industrial Average share index,
already riding record highs, approached the 13,000 mark as
investors' cheered a flurry of upbeat profit reports from
corporate America.


A strong profit report from Internet search giant Google late
Thursday and solid earnings performances from pharmaceutical
heavyweight Pfizer and McDonald's on Friday helped boost investor
sentiment.


At 1422 GMT, the Dow index was up 0.89 percent to 12,922.65,
within reach of 13,000 points. The blue-chip index had struck a
record closing high of 12,808.63 points on Thursday.


The tech-rich Nasdaq composite had gained 0.77 percent to
2,524.74.


In London pharmaceutical group Alliance Boots surged 7.0 percent
to close at 1,125 pence as US and British private equity groups
launched rival cash bids approaching 11.0 billion pounds.


The banking sector was bolstered by rumours that Societe Generale
of France could be a takeover target for UniCredit of Italy.


Lloyds TSB rose 0.95 percent to close at 583 pence while Standard
Chartered added 3.95 percent to reach 1,528 pence.


In Paris Societe Generale jumped 7.74 percent to 156.09 euros on
reports that it was in tie-up talks with UniCredit. But Societe
Generale later denied that any such negotiations were taking
place.


Steel group Vallourec rose 9.16 percent to 207 euros on renewed
speculation it might be of interest to the world's leading steel
producer Arcilor Mittal. Arceilor Mittal shares gained 4.69
percent on the day to reach 40.66 euros.


In Frankfurt shares in engineering giant Siemens shot up 4.15
percent to 90.35 euros after the company, plagued by corruption
allegations, said its former chief executive and current
supervisory board chief Heinrich von Pierer was to quit next
week.


Elswhere there were gains of 1.77 percent to a record 4,630.43 in
Brussels, 1.75 percent to a record 15,080.9 in Madrid, 1.54
percent to a record 9,399.75 on the Swiss Market Index, 1.46
percent to 536.36 in Amsterdam and 1.34 percent to 43,549 in
Milan.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
rose 0.46 percent to 17,452.62 points, having lost 1.67 percent
on Thursday on worries that China's rapid growth would require
further interest rate rises.


Hong Kong's key Hang Seng Index closed 1.31 percent higher to
20,566.59 points on Friday, rebounding from Thursday's steep
decline.

