

Russian industrial and metals giant Renova Group announced Friday
that it was buying a holding totalling about 32 percent in Swiss
engineering group Sulzer for an undisclosed amount.


The asset management group controlled by Russian billionaire
Victor Vekselberg said in a statement "it is acquiring a
position" in Sulzer amounting to about 18 percent of Sulzer
shares and an additional 14 percent in the form of "physical
delivery options."


Renova underlined in the statement from its Zurich management
office that it was not currently planning a further increase or a
takeover.


Sulzer said late Friday that it had been informed by a Renova
representative that the Russian group "intends to acquire" the
shareholding and option combination.


"Sulzer has so far not received an official notification of
stockholding interest in conpliance with the federal law on stock
exchanges and stock brokerage," the Swiss group added.


The shares will be held by Everest, a joint venture set up by
Renova and Austrian investment company Victory Holding, the
Russian compnay said.


Both firms have in the past been linked with an interest in
Sulzer and have been acquiring a stake in another Swiss
technology firm, Oerlikon, in recent months.


Vekselberg described Sulzer as an "industrial pearl."


Renova's chief investment officer Vladimir Kuznetzov said the
Russian group supported Sulzer's expansion plans and its
"skilled" management.


"Sulzer fits perfectly with our investment strategy in the
industrial technology sector," he added.


Sulzer announced a 73-percent increase in annual net profit in
2006 to 221 million Swiss francs (138 million euros, 181 million
dollars) on a turnover of 2.8 billion Swiss francs.


Vekselberg recently transferred his residence to Switzerland and
was rated as the third richest person in the country by a Swiss
business magazine, Bilan in 2006, with a fortune evaluated at 14
to 15 billion Swiss francs.

