

Fighting between Ethiopian forces and Islamist insurgents in the
Somali capital killed at least 113 civilians and left 229 wounded
in three days, a local human rights group said Friday.


The United Nations warned of a humanitarian catastrophe with
corpses left rotting in the streets, where rival fighters
continued pounding each other with heavy artillery.


Sudan Ali Ahmed, chairman of the Elman Peace and Human Rights
Organisation, told AFP his group arrived at the toll by collating
figures from hospitals, other humanitarian groups and counting
bodies abandoned in the streets.


Ethiopian troops helped the UN-backed transitional government to
oust Islamists from Mogadishu in January. But since then fighting
has steadily grown worse as Islamist insurgents and clan warlords
have vowed to oust the Ethiopians.


"We call upon the Ethiopians and the insurgents to stop fighting
without any conditions," Ahmed said.


"Otherwise, if they continue fighting many people will die and
that is pointless," he said.


Residents said the non-stop shelling that erupted at mid-day
(0900 GMT) was the longest in three days of fighting that broke
out on Tuesday, but abated briefly on Wednesday.


"A mortar shell landed in a house in Sanaa junction, killing four
people and wounded three others, including the father of the
family," said Abdulkadir Ali, a resident in northern Mogadishu.


An earlier toll put the death count at 43 and hundreds wounded in
three days of fighting. The clashes began on Tuesday, followed by
a lull on Wednesday which was shattered on Thursday.


The worsening situation in Mogadishu has led UN humanitarian
officials to warn of a looming disaster.


The UN refugee agency said more than 321,000 people have fled
Mogadishu since February 1 when the fighting first began.


"Unless something is done, the humanitarian crisis is going to
turn into a catastrophe very soon," Eric Laroche, the UN's
humanitarian coordinator in Somalia, told journalists Thursday.


The UN said Somali government forces were blocking relief
supplies and that  UN aircraft were being shot at. Addis Ababa
rejected the claims.


In Mogadishu, bodies were left lying in the streets, while a
cholera or diarrhoea epidemic was taking hold and new flooding
was likely soon, it added.


More Ethiopian troops moved into Mogadishu to reinforce their
colleagues a day after a suspected suicide bomber attacked their
base south of the capital.


The Islamists have vowed to wage a prolonged guerrilla war
against the Ethiopians and the capital is in the grips of fierce
fighting, touching off an exodus of civilians.


The Hawiye clan elders have accused the Ethiopians of refusing to
withdraw from the frontline, attacking the insurgents and
shattering a fragile ceasefire.


But an official close to Ethiopian Prime Minister Meles Zenawi's
office told AFP the two sides were "still in secret, intermittent
talks."


Elders have said at least 1,000 people have died and more than
4,000 have been wounded in the fighting.


In Addis Ababa, Somali President Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmed said the
goverment was determined to  wipe out the insurgents blamed for
insecurity in the seaside capital, home to about a million
people.


"And unless we do action, Mogadishu will never be safe for anyone
-- the public or the government -- and that is why we are
fighting," Yusuf told reporters.


Somalia has lacked an effective government since the ousting of
dictator Mohamed Siad Barre in 1991 touched off a power struggle
that exploded into inter-clan warfare.


Meanwhile, the African Union envoy to Somalia Mohamed Foum held
talks with Prime Minister Ali Mohamed Gedi in Mogadishu on the
deployment of more AU peacekeepers in the lawless country.


Some 1,500 AU peacekeepers from Uganda deployed in the lawless
capital early March have failed to stem the surge in violence.
They have instead taken positions in the main airport, sea port,
presidential palace and a key access road to the airport.


The Ugandans are an advance contingent of about 8,000
peacekeepers the pan- African body plans to deploy in Somalia to
help President Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmed maintain control of the
country.


The UN's humanitarian office said it would meet with Somali
government leaders on Monday about the deteriorating situation.

