

Australia captain Ricky Ponting won the toss and elected to bat
against New Zealand in the World Cup Super Eights match at the
Grenada National Stadium here Friday.


This was the last match of the second round for both sides, who'd
each already qualified for the semi-finals.


Double-defending champions Australia, unbeaten in 26 World Cup
matches, recalled Shane Watson, after a left-calf muscle injury
had seen the all-rounder miss the last three games, in place of
stand-in Brad Hodge.


New Zealand were without strike fast bowler Shane Bond, who'd
been vomiting Thursday night, because of a stomach complaint.


Team spokesman John Durning stressed that Bond's withdrawal was
for medical reasons only after Sri Lanka controversially rested
key bowlers Chaminda Vaas and Muttiah Muralitharan for Monday's
seven-wicket defeat by Australia.


Pace bowler Mark Gillespie took Bond's place


New Zealand, called up another quick in Michael Mason for all-
rounder Jacob Oram, out with a right heel problem, in the other
change to the side that beat South Africa by five wickets here
Saturday.


New Zealand have won their last three one-day internationals
against Australia following thei clean sweep on home soil in
February's Chappell-Hadlee series.


Victory in Friday's match would see New Zealand draw level with
standings leaders Australia on 12 points.


But they would need to win by a huge margin to go ahead on run-
rate and upset the likely semi-final pairings which currently see
New Zealand playing Sri Lanka in Jamaica on Tuesday and Australia
up against South Africa on Wednesday in St Lucia.


The World Cup final takes place in Barbados on April 28, a week
on Saturday.


Teams


Australia: Adam Gilchrist (wk), Matthew Hayden, Ricky Ponting
(capt), Michael Clarke, Andrew Symonds, Shane Watson, Michael
Hussey, Brad Hogg, Nathan Bracken, Shaun Tait, Glenn McGrath


New Zealand: Stephen Fleming (capt), Peter Fulton, Ross Taylor,
Scott Styris, Craig McMillan, James Franklin, Brendon McCullum
(wk), Daniel Vettori, Mark Gillespie, Jeetan Patel, Michael Mason


Umpires: Aleem Dar (PAK), Asad Rauf (PAK)


TV umpire: Billy Doctrove (WIS)


Match referee: Mike Procter (RSA)


Reserve umpire: Daryl Harper (AUS)


Pitch conditions: Good surface but should become easier for
batting as game wears on. May offer some seam movement in opening
overs.


Weather forecast: Sunny, windy, chance of a thunderstorm.
Temperatures rising to 29 degrees Celsius

