

A farmer was wounded on Friday when a bomb exploded near
Jerusalem at a site where tracts were found denouncing a gay
pride parade planned for the Holy City in June, police said.


The device exploded near a convent in the town of Beit Jamal,
west of Jerusalem. The farmer, who was working nearby, was taken
to hospital with a light wound to his foot.


The pamphlets denounced the planned June 21 parade being
organised by a group called Jerusalem Open House, which describes
itself as a grassroots, activist organisation of lesbians, gay
men, bisexuals, transgendered people and allies.


Speaking in New York, Jerusalem Open House executive director Noa
Sattah said the group "could not more strongly condemn this act
of violence and hatred directed at us. This violent act is just
one example of the religious bigotry, prejudice and violence
lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people across the world
are confronted with every day.


"Morally bankrupt religious bigotry will never deter us from our
struggle for freedom of expression and full and equal civil and
religious rights. We urge the Jerusalem police to find the
perpetrators of this despicable action and bring them to justice.


"We hope for a full and speedy recovery of the individual who was
injured in the attack."


Last year, a much-delayed parade through the streets of Jerusalem
was called off after violent protests by ultra-Orthodox Jews and
denunciations by other religious leaders of what they branded an
abomination to the sanctity of the Holy City.


The event was instead staged under tight security on November 10
inside a stadium.


During a 2005 parade in Jerusalem an ultra-Orthodox Jew stabbed
and wounded three participants, and was later jailed for 12
years.


Despite the hostility to such events in Jerusalem -- from some
Christian and Muslim circles as well as ultra-Orthodox Jewish
ones -- gay pride marches are held in Israel's commercial capital
Tel Aviv each year in a carnival atmosphere.

