

Australia were 257-4 after 40 overs in their World Cup Super
Eights match against New Zealand at the Grenada National Stadium
here on Friday.


Michael Hussey was on 14 with Andrew Symonds on 11.


The first man out was opener Adam Gilchrist caught by Mark
Gillespie off James Franklin for just one with the total on seven
in the second over.


Captain Ricky Ponting put on 137 for the second wicket with
Matthew Hayden before he was out in the 23rd over for 66 off 70
balls when he was caught by Ross Taylor off Jeetan Patel.


Hayden was third man out having made 103, his third century of
the tournament, when he was caught and bowled by Scott Styris
with the score on 216 in the 33rd over.


Michael Clarke then became Franklin's second victim when he was
clean-bowled for 49 in the 36th over with the total on 233.


Ponting won the toss and elected to bat in a match which was the
last game of the second round for both sides, who'd each already
qualified for the semi- finals.


Double-defending champions Australia, unbeaten in 26 World Cup
matches, recalled Shane Watson, after a left-calf muscle injury
had seen the all-rounder miss the last three games, in place of
stand-in Brad Hodge.


New Zealand were without strike fast bowler Shane Bond because of
a stomach complaint.


Victory in Friday's match would see New Zealand draw level with
standings leaders Australia on 12 points.


But they would need to win by a huge margin to go ahead on run-
rate and upset the likely semi-final pairings which currently see
New Zealand playing Sri Lanka in Jamaica on Tuesday and Australia
up against South Africa on Wednesday in St Lucia.


The World Cup final takes place in Barbados on April 28, a week
on Saturday.

