

A Briton extradited from Australia pleaded guilty in a US court
Friday to criminal charges stemming from his alleged involved in
a "warez" group promoting pirated software, officials said.


Hew Raymond Griffiths, 44, a British national who had been living
in Bateau Bay, Australia, pleaded guilty in federal court in
Alexandria, Virginia, to criminal copyright infringement charges,
Assistant Attorney General Alice Fisher said.


He faces a maximum sentence of 10 years in prison and a
500,000-dollar fine. US District Judge Claude Hilton set
sentencing for June 22.


Griffiths was extradited from Australia in February 2007, in one
of the first extraditions to US soil for an intellectual property
offense.


He had spent nearly three years incarcerated in Australia while
fighting his extradition, according to a Justice Department
statement.


Officials said Griffiths was the leader of a group known as
DrinkOrDie, believed to be one of the oldest software piracy
groups on the Internet.


DrinkOrDie was founded in Russia in 1993 and expanded
internationally throughout the 1990s.


The group was dismantled by a joint operation of US law
enforcement in December 2001 with Britain, Finland, Norway,
Sweden and Australia, with more than 70 raids conducted.


To date, "Operation Buccaneer" has resulted in more than 30
felony convictions in the United States and 11 convictions of
foreign nationals overseas, US officials said.


Griffiths, according to officials, was known by the screen
nickname "Bandido," and was an "elder" in the highest echelons of
the underground Internet piracy community, also known as the
warez scene.


He had held leadership roles in several other well-known warez
groups, including Razor1911 and RiSC, officials said.

