

The race to succeed Italy begins in earnest this weekend as the
top eight countries in the world begin their Fed Cup quests.


The big news is the return of the Williams sisters who will line
up side-by-side for the United States team for the first time in
four years.


They face last season's finalists Belgium in Delray Beach and
will line up as the overwhelming favourites given the visitors
are without world number one Justine Henin and former number one
Kim Clijsters.


Belgium reached the final a year ago on the strength of their two
stars' play but with Clijsters missing out on the title match,
Henin could not stop her team going down 3-2 to Italy, despite
winning both her rubbers.


Shorn of both the star pair and with Kirsten Flipkens, ranked
well outside the top 100, as their number one player, few if
anyone will be giving Belgium a chance of progressing.


Holders Italy meanwhile will have to do without their top player
Francesca Schiavone as they host China, also missing their top
talent Li Na.


China is making its debut in the elite group but will also be
missing number two player Zheng Jie for the tricky trip to Italy.


Missing players are the talk of all the ties as France are
without their top player Amelie Mauresmo for the visit of Japan,
although the in-form Tatiana Golovin will spearhead the team.


Japan are counting on veteran Ai Sugiama and Akiko Morigami to
try to derail the French bid.


Russia, as expected, will be without their top player Maria
Sharapova, although there is nothing new there - Sharapova has
yet to make her Fed Cup bow for the country of her birth.


Instead Nadia Petrova and Svetlana Kuznetsova will play key roles
as they tackle Spain in Moscow.

