

Pfizer announced Friday a dip in quarterly profits from a year
ago as restructuring costs and a prior one-time tax benefit left
its net earnings 17.5 percent below last year's level.


The world's largest pharmaceutical company reported a profit of
3.39 billion dollars for the first quarter of 2007.


Revenues meanwhile increased 6.2 percent to 12.47 billion dollars
as Pfizer boosted sales of its cholesterol treatment Lipitor and
the anti-inflammatory Celebrex, as well as new drugs for cancer,
severe pain and epilepsy.


The profit for the January-March quarter excluding one-time costs
was 68 cents per share, better than the average Wall Street
estimate of 57 cents.


"We had a good quarter, with adjusted income driven by a number
of factors: growth in our key in-line and new medicines, the
favorable impact of foreign exchange, lower sales rebates, and
relatively flat operating expenses compared to the year-ago
period," said Jeffrey Kindler, chairman and chief executive
officer.


"The low level of expense growth in the quarter reflected both
the early benefits of our cost-cutting programs and the timing of
investments in (research and development) and promotional
programs this year."


But Pfizer said future results will be impacted by the earlier-
than-expected loss of exclusivity for Norvasc, a treatment for
high blood pressure and angina. This will lead to a loss of about
1.2 billion dollars in revenues for 2007.


For 2008, the company said it is reaffirming its outlook, subject
to litigation over its patents for Lipitor and the impact of
losses from Norvasc.


Pfizer earlier this year announced 10,000 job cuts, as part of a
cost-cutting drive designed to restore innovation at the US
pharmaceutical giant whose pipeline of new drugs is running dry.

