

The European single currency remained within striking distance of
its all time high against the dollar on Friday as dealers said a
new record was just a matter of time.


The euro was at 1.3602 dollars in late European trading, which
was not far off its historic record of 1.3666 dollars set on
December 30, 2004. It had risen in late morning trading to a new
post-December 30, 2004 high of 1.3637 dollars.


Gavin Friend, an analyst at Commerzbank said a new record was
only a matter of days.


The dollar was changing hands at 118.83 yen, against 118.50 yen
on Thursday.


In Berlin, finance ministers from the 13-nation eurozone shrugged
off the surging strength of the euro.


"The growth situation in our area is improving, is robust, is
broadening," said Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker
after chairing a meeting of eurozone finance ministers and
central bankers in Berlin.


However ECB president Jean-Claude Trichet reiterated on that
excessive exchange rate volatility is "undesirable.


"Excessive volatility and disorderly movements in exchange rates
are undesirable for economic growth," he told journalists after
the meeting.


Trichet said the yen should reflect the country's growing
economic strength as the Japanese currency hovered close to its
all-time low against the euro.


"We believe the Japanese economy is on a sustainable recovery
path and that the exchange rate should reflect these economic
fundamentals," he told journalists after a meeting with eurozone
finance ministers.


The prospect of rising interest rates in the eurozone has
propelled the euro higher against other major currencies as many
investors borrow in low interest rate currencies for higher-
yielding euro-denominated investments.


Many investors are switching away from the dollar because
American borrowing costs appeared to be heading lower, dealers
said.


Owing to strengthening European economies, particularly in
Germany, analysts believe the European Central Bank will likely
raise rates soon from the current level of 3.75 percent. In
contrast, many market watchers reckon the US Federal Reserve will
cut rates from the current 5.25 percent.


"As long as the ECB needs to hike interest rates euro-bearish
comments will only have a minor impact," analysts at BNP Paribas
told Thomson Financial's AFX newswire.


The pound sterling, meanwhile, pulled back from a recent 26-year
pinnacle against the dollar following disappointing retail sales
data.


British retail sales rose by 0.3 percent in March from the figure
in February, official data showed, which undercut analysts'
forecasts had been for a monthly gain of 0.5 percent.


Sterling had struck 2.0133 dollars on Wednesday to reach its
highest reading since June 1981 as dealers priced in a likely
rate rise in May following stronger-than-expected inflation data.


Late on Friday the euro changed hands at 1.3602 dollars, against
1.3609 dollars late Thursday, 161.60 yen (161.27), 0.6787 pounds
(0.6793) and 1.6433 Swiss francs (1.6394).


The dollar stood at 118.83 yen (118.50) and 1.2084 Swiss francs
(1.2044).


The pound was being traded at 2.0048 dollars (2.0032).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold rose to 691.40
dollars per ounce, from 681.90 dollars late on Thursday.

