

New Zealand fast bowler Shane Bond was ruled out of Friday's
World Cup Super Eights match against champions Australia with a
stomach complaint.


Team spokesman John Durning told AFP at the Grenada National
Stadium, that Bond, who'd been vomiting, was being seen by
doctors and was unlikely to come to the ground.


Durning stressed that New Zealand's decision was not comparable
to Sri Lanka's controversial move in omitting key bowlers
Chaminda Vaas and Muttiah Muralitharan from the team that lost by
seven wickets to Australia here Monday.


"If there is one team Shane really likes playing against, it's
Australia," Durning said.


Fellow quick Mark Gillespie took Bond's place.


Both Australia and New Zealand have already qualified for the
semi-finals.


Bond has taken 12 wickets at under 13 apiece this tournament,
with an exceptional economy rate of 2.58 runs per over, the best
in the competition.


Unusually amongst current bowlers, the 31-year-old former
policeman has a better one-day record against Australia than for
his career as a whole with 34 wickets at an average of under 14
apiece, compared to 124 wickets at 19 against all- comers.


In January, Bond took a hat-trick against Australia in a one-day
international in Hobart, although his haul couldn't prevent a
105-run defeat.


And three of his four returns of five wickets or more in an
innings in one- dayers have come against Australia, including a
dramatic six for 23 during the 2003 World Cup in Port Elizabeth -
a match New Zealand lost by 96 runs.


Both double-defending champions Australia and New Zealand had
already qualified for next week's semi-finals ahead of Friday's
match.


The World Cup final is scheduled to take place in Barbados on
Saturday, April 28.

