

Charity group Action Aid International said Friday it had
temporarily suspended operations in western Kenya, where around
150 people have died in the past six months as a result of land
clashes.


Around 50,000 people have been displaced from the Mount Elgon
region since 2006 when a local group, Sabaot Land Defence Forces
(SLDF), began demanding a government land distribution scheme be
cancelled.


The SLDF said the distribution was done unfairly, displacing
several families from their ancestral farmlands.


"The current situation in Mt Elgon has jeopardised the
organisation's ability to discharge its mandate of building
capacities of the poor and excluded to secure their basic needs
and claim their rights," said Joyce Umbima, the head of Action
Aid International's local chapter.


"We are sad that women and children have bore the brunt of the
violence and condemn the reported rape of women and girls," she
added.


Umbima said the charity finally decided to withdraw after one of
her local workers was killed under unclear circumstances on
Monday.


National Security Minister John Michuki has deployed additional
security to the area to help stem escalating violence.


Disagreements over land have been a source of clashes in recent
years in Kenya, with rival tribes fighting pitched battles to
control it.


The government has been accused of favouring certain tribes in
the distribution of land.


President Mwai Kibaki's government, which came to power in 2003,
has failed to address the land issue, despite it being one of its
key pre-election pledges ahead of polls in December.

