

A Pentagon inquiry in 2005 found former deputy defense secretary
Paul Wolfowitz did not misuse his office in recommending his
girlfriend for a contract to advise on Iraq, a spokesman said
Friday.


Wolfowitz, who is fighting to keep his job as president of the
World Bank, acknowledged to the Pentagon inspector general that
Shaha Riza, a World Bank employee, was "a personal friend," said
Bryan Whitman.


"But the recommendation in and of itself, by the IG's
determination, was not a misuse of his office," he said.


Wolfowitz is embroiled in controversy at the World Bank for
arranging lucrative pay raises and promotions for Riza after
taking over as the bank president.


Whitman said the 90-day contract, which was not subjected to
bidding, was awarded to Riza in 2003 just after the US invasion
of Iraq and covered only her expenses.


He said about 17,000 dollars was allocated for expenses, but did
not know how much was paid out. Riza visited Baghdad as a
consultant for US military contractor Science Applications
International Corp (SAIC).


The inspector general (IG) opened an investigation in 2005 in
response to allegations in the media that Wolfowitz "may have
used his office for private gain," he said.


"The IG investigation was completed in May, a couple of months
later, and what they determined was that Miss Riza was uniquely
qualified to provide the required services, and was also
recommended by others," he said.


Whitman said he did not know if the probe found that Wolfowitz
recommended her the job, or if Wolfowitz was interviewed as part
of the investigation.

