

A Mandarin-language US television network asked Ottawa Friday to
expel a senior Chinese diplomat for attempting to block its
licensing approval and furtively hampering press freedoms in
Canada.


"We call on the Canadian government to immediately stop the
Chinese embassy from attacking our Canadian business operations
and to expel embassy official Mr. Huang Huikang for blatantly
interfering in Canadian policy," said Joe Wang, president of New
Tang Dynasty TV Canada (NTDTV).


Citing documents obtained from the wife of a Chinese diplomat who
defected to Canada last month, he accused Huang of systematically
trying to quell any criticism of China in the country.


He lamented that Chinese embassy officials "continuously attacked
NTDTV's business operations," "barred our reporters from
community events" and "slandered our station to (Canadian)
government officials and businesses."


He also shared with reporters a copy of letter written by Huang
to his staff calling on them to try to "knock down" NTDTV's
attempt to enter the Canadian market.


New York-based New Tang Dynasty, which is usually very critical
of Beijing, has been granted a Canadian broadcast license, but is
still negotiating with local carriers for a channel.


A Canadian government spokesman was not immediately available for
comment.


But relations between Beijing and Ottawa have been strained
recently over accusations that China is spying on Canadian
corporations, the jailing of a Canadian imam in China this week,
Canada's failure to deport a Chinese fugitive, talks between
Canada and the Dalai Lama, and stalled trade negotiations.

