

Shifting winds could ease pressure on ships carrying 300
commercial seal hunters for Canada's annual harvest trapped for
days by crushing ice off the coast of Newfoundland province,
authorities said Friday.


The Canadian Coast Guard told reporters in a teleconference they
expect winds to shift direction over the weekend, causing the ice
pack to loosen and possibly free the more than 100 trapped
vessels.


"This would certainly help our rescue efforts," said Captain
Marc-Andre Poisson, director of Canadian Coast Guard operations.


A sudden shift in wind and two recent storms tightened the ice
pack along Newfoundland's northeast coast and southern Labrador a
week ago, endangering vessels off Fogo Island.


Five icebreakers and four helicopters were dispatched to the
region to pick up stranded mariners, and drop food, drinking
water and fuel onto ship decks.


One Coast Guard ship itself became trapped in the ice, one
sealing ship's hull was breached, and five crews abandoned their
damaged buckets, but the lives of mariners are not in danger at
this point, Poisson said.


The vessels were taking part in Canada's controversial Atlantic
harp seal hunt, which was expected to cull 270,000 animals in
April and May.


Demonstrators in Europe and North America have denounced the
"cruelty" of seal hunting.


But Ottawa maintains the hunt poses no threat to the seal
population, which has ballooned over the past three decades to
almost 5.5 million, despite one million being killed in the past
three years.


Up to 20 percent of the Atlantic herd usually nests on thick ice
floes in the southern Gulf of St. Lawrence, but this year
authorities and animal rights groups found only slush and ice
fragments too small to support a newborn pup.


Ice floes in the northern Gulf and around Newfoundland province
were deemed to be in good condition ahead of the April 4 hunting
season start.

