

The United States welcomed a renewed North Korea pledge to start
shutting down its nuclear program once a banking dispute is
settled, but urged the communist state to act quickly.


"The statement is positive," State Department spokesman Tom Casey
said following North Korea's promise to honor the terms of a six-
nation, February 13 agreement to begin abandonining its nuclear
weapons program.


"Glad to hear that they are on record again as saying not only do
they support and intend to fulfil their obligations under the
February 13 agreement, but that they intend to do so quickly,"
Casey said.


"The key now is that they finish out the arrangements with their
bankers and actually move forward with the actions required," he
said.


In its second such message in a week, North Korea vowed Friday to
invite UN atomic agency inspectors into the country the moment it
can confirm that its funds, which had been frozen in a Macau bank
as a result of US sanctions, have been unblocked.


A multinational agreement on scrapping the nuclear program is in
limbo because of the dispute over the 25 million dollars in Banco
Delta Asia (BDA).


The US Treasury blacklisted BDA in September 2005, alleging that
some of the North Korean accounts there contained the proceeds of
money laundering and counterfeiting.


In an effort to make progress on the nuclear issue, Washington
announced last week the money is available for collection or
transfer. But foreign banks are reluctant to accept the
transferred cash for fear of being tainted by suspect money.


Casey reiterated US denials that Washington had any role in
holding up the release of the funds.


"Clearly they have not finalized it yet, but certainly we think
there is every reason that they should be able to do so," he
said.

