

Dutch Finance Minister Wouter Bos insisted Friday that the
central bank would review any foreign takeover bids for ABN Amro
strictly on merit, amid EU concerns about protectionism.


The Dutch central bank fuelled fears of political interference in
takeover bids for ABN Amro this week by voicing reservations on a
possible approach from a foreign consortium, describing it as
risky and complicated for shareholders.


"This was an unfortunate misunderstanding," Bos told journalists
on the sidelines of an EU finance ministers' meeting in Berlin,
adding that the central bank had assured him it would review all
bids in an "unbiased and objective" manner.


The European Commission warned the central bank on Thursday
against political interference, which it said could tarnish The
Netherlands' free-market friendly credentials.


While the Commission regretted any EU member "going down the road
of protectionism," it would be "even more disappointing" if the
Dutch did so because they had been the driving force behind new
rules on cross-border banking takeovers, a Commission spokesman
said.


Those rules, which were adopted last month, were drawn up largely
in reaction to attempts by the former head of the Bank of Italy,
Antonio Fazio, to block ABN Amro's takeover in 2005 of an Italian
bank.


Now ABN Amro finds itself at the centre of a possible bidding
war, with a consortium of three foreign banks weighing a counter-
offer for the Dutch bank that would thwart takeover plans by
British banking group Barclays.

