

US Defence Secretary Robert Gates on Friday urged Iraqi Prime
Minister Nuri al- Maliki to seek national reconciliation, and
warned that American troops would not fight on in the country
indefinitely.


"Our commitment to Iraq is long-term, but it is not a commitment
to have our young men and women patrolling Iraqi streets open-
endedly," Gates told reporters after meeting Maliki in Baghdad's
fortified Green Zone.


Gates said that he had spoken to the Shiite premier about
"reaching out to the Sunnis," and told him that recent US troop
reinforcements were designed to create space for political
progress, not just to end the conflict.


"The surge is a strategy for buying time for progress towards
justice and reconciliation in Iraq," he said, while acknowledging
that a recent spate of insurgent bomb attacks had been a setback.


Gates also met top US generals and his Iraqi counterpart, Defence
Minister Abdel Qader Jassim Mohammed, and afterwards defended the
two-month-old "surge" strategy against critics outside Iraq who
see it as a failure.


"It's not a surprise that the results are mixed at this point,"
he said, blaming the bombings on the Al-Qaeda network. "We
expected tough times."


On Thursday in Washington, Senate Democratic majority leader
Harry Reid bluntly said of Iraq "this war is lost" -- an opinion
disputed by Gates.


"I have great respect for Senator Reid, but on the issue of
whether the war is lost I respectfully disagree," Gates said.


Following the brief encounter with reporters, on the second day
of an unannounced visit to Iraq, Gates left the Green Zone by US
military helicopter.

