

The world's two most populous countries, India and China, began
another round of talks Friday to resolve their decades-old border
dispute, an official said.


India says China occupies 38,000 square kilometres (15,200 square
miles) of its territory in Kashmir, while Beijing claims 90,000
square kilometres of the remote Indian state of Arunachal
Pradesh.


This is the 10th round of talks between the two sides since India
and China appointed special representatives in 2003 to speed up a
resolution to the boundary dispute, a legacy of their brief but
bitter 1962 conflict.


A formal ceasefire line was never established after the 1962, but
the border has remained mostly peaceful after agreements were
signed in 1993 and 1996.


The Indian delegation at the talks was led by National Security
Advisor M.K.Narayanan while China's Vice Foreign Minister Dai
Bingguo headed Beijing's team, said an Indian foreign ministry
official who wished to remain unnamed.


"The preliminary discussions (on Friday) will be followed by
another round of talks Saturday in Ooty," the official said
referring to a popular holiday resort in southern Tamil Nadu
province.


In April 2005, India and China signed an agreement setting out
the "guiding principles" to arrive at a border settlement pact.


During a visit to New Delhi in November, Chinese President Hu
Jintao said both sides would accord priority to resolving the
border row.


Diplomatic ties between the two economic rivals have increased in
recent years with the exchange of many bilateral visits and two-
way trade touching two billion dollars a month, India's trade
minister Kamal Nath told reporters in New Delhi on Friday.


Sources said Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh plans to visit
China this year.

