

Environmental group Greenpeace on Friday crushed 10,000 light
bulbs at Berlin's Brandenburg Gate to highlight the urgent need
to conserve energy and combat global warming.


Greenpeace said it was calling for "an immediate ban" on
conventional light bulbs and demanding tougher European standards
on energy efficiency.


"Light bulbs are an iconic example of the many energy-wasting
products that are sold to consumers. (A light bulb) wastes 95
percent of its energy generating heat instead of light," it said
in a statement.


The group, which crushed the bulbs with a bulldozer, urged
consumers to switch to energy-saving bulbs, saying this move
alone would "result in shutting down 25 polluting power stations
in Europe."


Greenpeace said the protest marked the start of its international
campaign to discourage the use of energy-guzzling devices.


It was timed to coincide with the opening of a two-day
international conference on energy efficiency in the German
capital on Friday.


The meeting is being hosted by Germany as current president of
both the European Union and the G8 club of most industrialised
nations.


German Environment Minister Sigmar Gabriel said in a statement it
was vital for the industrialised world to work with developing
nations to promote the efficient use of energy.


"We should cooperate with all big countries, in particular India
and China, to help them to reconcile development and the
protection of the environment and global climate."


German Chancellor Angela Merkel boasted recently that she has
switched to energy-saving lightbulbs in her home.

