

Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni Friday defended his backing for
plans to clear forests to allow an Indian group to set up
sugarcane plantations after rioting by green activists left three
dead.


"We need to balance the needs of preserving the eco-system with
the needs for social transformation - changing the society from
peasant to middle class, skilled working class society," Museveni
said in a commentary in the state-run New Vision newspaper.


"This means that the majority of the people should shift from
agriculture to industries and services. Having too many people in
agriculture as we do now (at 82 percent) is one of the
characteristics of backwardness," Museveni said.


Museveni supports controversial plans to hand over 7,000 of the
30,000 hectares (75,000 acres) in Mabira Forest Reserve east of
the capital Kampala to the Indian-owned Mehta Group to grow
sugarcane.


The move has angered conservationists and opposition lawmakers,
who have demonstrated recently against the handover.


On April 12, at least three people were killed in a demonstration
to preserve the forest and last week, Ugandan police fired live
bullets, tear gas canisters and arrested 23 people in a similar
demonstation.


Two opposition lawmakers were charged with incitement, but
enviromentalists have showed no sign of letting up.


Museveni said he targeted the forest land because there was no
other land to plant sugarcane for industrial use.


"Why, then, use forest lands? This is because there is no free
land. Much of the land is occupied by peasants who are engaged in
traditional, subsistence farming. Both physically and legally we
cannot access this land," he said.


Furious conservationists have warned that further encroachment of
the forest would threaten up to 312 species of trees, 287 bird
species and nearly 200 kinds of butterflies.

