

The Catholic and Greek Orthodox churches on Friday condemned the
murders of three Christian evangelists in Turkey this week,
calling them a "mad act" and "a violation of religious freedoms".


"I think all Turkish people have condemned this mad act, the work
of a fanatical minority," Cardinal Tarcisio Bertone, the pope's
right-hand man and the Vatican's secretary of state, was cited by
the I-Media agency as saying.


Bertone referred to the victims as "martyrs" but added that "we
must not ruin the results of the pope's visit to Turkey (in
December), which led to a connection and an effort to understand
Christianity on the part of the majority of the Turkish
population".


Meanwhile, a statement from the Holy Synod of the Greek Orthodox
Chuch on Friday condemned the murders as a "violation of
religious freedoms".


It expressed hope that Turkish leaders' remarks following the
attacks "would lead to guarantees for religious freedom in
Turkey, a necessary condition for the country's democratisation
and its entrance into Europe".


The Greek Orthodox church is opposed to Turkey's membership of
the European Union.


The synod also expressed its "anguish over the possible religious
and political motives" of the killings, noting that they followed
last year's murder of a Catholic priest and January's killing of
a Armenian journalist.


The three people killed in the eastern Turkish town of Malatya
were members of an evangelist Protestant community. According to
several accounts, they were tortured and interrogated about their
missionary activities before they died.


Ten murder suspects were questioned by police on Friday.

