

Heavily-armed men attacked a French-run uranium prospecting camp
in Niger on Friday, killing a security guard and injuring three
others, officials said.


Some 20-30 men demanding a better deal for local Tuareg people
stormed into the camp in three four-wheel drive vehicles and made
off with six cars and a large number of mobile phones.


The raid took place around 3:30 am (0230 GMT) at Imouraren, 85
kilometres (55 miles) south of the main uranium-producing centre
of Arlit, sources said.


A local security guard was killed and three others wounded, one
of them "very seriously", said a spokesman for French nuclear
energy group Areva, which runs Imouraren mine, from Paris.


They attacked the "heart" of the camp housing some 40 Niger and
French scientists, he said. There were a total of 250 people in
the camp.


"It is the first time that something like this has happened in an
exploration camp," he said, adding that security there would be
tightened by the group in conjunction with Niger security forces.


The gunmen said they belonged to a group called the Niger
Movement for Justice, which emerged in February.


They called for the proper implementation of a 1995 accord which
ended a Tuareg rebellion by promising the tribesmen priority in
jobs with local mining companies.


"For the past few weeks we have been noticing this group being
active in the region," the Areva spokesman said. "The Niger
government has tightened security -- we had asked them to -- on
all the sites owned by Areva."


One source said it was the first such raid for many years.


Niger ranks third among world uranium producers, with two large
mines in and around Arlit, both operated by Areva. The one
attacked was its biggest.

