

The senate in the northeastern US state of Vermont passed a
resolution Friday calling on Congress to begin impeachment
proceedings against President George W. Bush, senate officials
said.


The largely symbolic move, which stands little chance of going
much further, was approved by 16 votes to nine and followed a
public rally this week in the state capital Montpelier calling
for Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney to go.


"I was deeply moved by the meeting on Tuesday and I've been a
supporter of this consistently from the beginning," Democratic
Senate President Peter Shumlin told the Vermont Guardian
newspaper.


"There hasn't been a president of the United States of America
who has worked harder for impeachment hearings than President
Bush and Vice President Cheney," he was quoted as saying.


"The neat thing about the Vermont legislature is that we listen
to citizens," he told the newspaper.


A similar resolution has been before the state's House Judiciary
Committee for weeks, but the speaker has reportedly been
reluctant to spend time on the resolution, preferring to discuss
education funding and health care.


Backers hope the resolution -- and similar measures proposed in a
handful of other states -- will send a clear message to the White
House.


"We're not standing here as Vermonters and impeaching the
president, but we are sending a message and denouncing the
actions of this administration," one supporter, Barry Aleshenick,
told the Vermont Guardian.


"It's a matter of getting the ball rolling."


The verdant and mountainous state, which borders Canada and is
the second least- populated state in the country, is best known
for its maple syrup and liberal politics.


Besides the impeachment resolution, other business on the state
legislature's agenda this week included "an act relating to home-
fermented beverage competitions."

