

The UN's top legal adviser on Friday called for a return to
dialogue in divided Lebanon and for the prompt creation of the
tribunal to resolve the 2005 murder of former premier Rafiq
Hariri.


"The establishment of this tribunal will be a victory... for all
the Lebanese," Nicolas Michel said after meeting Prime Minister
Fuad Siniora and parliament speaker Nabih Berri, a leading
opposition figure.


"I hope our efforts will bear fruit" in helping Lebanese leaders
return to dialogue for the "earliest establishment" of the
international court to try suspects in Hariri's murder by a
Beirut car bomb, he said.


Since he arrived in Beirut on Monday, Michel has met all
prominent Lebanese leaders in a bid to unblock months of
political paralysis preventing the Hariri court from being
established.


Billionaire former premier Hariri was killed by a massive bomb
widely blamed on Syria, which was then forced to end nearly 30
years of military and political domination in Lebanon. Syria
denied any involvement in the killing.


The United Nations and Lebanon's government have signed a deal to
set up the tribunal, but this must be ratified by the country's
divided parliament. Berri, a main pro-Syrian figure in the
opposition, refuses to convene parliament.


Hassan Nasrallah, leader of the main opposition party Hezbollah
which is backed by Syria and Iran, said the court in its current
proposed form was "conceived in such a way that it would return
pre-established verdicts."


The Beirut government has called for the UN Security Council to
impose the setting up of the tribunal if the opposition continues
to block it.


Michel said he was leaving Lebanon on Saturday and would brief
the Security Council in New York, which will then rule on the
issue.

