

European Parliament president Hans-Gert Poettering on Friday
urged Bulgarians to take part in European elections next month as
a new poll predicted a huge abstention rate.


Bulgaria only joined the EU on January 1 and on May 20 it is to
choose its 18 deputies to the European parliament. An Alpha
Research poll released Friday said only 27 percent of Bulgarians
would vote and 46 percent said they definitely would not.


"I urge all Bulgarian citizens: make use of your right to vote...
Your future is our common future and our common future is
Europe," Poettering said in a speech to the Bulgarian parliament
as parties officially launched their campaigns.


Low participation can be explained by people's "limited knowledge
of the functioning of the European institutions," political
analyst Ognian Minchev said.


The Alpha Research poll predicted the ruling Socialist party
would win six seats, with the new populist centrist party of
Sofia mayor Boiko Borissov, GERB, taking four or five seats.


The Turkish minority Movement for Rights and Freedoms party, a
major government coalition partner, is expected to carry three
seats, followed by the ultra- nationalist formation Ataka and the
centrist National Movement Simeon II party of former King Simeon
Saxe Coburg with two seats each.


Poettering also urged the government to continue reforms,
especially of the judiciary and to pursue the fight against
corruption.


The European Commission is due to issue in June a key assessment
of Bulgaria's reform progress in several areas, including the
fight against crime and corruption and reform of the judiciary.

