

A group of Russian parliamentarians will visit Estonia on Monday
to look into the unrest surrounding the removal of a Soviet war
memorial, the Interfax news agency reported, quoting the speaker
of the Duma lower house of parliament.


The delegation will inform the Estonian side about a resolution
passed on Friday condemning the removal of the memorial as a
"blasphemous violation" and will see first-hand the situation on
the ground, the speaker of parliament, Boris Gryzlov, said.


"We are especially worried about the fate of detained Russian
citizens and our compatriots," he said, without giving details.


Estonian parliamentary speaker Ene Ergma said the visit would
help "dispel the misunderstandings" the Russian authorities have
about the removal of the monument, and ease tensions between the
two countries.


"Our meeting will explain to the Russian representatives that
Estonia does not intend to demolish the monument but move it to a
more suitable location," Ergma told AFP.


The site where the monument used to stand was "absolutely
unsuitable," she said.


"It's the noisiest place in town -- a busy downtown bus stop
which recently has become a venue for rowdy political meetings,
with people drinking vodka and carrying placards of Stalin."


Ergma and Gryzlov agreed in a phone conversation Saturday to
refrain from making any further political declarations about the
monument in their legislative assemblies until the Duma visit to
Tallinn on Monday, the Estonian speaker said.


Gryzlov announced the visit by the Russian lawmakers after
President Vladimir Putin expressed "serious concern" following
rioting in the Estonian capital.


In a phone conversation with Putin, German Chancellor Angela
Merkel called for restraint on both sides.

