

Bayern Munich have signed Italian World Cup winner Luca Toni from
AC Fiorentina in a deal worth 18 million euros, it was reported
on Saturday.


The 29-year-old striker, who has scored 12 goals in 27
internationals, has signed a five-contract and will reportedly
earn 5.5 million euros per season according to German magazine
Sport-Bild.


The forward is believed to have made his decision on Friday
evening and chosen the German giants over European rivals AC
Milan, Juventus and Inter Milan, who were also bidding for his
signature.


Having been part of Italy's 2006 World Cup squad, Toni scored two
goals in the quarter-finals win over the Ukraine and scored both
goals in Italy's 2-0 victory against Scotland in last month's
Euro 2008 qualifier.


Fourth-placed Bayern are also courting German international
Miroslav Klose, from their Bundesliga rivals Werder Bremen, and
last week met with the 67-times capped striker, who has scored 33
goals for his country.


After Bayern Munich were beaten 2-1 at home to Hamburg on
Saturday, manager Uli Hoeness refused to confirm or deny the
story.


"We will be in a position to finalise our squad in the next three
or four weeks, but I will not comment on names at present," he
said.


Bayern coach Ottmar Hitzfeld did not want to confirm the signing
and only said, "we do not comment on speculation and will only
comment if a deal is done."


With Fiorentina still involved in the battle for a place in
Europe next season, Toni's agent, Tullio Tinti, was keen to play
down the report.


"The news of an agreement between Toni and Bayern is without any
substance," he told Italian news agency ANSA in Rome.


"No decision will be taken before the end of the season, when
representatives from both clubs can meet."

