

A French woman released by Afghanistan's Taliban Saturday made a
tearful appeal for the rebels to free a Frenchman and three
Afghan hostages, saying her freedom was nothing without theirs.


The aid worker, whose name was given only as Celine, spoke to
international media at an emotional press conference at the
French embassy in Kabul hours after being set free in the
southern province of Kandahar.


Celine read part of a letter the Taliban gave her on her release,
which said French troops must leave Afghanistan.


"Now we want from the French to leave our country, it is our
right," she read.


Shaking and weeping, Celine then begged the rebels to free
Frenchman Eric and three Afghans who were also abducted in the
southwestern province of Nimroz on April 3.


All five work for French non-governmental organisation, Terre
d'Enfance (A World For Our Children).


"Eric came, like me, to Afghanistan as a friend. Hashim, Rasoul
and Azrat are Afghans. They are Muslims, they are their brothers.
They have children who are waiting for them," she said.


"I have told them before leaving that my freedom is nothing
without theirs."


The aid worker also thanked "those who have helped me in France
and in Afghanistan."


"I would like to thank the Taliban, who kept their promise and
returned me to my parents.


"I would like to tell them that I will never forget that they
gave me (something) to eat and to drink and they treated me with
respect.


"I would like to ask them to have pity in the name of their God
on Eric, Hashim, Rasoul and Azrat," she said.


French ambassador Regis Koetchet told reporters it was not
certain when Celine would leave the country.


The matter was being handled with "determination but also
discretion" considering there were still four people in Taliban
hands, he said.

