

Aston Villa banished one undesired statistic and avoided another
on Saturday with a 2-0 away win at Manchester City.


Before this mid-table match-up Martin O'Neill's side were the
only team among Premiership's top 14 not to be in double figures
for games won.


But thanks to a first half goal from Norwegian striker John Carew
and Scottish forward Shaun Maloney's 75th minute clincher Villa
banished that unenvious statistic and now boast 10 wins from 36
games - though they were helped by City's England midfielder Joey
Barton missing a penalty.


With two games to go it will at best move the Midlanders into
contention for a top ten finish.


The more attentive fans will be aware however that it allowed
Villa, who have become the Premiership's draw kings this season
with 16 so far, to avoid notching up what could have been their
1000th draw in League football.


Villa broke the deadlock in the 24th minute when ex-Lyon striker
Carew got his head to an Ashley Young cross from the left wing to
beat City's Andreas Isaksson.


A foul by City defender Sylvain Distin on Maloney allowed the
former Celtic front man a free kick opportunity, and he
capitalised by sending his effort low to beat Isaksson from 25
yards inflicting the hosts 16th defeat of the season.


City manager Stuart Peace has been under-fire throughout this
season but the former England defender had managed to appease his
detractors by leading his side to only one defeat in their last
seven Premiership outings.


At home, however, City are struggling. This was their eighth home
game without a win at Eastlands.

