

Spain's Telefonica SA is prepared to pay some 2.4 billion euros
(3.275 billion dollars) to obtain a 40 percent stake in a new
Telecom Italia holding company, the economic daily Expansion said
Saturday.


"The agreement is almost complete and could be announced within
hours," the paper said, quoting sources close to the operation,
which would take over the current holding company Olimpia and
boost its share of Telecom Italia from 18 percent to nearly 23.5
percent, the report said.


Apart from Telefonica, the only partner from the
telecommunications industry, the holding would include Italian
banks Generali and Mediobanca, with 35 percent between them,
Intesa Sanpaolo with 10 percent, and the Benetton family with 15
percent.


Benetton currently holds 20 percent of Olimpia, with the
remainder in the hands of tyre giant Pirelli, which is seeking to
sell its share.


US company AT&T said last week it had withdrawn an offer for
a third of Olimpia.


In particular AT&T has been concerned about government plans
to make Italy's fixed line network open to allcomers, which would
mean it losing a key asset.


Expansion said Telefonica would be entitled to two of the 19
seats on Telecom Italia's board, while another economic daily,
Cinco Dias, said Telefonica's indirect stake in the company would
be some 9.5 percent, worth around 4.1 billion euros at current
share prices.


No one was available for comment on the reports at Telefonica
Saturday.

