

Guillermo Canas took another step down the road to rehabilitation
following a drugs ban by defeating Agustin Calleri 7-6 (7/1), 6-7
(5/7), 6-2 Saturday to reach the final of the Barcelona Open.


The 12th seeded Argentine will on Sunday face the winner of an
all-Spanish battle between top seed Rafael Nadal and David
Ferrer.


Canas has been ramping up his game since he returned to the
courts in September after serving a ban for a positive test for a
diuretic.


He won a clay title in February in Brazil and reached the final
of the Miami Masters.


Last month, the 29-year-old stunned Roger Federer twice on North
American hardcourt.


Nadal brings a 70-match clay win streak to the semi-final against
an opponent whom he's beaten on three of four occasions.


The double Roland Garros winner from Mallorca is hoping to
collect a Barcelona trophy hat-trick after winning the last two
editions at the Real club.


Canas had a battle with his burly compatriot Calleri, who won the
first two of their four career matches in 2001 and 2002.


Canas went up a break in the opening set but lost it in the ninth
game. But as the set went into a tiebreak, the 12th seed
dominated with a 7-1 sweep in


the decider.


Canas struggled with nerves as he tried to close out a straight-
sets victory a set later while serving for victory leading 5-4.


He saved a match point in the next game but then contributed to
his own misfortune, double-faulting on his second match-winning
opportunity.


The inevitable tiebreak went to Calleri after more than two hours
on court.


Canas re-grouped in the third, racing to a 3-0 lead before
Calleri could react. Canas dropped serve but got it back for a
4-2 margin on the way to victory in a shade under three hours.

