

Eritrea accused neighbour Ethiopia of a "smear campaign" on
Saturday, warning that Addis Ababa was stoking already-high
tensions between the two Horn of Africa foes.


Dismissing Ethiopian claims of Eritrean "terrorist activities" as
a ploy to deflect attention from its internal conflicts and
fighting in Somalia, the Eritrean foreign ministry accused its
neighbour of "gross war crimes" in Mogadishu.


"Lies and deceit have become daily staples of the TPLF
(Ethiopian) regime," the ministry said in a statement published
in the state-run Eritrea Profile newspaper.


"This precarious situation is becoming increasingly perilous with
time," it added, also blaming the United States for backing
Ethiopia.


The statement is the latest in a string of accusations and
counter-accusations between the arch-foes.


Eritrea again dismissed accusations by Addis Ababa it backs anti-
Ethiopian rebels, including Islamist forces in Somalia.


Ethiopian forces helped Somalia's government oust an Islamic
movement from the capital and other areas of the country at the
start of the year and remain in the country battling Islamist
fighters and clan militia.


Eritrea also denied involvement in last month's abduction of
Western tourists and their guides in Ethiopia's Afar desert, or
this week's bloody attack on a Chinese oil facility in Ethiopia
eastern Ogaden region.


"The TPLF (Ethiopian) regime and its collaborators in the US
State Department have been conducting a smear campaign against
Eritrea, falsely accusing it of involvement in the war of
invasion they have unleashed in Mogadishu," the statement said.


Ethiopia and Eritrea fought a bitter territorial war between 1998
and 2000 and are still at odds over their unresolved border
dispute.

