

A rain of missiles could degrade Iran's nuclear programme and set
it back years, Israel's prime minister told a German weekly,
sparking a warning from Tehran that such a strike would be a
dangerous "error".


"It may not be possible to destroy all of the Iranian nuclear
programme, but it is possible to damage to in such a way it would
be set back several years," Ehud Olmert told the magazine Focus
in an interview to be published Monday.


"It's technically feasible. It would require 10 days and the
launch of a thousand Tomahawk missiles," he said, according to
excerpts made available Saturday.


Olmert said "nobody could exclude" military action against Iran
if the Islamic republic continued to defy UN resolutions calling
for a halt to sensitive atomic work feared to be a step towards
building a nuclear arsenal.


Iranian authorities immediately described Olmert's comments as
empty "bravado," according to the state-run news agency Isna.


The head of its parliamentary foreign affairs commission, Alladin
Borojerdy, said: "If the United States and Israel commit such a
mistake, they know better than anybody what the consequences will
be for themselves."


He added that the head of the UN nuclear watchdog "Mohammed
ElBaraedi has stated that Iran's nuclear science cannot be
destroyed by missile strikes ... because the science is
national."


Many of Iran's nuclear facilities are believed to be deep
underground, in reinforced bunkers difficult to destroy with
conventional weapons.


Israel has repeatedly said in recent weeks that it wants to see
the crisis over Iran's programme resolved through diplomatic
means.


Unsubstantiated reports have suggested that it and the United
States have prepared plans for military strikes.

