

Biarritz leapfrogged Perpignan into fourth place of the French
championship, the league's final play-off spot, with a hard-
fought 23-15 win on Saturday.


Biarritz scored all their 23 points in the second-half, thanks to
a try each from Fijian winger Sireli Bobo and flanker Thomas
Lievremont and 13 points from the boot of Dimitri Yachvili,
including a 63rd-minute drop-goal.


Perpignan led 6-0 at half-time at their Aime-Giral stadium
through the first two of fly-half Nicolas Laharrague's five
penalties.


But the hosts lost the wind advantage in the second half and with
that any real attacking threat.


Biarritz coach Patrice Lagisquet was happy with his side's
performance against the Calatan club.


"We played within our limits in the first half," the former
France flyer said. "But that changed and we showed both in
defence and in refinding our spark and linking game that we're
not a team that's going badly."


Perpignan lock Olivier Olibeau lamented his side's fading away in
the second period.


"The problem was that we played the whole match back to front,"
he said.


"In the first half we should have been more enterprising while we
were happy to play a kicking game. And in the second half we left
ourselves badly exposed."


Biarritz still have it all to play for, however, to make sure of
their place in the last four, with a crucial game against Top 14
leaders Stade Francais next weekend.


In Friday's game, mercurial France outside-half Frederic
Michalak, playing in his first full game for six months, helped
Toulouse to a 41-10 rout of Narbonne.


Toulouse were out to cement their place in the league's top four
and they achieved their goal in style with Michalak playing a
major role in setting up Cedric Heymans for the first of his four
tries.


Jean-Baptiste Elissalde contributed 19 points to Toulouse's tally
with the help of his reliable boot.


Toulouse moved up a place to second behind Stade Francais who
take on Montauban later on Saturday.

