

A decision by the Spanish body in the Roman Catholic Church to
beatify 498 religious "martyrs" from the civil war was a slap in
the face to the government over the conflict, the press here said
Saturday.


The centre-left daily El Pais said the church was "launching a
counter-attack against the law of historical memory" planned by
the socialist government to rehabilitate the republican victims
of the war.


Catalan daily La Vanguardia said the beatification plan marked "a
new bout of arm wrestling" between the church and an
administration whose social reforms, notably on gay marriage,
have upset many Catholics.


According to historians, several thousand priests, monks and nuns
were killed by republicans before and during the 1936-1939 civil
war, which was won by late dictator Francisco Franco's
nationalist side.


Since 1987, about 500 have been beatified -- the last step before
possible sainthood -- by the pope. On Friday, the church's
episcopal conference announced a mass beatification of a further
498.


The Spanish press reported that the ceremony would take place in
Rome in October, an exception to the rules introduced by Pope
Benedict XVI which say such events should take place in the
victims' locality.


The Socialist government of Jose Louis Rodriguez Zapatero said it
respected the decisions taken by the episcopal conference, and
the church denied it was seeking a confrontation with the
government.

