

Polish EU lawmaker Bronislaw Geremek said on Saturday he was
prepared to lose his seat in the European Parliament in protest
of a new law designed to identify communist-era secret police
informers.


"I am ready to pay that price," Geremek told journalists. "But I
will not resign on my own because I would be validating a law
that is bad by doing that."


The former anti-communist activist has refused to comply with the
Polish law requiring him to file a declaration on whether he
collaborated with secret police during the communist era.


He called on Polish authorities not to take any action against
him until the country's constitutional court had had a chance to
rule on the law. Hearings have been scheduled for May 9 to 11.


The new measures drastically extend an existing law, which
previously affected only lawmakers, government ministers and
judges, or around 30,000 of Poland's 38 million people.


It was broadened last month to include academics, journalists,
managers of state-owned firms, school principals, diplomats and
lawyers, and now affects up to 700,000 Poles.


They are required to file declarations or risk losing their jobs.


Geremek, 75, is a history professor, founder-member of the
Solidarity trade union in the 1980s and former foreign minister.


He has said the law trumpeted by President Lech Kaczynski and his
twin brother, Prime Minister Jaroslaw Kaczynski, was "creating an
Orwellian-style ministry of truth" in Poland.


The European Parliament has rallied behind Geremek, with the
body's president Hans-Gert Poettering pledging to "examine all
legal possibilities" to allow him to continue his work.


French public officials, including Foreign Minister Philippe
Douste-Blazy, have also condemned the pressure being placed on
Geremek.


Former Polish president and Nobel Peace Prize winner Lech Walesa
has said Poland's governing Kaczynski twins have "betrayed" the
ideals of the anti- communist Solidarity union and are
endangering democracy.

