

The Turkish government on Saturday lashed out at the army, which
accused it of endangering secularism, saying the general staff
"remains under the orders of the prime minister."


"I would like to underline that it is inconceivable in a
democratic state based on the rule of law for the general staff,
which remains under the orders of the prime minister, to speak
out against the government," government spokesman Cemil Cicek
told a news conference.


He stressed the government's commitment to the secular order of
the country and said it was "unacceptable" for Turkey to resolve
its problems outside the democratic system.


He added that Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan and army chief
General Yasar Buyukanit had a "useful and productive" telephone
conversation Saturday afternoon.


In an unusually strong statement late Friday, the general staff
voiced concern over a perceived growing Islamist threat to Turkey
and said it is ready to act to defend the secular regime.


The statement came hours after parliament held an inconclusive
first-round vote to elect a new president, with Foreign Minister
Abdullah Gul, nominated by Erdogan's Islamist-rooted Justice and
Development Party (AKP), the sole candidate.


"The primary duty in protecting the basic tenets of the state
falls on the government," Cicek said. "The government is more
sensitive than anyone to Turkey as a secular democratic social
state based on the rule of law."


The main opposition Republican People's Party (CHP), which is
strongly opposed to a former Islamist being elected president,
has asked the Constitutional Court to cancel the parliamentary
vote.


Cicek said the army's warning would be perceived as an "attempt
to influence the supreme judiciary at a very sensitive time."


"Every responsible person should avoid acts that harm Turkey's
prestige in the international community, threaten the stability
of its economy and contradict democracy," Cicek said.

