

Arsenal chairman Peter Hill-Wood has told the club's shareholders
that he intends to meet Stan Kroenke to "hear what he has to say"
amid reports the American billionaire is planning a hostile
takeover bid.


Kroenke has increased his stake in the Gunners to 12.19 percent
and is understood to be the main reason behind the exit of former
vice-chairman David Dein.


Hill-Wood, who recently said of Kroenke "we do not want his
sort", now admits he has "spoken to him recently to arrange a
meeting so that I can hear what he has to say."


The move represents a change of heart for Hill-Wood who has
accused the owner of Major League Soccer club Colorado Rapids of
knowing "nothing about our football".


The letter to the shareholders said: "Our managing director,
Keith Edelman, has already had one meeting with Mr Kroenke since
his investment.


"His recent acquisition of shares has caused a great deal of
media speculation and the board felt that the time is right to
reassure you about the future of our club."


Hill-Wood's letter expresses his doubt about a new owner buying
the club in order to profit from it but reassures supporters that
manager Arsene Wenger remains part of the club's long-term
future.


"Our approach, which is very much in line with Arsene Wenger's,
is that the funds generated from ticket sales, broadcasting
revenue and the like should be made available for investment in
players and that this is the most sustainable way to ensure the
club's long-term growth and future."


Kroenke Sports Enterprises held a 11.26 percent stake, mainly as
a result of buying 9.9 percent of the club from ITV.


But he raised his stake days after "irreconcilable differences"
between Dein and the Arsenal board prompted D ein to leave the
club.


If Kroenke raises his Arsenal stake to 30 percent he is obliged
by takeover rules to launch a formal bid for the Gunners.

