

Russian President Vladimir Putin voiced "serious concern" on
Saturday over unrest in the Estonian capital, in a phone
conversation with German Chancellor Angela Merkel, the Kremlin
said.


Putin "voiced the most serious concern over the dramatic course
of events in Tallinn after Estonian authorities took measures to
remove the monument" to Soviet soldiers from the city centre, the
Kremlin said in a statement.


The statement said that the "crisis situation" in Estonia, as
well as "continuing instability in Ukraine" were the main topics
of discussion between Merkel and Putin.


The two also discussed preparations for an EU-Russia summit in
the Russian city of Samara next month, which Merkel will be
attending as leader of the German presidency of the European
Union, the statement said.


As regards Estonia, Merkel "voiced her support for the quickest
possible resolution of the situation and the need for moderation
by all sides," the statement continued.


Nearly 100 people were injured and more than 600 detained in a
second night of rioting in the Estonian capital Tallinn after the
removal of a Soviet war memorial, officials said.


The Russian foreign ministry said Saturday that a Russian citizen
had been killed in the unrest in Tallinn, which is the worst
since Estonia regained independence from the Soviet Union in
1991.


The memorial at the centre of the unrest is seen by Estonians as
a symbol of nearly 50 years of Soviet occupation, while Russia
considers it a sacred memorial to Red Army soldiers who defeated
Nazism in World War II.

