

The United States could unilaterally recognise Kosovo's
independence even if Russia vetoes such a move at the United
Nations, a former US envoy to the Balkans and the UN said
Saturday.


"If Russia decides to use its veto (in the UN Security Council),
there will be a declaration of independence in Kosovo, and the
United States will recognise Kosovo the same day," Richard
Holbrook predicted during a conference in Brussels.


He added that he believed several EU states would follow suit.


The UN Security Council is due to decide in coming weeks on the
status of Kosovo.


The territory, a southern province of Serbia, has been under UN
administration since mid-1999, following NATO bombardments that
forced the Serbian military to cease a crackdown on the ethnic
Albanian majority and to withdraw.


Holbrook represented the United States at the 1995 Dayton peace
accords that ended the Bosnian war and then went on to become a
US presidential envoy to Kosovo before being named US ambassador
to the United Nations from 1999 to 2001. He is now a member of
international foreign policy think tanks.


"Russia will bear responsibility if violence is breaking" after a
possible decision to veto a UN declaration of Kosovo
independence.


Russia has sided with Serbia, a traditional ally, in opposing a
recommendation by the UN envoy to Kosovo, Martti Ahtisaari, that
"supervised independence" be granted.


Sweden's foreign minister, Carl Bildt, also in Brussels, attacked
Holbrook over his comments, saying "that is playing with fire in
Europe, playing with fire with the transatlantic relationship and
playing with fire in the Balkans."


He said the matter had to be decided by a UN Security Council
resolution.

