

Around 3,000 supporters of Arab Israeli former MP Azmi Bishara,
accused of spying for Hezbollah during last year's Lebanon war,
rallied in northern Israel on Saturday.


The demonstration in Nazareth, Israel's largest Arab town, was
organised by the National Democratic Assembly, better known by
its Hebrew acronym Balad, which Bishara heads.


"Our existence, our resistance and our will will be stronger than
the conspiracy" against Bishara, read one banner carried by
demonstrators. Another slammed "the conspiracy of the Israeli
intelligence services."


Israeli police on Wednesday said Bishara was suspected of passing
on information to Hezbollah during what Israel calls the Second
Lebanon War and receiving money in exchange.


The allegations amount to assisting an enemy during wartime,
handing over information to the enemy, being in contact with a
foreign agent and violating money laundering laws.


If found guilty in an Israeli court, Bishara, a Christian, could
face life in prison.


Bishara himself is in Qatar having announced his resignation from
the Israeli parliament after 11 years while in Cairo last week
and giving up his parliamentary immunity.


In a statement handed out by his party on Thursday, the former MP
said he intended to remain in public life despite his voluntary
resignation.


Bishara pledged to return to Israel, denied the allegations
against him and insisted that foreign exile is not an option.


A distinguished debater with a doctorate in philosophy, Bishara
has campaigned relentlessly for the rights of the 1.2 million-
strong Arab minority who account for 20 percent of Israel's
population.

