

Turkey's presidential election must be fully democratic and
untainted by outside interference, the EU said Saturday amid
fears the army could step in to defend the country's secular
system.


"The presidency of the European Union is following closely the
situation in Turkey ahead of the first round of the presidential
election," the German EU presidency said in a statement issued in
Berlin.


The EU "expects that all political leaders involved in this
presidential election will behave in accordance with the
democratic laws of state set down by the constitution," the
statement said.


In particular, the EU urges "that the election and the
Constitutional Court are not influenced by external pressures,"
it said.


The Turkish army, responsible for three past coups, warned late
Friday that it was determined to defend the country's secular
system, weighing in on a presidential vote that has sharply
divided secularists and the Islamist-rooted government.


The parliament held Friday an inconclusive first round of voting
to elect a new president with Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul of
the ruling Justice and Development Party (AKP) the sole
candidate.


The AKP's nomination of Gul has fanned unease in an increasingly
polarised society where many fear the secular order is under
threat from a growing Islamist influence.


Many are unconvinced by the AKP's arguments that it has disavowed
its Islamist past and fear the government will have a free hand
to implement a suspected agenda that will erode the separation of
state and religion if Gul is elected.


The main opposition Republican People's Party, which strongly
opposes the idea of a former Islamist becoming president, on
Friday evening petitioned the Constitutional Court to cancel the
first round of voting, citing violation of a quorum rule.


If the court annuls the vote, general elections -- originally
scheduled for November 4 -- must be called within 90 days.

