

Iraq's firebrand Shiite cleric Moqtada al-Sadr on Saturday lashed
out at US President George W. Bush for refusing to set a
timetable for the withdrawal of American troops.


Sadr, known for his anti-American stand, has not been seen in the
public for several months but continues to issue statements
through a powerful movement that included 32 lawmakers and the
Mahdi Army militia.


"Your occupation is unjustified and a sort of dictatorship that
takes a person nowhere," Sadr said in a statement issued under
his seal and read to Iraq's parliament by lawmaker Liqa al-
Yassin.


Demanding the withdrawal of US troops from Iraq, the cleric said
it was only Bush's "stubborness" that was keeping American forces
in Iraq more than four years after the fall of Saddam Hussein.


"What chaos would befall us if you withdrew the armies of the
dark forces from our lands?" the cleric's statement demanded.
"What more chaos could we be in than we are already in?


"You have replaced the dictatorship of Saddam with that of
takfiris (Sunni extremists)," he said, lashing out at calls from
the US government for former members of Saddam's ruling Baath
party to be allowed to return to public life.


The Iraqi government has been asked by US policy-makers to reform
its controversial de-Baathification in order to soothe sectarian
tensions and allow former government and military employees of
Saddam's regime to return to work.


Sadr also protested against the controversial wall that is being
built by US and Iraqi troops around a Sunni enclave in Baghdad to
thwart sectarian attacks.


"How can you be seeking to avoid sectarianism, while you are
inciting it through building a wall?" he said. "You, Bush, you
have planted violence and hatred. Are you capable of ending it? I
say not at all."


The US military has accused the cleric's Mahdi Army milita of
carrying out attacks on US and Iraqi forces and of sectarian
violence.

