

Sheffield United gave their hopes of Premiership survival a huge
boost with a 1-0 win over already-relegated Watford on Saturday.


Michael Tonge's 44th-minute shot, which was deflected into the
net by the shoulder of Watford's former England fullback Chris
Powell, was enough to give Neil Warnock's side the three points
and that is exactly the margin between them and the relegation
zone.


Blades boss Neil Warnock had drafted Christian Nade into his
forward line at the expense of Luton Shelton in the only change
from the side that had secured a valuable draw against fellow
strugglers Charlton last weekend.


Already-relegated Watford gave Lee Williamson a rare start in
midfield after Damien Francis was ruled out with a knee injury.


Aidy Boothroyd's side, who were doomed to the drop following
their draw with Manchester City last weekend, appeared determined
to go down fighting, with skipper Gavin Mahon yellow carded after
only five minutes for a dangerously high late tackle on Matthew
Kilgallon.


Despite the high stakes involved, United were oddly subdued at
the outset, offering little threat before Nade latched on to a
Chris Armstrong punt and went round Ben Foster only to fluff his
finish from a tight angle, allowing the on- loan Manchester
United keeper to regain his ground and save.


That only contributed to the tension in the ground, which was
finally lifted just over a minute from the break.


Cutting in from the left, Tonge fired in a right-foot shot that
deflected off Powell's shoulder and left Foster helpless.


Watford had a good chance of an equaliser shortly after the
break, when Marlon King fired over, and the striker was
desperately unlucky in the 65th minute, when be barged past Chris
Morgan and chipped Paddy Kenny only to see his effort bounce back
off the bar.


After that let-off, United were able to hold on fairly
comfortably for three precious points.

