

Turkey faced a political crisis Saturday as the Islamist-rooted
government clashed with the army over the latter's threat of
action to defend the country's secular regime.


The row erupted after parliament began voting on Friday on a new
president in a process where the sole candidate is a former
Islamist fielded by the Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan's
Justice and Development Party (AKP).


The prospect of the candidate, Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul,
becoming head of state alarmed secularists about Islam creeping
into all fields of life and prompted the opposition to boycott
the vote, robbing the government of the required two-thirds
majority.


The staunchly secularist Turkish army then issued a harsh warning
against questioning the country's secular system and said it
would "openly display its position and attitudes when it becomes
necessary."


The government sharply called the army to order Saturday and the
European Union urged it not to interfere in the candidate
country's democratic process while opposition parties called for
early elections to resolve the crisis.


"I would like to underline that it is inconceivable in a
democratic state based on the rule of law for the general staff,
which remains under the orders of the prime minister, to speak
out against the government," government spokesman and Justice
Minister Cemil Cicek told a news conference.


"The primary duty in protecting the basic tenets of the state
falls on the government," he said.


Secularists remain unconvinced by AKP arguments that it has
disawoved its Islamist past and fear the government will have a
free hand to implement an Islamist agenda if the party controls
the presidency.


They cite its unsuccessful attempts to criminalise adultery,
restrict alcohol sales and lift a ban on Islamic headscarves in
government offices and universities as evidence that the party
has not changed.


Dozens of non-governmental organizations have called for a rally
in Istanbul Sunday to show their support for the secular system,
similar to one in Ankara two weeks ago that attracted up to 1.5
million people, acording to some estimates.


The main opposition Republican People's Party has asked the
Constitutional Court to cancel the vote, arguing that parliament
did not have necessary quorum.


If the court annuls the vote, general elections, set for November
4, could be brought forward. If not, Gul could be president in a
third round vote on May 9, when he needs just an absolute
majority.


"It should not be forgotten that the Turkish armed forces are a
party to this debate and staunch defenders of secularism," the
general staff's statement said.


"The Turkish armed forces ... will openly and clearly display
their position and attitude when necessary. No one should doubt
this."


The Turkish army, which sees itself as the guardian of the
secular system, seized power in 1960, 1971 and 1980 and forced
the resignation in 1997 of the country's first Islamist prime
minister, Necmettin Erbakan.


In his first reaction to the army statement, Erdogan said that
the nation would oppose actions that would hurt political
stability.


"This nation has paid a heavy, painful price when the base of
stability and confidence has been lost. But it no longer allows,
nor will it allow, opportunists who are waiting and paving the
way for a disaster," he said.


In Brussels, EU enlargement commissioner Olli Rehn called on the
army to stay away from politics, saying it was a test case of
whether the army "respect democratic secularism and the
democratic arrangement of civil-military relations."


The leaders of the two minor opposition parties -- the Motherland
Party and the True Path Party -- called on the government to
cancel the presidential elections and call early general
elections.


"The only way out of this crisis is general elections,"
Motherland chairman Erkan Mumcu told a press conference here.

