

A former trainer working with retired German cyclist Jan Ullrich
has claimed that the 1997 Tour de France winner was injected with
EPO (erythropoietin) during the 1996 edition of the race.


Jeff d' Hont, a Belgian masseur used by the Telekom team from
1992 till 1996, claimed in the German weekly newspaper Der
Spiegel that Ullrich took the banned blood booster in 1996.


He also claims the German team's medical supervisors, who work
for the team under their current name T-Mobile, encouraged him.


D'Hont also accused two doctors, Lothar Heinrich and Andreas
Schmid, of having administered injections of EPO in 1996, the
year in which Ullrich's Danish team- mate Bjarne Riis won the
race's yellow jersey.


The accusations are particularly serious as Lothar Heinrich is
the T-Mobile doctor and the German team dismissed Ullrich in July
2006 for his implication in the Operacion Puerto doping scandal,
which is still being investigated.


T-Mobile was restructured at the end of last season after the
height of the scandal, and began this season promising to
spearhead the fight against doping in the sport. The team gave
the job of monitoring and dope testing its riders to the
specialists of the University of Fribourg, under Heinrich's
supervision.


"If these accusations against the doctors at the University of
Fribourg are confirmed, we are going to search for alternatives,"
promised Bob Stapleton, the new general manager of T-Mobile.


D'Hont, who had a book published in Germany this week on his
experience at the heart of cycling, accused Riis, the current
manager of CSC, of winning the 1996 Tour while using EPO.

