

A double from Blackburn Rovers striker Jason Roberts inspired his
side to a 4-1 humbling of 10-man Charlton Athletic and inflicted
a hammer blow on the visitors' chances of retaining their place
in the Premiership.


Charlton weren't helped by volatile defender Ben Thatcher being
sent off for a second yellow card in the 63rd minute after going
1-0 down to Roberts' first.


Despite getting back on level terms Charlton then conceded three
more goals - an own goal by Hermann Hreidarsson, Roberts again
and then Matt Derbyshire.


Defeat and West Ham's win over Wigan Athletic sent Charlton down
to second from bottom, three points off safety.


Charlton's hopes of taking anything from the match looked to have
all but evaporated on the hour mark.


Roberts nipped in to shoot past Scott Carson after good work by
giant defender Christopher Samba.


Things got worse for the London side when former Wales
international defender Thatcher picked up his second booking of
the match after a desperate tackle on David Bentley gave referee
Mike Dean no option but to send him for an early shower.


However Rovers allowed Charlton back into the match in the 71st
minute when a dreadful backheader by former Liverpool defender
Stephen Warnock went over Brad Friedel, hit the underside of the
bar and presented Darren Bent the easiest of headers for his 14th
goal of the season and 12th in the Premiership.


Charlton, though, could not save themselves as Hreidarrsson was
unfortunate to see the ball hit his calf and beat Carson at his
near post making it even likelier that the Icelandic
international will experience relegation from the Premiership
with a fourth different club.


Any chance of a revival by the visitors was erased when Roberts
added his second - from a pass by Morten Gamst Pedersen - and
then salt was rubbed in to the wound as Derbyshire, who had only
just come on as a substitute, easily evaded the offside trap and
his cross shot curled round Carson into the far corner.

