

A recently revived Basque political party will be allowed to
operate after Spanish authorities could find no links to the ETA
armed separatist group nor to ETA's banned political wing, a top
judge said Saturday.


The Eusko Abertzale Akintza-Action Nationalist Basque party (EAE-
ANV) can legally operate and will not be subject to the ban
applying to the Batasuna party, judge Baltasar Garzon ruled.


He based his judgment on a police report that said, "We cannot
determine that ANV is an instrument of ETA-Batasuna, even though
it has some affinities in terms of its goals."


The EAE-ANV was one of the founding elements of Batasuna in 1978,
but had been inoperative until recently. Its sudden revival to
put up candidates for May 27 municipal and regional elections
aroused suspicions that ETA's political wing was trying to sneak
into the polls.


Batasuna has been prohibited as a party since 2003 because of its
ties to ETA, which has been blamed for over 800 deaths in its
four-decade campaign to achieve independence for the Basque
region in northern Spain and southern France.


In March, Batasuna presented a new party, Abertzale Sozialisten
Batasuna, to contest the May elections, but it too is expected to
be banned, as are supposedly apolitical "citizen's lists"
inspired by Batasuna.


A candidate on one of the lists, Gorka Murillo, was ordered
detained by Garzon Saturday for suspected membership of ETA,
following his arrest in the northern province of Navarra.


Documents were allegedly found at his home included photographs
of Spanish military vehicles, suggesting possible targets for a
new armed ETA unit said to have been smashed by police at the end
of last March.

