

Bolivian President Evo Morales said Saturday he was "sure"
convalescing Cuban leader Fidel Castro would return to power
during May Day celebrations on Tuesday.


It is the third time that Morales, a leftist ally of Castro, has
announced an imminent return of the communist leader since he
handed power to his brother Raul last year while recovering from
intestinal surgery.


"I am sure, my Cuban brothers, that on May 1 comrade Fidel will
return to and resume governing Cuba and Latin America," he told a
group of Cuban doctors during a land title distribution event in
the Filadelfia region in northern Bolivia.


"I am almost convinced that comrade Fidel will return to continue
governing, leading the Cuban people, these revolutionary people,"
Morales said.


Asked by reporters whether he had directly heard from Castro,
Morales said: "No, but I have information that a big mobilization
is being prepared in Cuba" for May Day celebrations.


Morales, an admirer of Castro who calls the 80-year-old leader
the "wise grandfather," had announced in October that Castro
would return to power in "two or three weeks."


In March, he had said Castro would attend this month in Havana
the third anniversary of the Bolivarian Alternative for the
Americas, a political and trade cooperation agreement launched by
Castro and his closest ally, Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez.


But Castro's attendance at the event is very unlikely as the
event is taking place in Caracas instead Saturday and Sunday.
Morales was headed to Caracas later Saturday to join Chavez,
Nicaraguan President Daniel Ortega and Cuban Vice President
Carlos Lage.


Cuban officials and Chavez have given updates on Fidel Castro's
health in recent months, hinting he is set for a comeback after
handing power to Raul in July. It is the first time he has given
up the reins of government since the 1959 Cuban revolution.

