

Millions braved a searing heatwave Saturday to vote in the fifth
leg of polls in northern Uttar Pradesh, India's most populous
state.


Election officials said 46 percent of more than six million
voters turned out for the polls, which come half way through the
national government's five-year term.


"Despite the sheer size of the exercise, there were no reports of
untoward incidents during the polling," Chief Electoral Officer
A.K.Bishnoi told AFP by telephone from state capital Lucknow.


Some 65,000 paramilitary troops backed the 60,000-strong
provincial constabulary during the eight-hour ballot, seen as a
test of popularity for the ruling Congress party and the main
opposition Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).


Voters also turned out in strength in Rae Barelli and Amethi, the
two traditional home constituencies of India's iconic Nehru-
Gandhi dynasty.


Bishnoi and other state government officials blamed the
comparatively low turnout on the heatwave smothering most of
northern India.


Exit polls from the earlier rounds show Mayawati Kumari, a woman
from India's lowest Dalit caste who leads the Bahujan Samaj
Party, edging ahead of incumbent chief minister Mulayam Singh
Yadav.


Saturday's vote was seen as crucial for Yadav, whose regional
Samajwadi party picked up more than half the seats in this area
in state elections in 2002. He is up for re-election in the
current round.


The Congress party headed by Sonia Gandhi was likely to better
its record of 25 seats in the 403-member state assembly, polls
said.


They showed the BJP, upset by Congress in national elections in
2004, was likely to do well in the state polls, which began April
7 and end on May 8.


Earlier this year, the BJP won polls in the northern states of
Uttarakhand and Punjab. Votes will be counted May 11.

