

Herewith some of the worst of the daily attacks on civilians in
Iraq:


2007


- April 28: A suicide car-bomb attack near the Imam Abbas shrine
in the Shiite city of Karbala kills at least 55 people and wounds
nearly 160 others, many of them women and children.


- April 14: Forty-two people are killed in a suicide car bombing
near the Imam Hussein shrine in Karbala.


- March 6: 118 Shiite pilgrims are slaughtered across the
country, including at least 90 who died when two suicide
attackers set off their bombs in a crowd in the central town of
Hilla.


- March 5: At least 26 people are killed when a car bomb hits
Baghdad's oldest book market.


- Feb 25: A suicide bomber kills at least 40 people, many of them
women students, at a Baghdad university that was also attacked in
January.


- Feb 24: At least 35 people die in a bomb attack on a Sunni
mosque in western Iraq.


- Feb 12: Attacks on two Baghdad markets kill at least 79.


- Feb 3: A suicide truck bomb attack in Baghdad's Sadriya market
kills 130 people and wounds 305.


- Feb 1: A twin suicide attack on a Hilla market kills 73 people.


- Jan 22: Two car bombs leave at least 88 people dead in Baghdad.


- Jan 16: Bombs outside a Baghdad university kill at least 70
people, mostly students.


2006


- Dec 12: At least 70 people die when suicide bombers blow up
vehicles among a crowd of casual labourers in Baghdad.


- Nov 23: At least 202 people die in a string of car bombings in
the Shiite neighbourhood of Sadr City, Baghdad.


- Aug 13: A series of car bombings in southeastern Baghdad leaves
73 dead.


- April 7: Ninety people are killed when three suicide bombers
blow themselves up as worshippers leave a Baghdad Shiite mosque.


- Feb 22: Insurgents bomb a revered Shiite shrine in the town of
Samarra, triggering a wave of communal bloodshed that leaves
hundreds dead.


- Jan 5: A suicide bomber kills 67 at a police recruitment centre
in Ramadi, west of Baghdad while a suicide attack in the Shiite
shrine city of Karbala kills 44.


2005


- Nov 18: Suicide attacks against two Shiite mosques in Khanaqin,
northeast of Baghdad, kill 78.


- Sept 29: A triple car bombing leaves 99 dead in Balad, a mainly
Shiite town north of Baghdad.


- Sept 14: At least 128 people are killed as a suicide bomber
targets day labourers in the Baghdad Shiite district of
Kadhimiyah.


- July 16: A suicide bomber blows up a propane gas tanker near a
Shiite mosque in Al-Musayyib, south of the capital, killing 83
people.


- May 11: Bombers strike in three Iraqi cities, killing 84.


- March 10: Fifty-one Iraqis are killed in a suicide bombing at a
Shiite funeral in Mosul.


- Feb 28: At least 118 people are killed and scores more wounded
when a suicide bombing hits the overwhelmingly Shiite city of
Hilla.


2004


- Dec 19: Car bombs explode near Shiite shrines in Najaf and
Karbala, killing at least 66 people and wounding more than 200.


- July 28: Seventy people are killed in a suicide car bombing in
Baquba, north of Baghdad.


- June 24: Insurgents unleash a wave of coordinated attacks
across Iraq killing more than 100 people.


- April 21: Bomb attacks targeting police stations around the
southern city of Basra kill at least 74 people, mostly policemen
and schoolchildren.


- March 2: Bomb attacks on Shiites in Karbala and Baghdad kill
more than 180 people.


- Feb 10: At least 55 people are killed in car bombing outside a
police station in Iskandariyah, south of Baghdad.


- Feb 1: At least 105 people are killed when twin suicide bombers
blow themselves up at the headquarters of two Kurdish political
parties in Arbil.


2003


- Aug 29: A car bomb kills 83 people, including leading
politician Ayatollah Mohammed Baqer al-Hakim, outside one of
Shiite Islam's holiest shrines in Najaf.

