

An international conference on Darfur opened in Libya on Saturday
without the presence of rebel groups from the war-ravaged region
in western Sudan, a Libyan official said.


"It is a conference for talks between all of the international
parties concerned with the conflict to express their points of
view," Libya's Deputy Foreign Minister Ali Abdel Salam Triki told
reporters.


"This important conference is being held in the absence of the
Sudanese opposition, for whom another conference will be held
soon in Tripoli," he added in reference to rebel groups in
Darfur.


Triki did not specify when the second meeting would be held but
said its delegates would discuss the results of Saturday's
gathering in Sirte, 500 kilometres (310 miles) east of the Libyan
capital.


US President George W. Bush's special envoy for Darfur, Andrew
Natsios, is in Sirte, as are the British foreign office's
official in charge of Sudan Christopher Prentice and Henri de
Coignac from the French foreign ministry.


The foreign ministers of Chad, Egypt and Sudan -- Ahmat Allami,
Ahmed Abul Gheit and Lam Akol respectively -- are also attending
the conference, as is the African Union special representative
for Sudan, Salim Ahmed Salim.


Libyan leader Moamer Kadhafi opened the meeting.


Earlier this month, Khartoum accepted the second phase of a
United Nations plan to bring stability to Darfur.


It would add 3,000 UN troops -- mostly military and police staff
-- to provide logistical, communications and air support to the
current undermanned African Union (AU) force.


The international community is pressing Sudan to accept a hybrid
peacekeeping force of UN and AU forces to stem violence that has
steadily escalated since the Darfur conflict erupted in 2003.


At least 200,000 people have been killed in Darfur and more than
two million driven from their homes, according to the United
Nations. Khartoum disputes those figures, but some sources say
the death toll is much higher.

