

Herewith is a chronology of the two-month Falklands war in 1982
which left more than 900 dead on both sides and nearly 2,000
wounded.


-- April 2: Argentine forces land on the Falklands. The following
day they occupy the South Georgia and associated islands.


-- April 5: A British squadron deploys from Portsmouth.


-- April 25: British marines retake South Georgia islands, and
190 people are taken prisoner. Argentine naval commander Alfredo
Astiz signs an unconditional surrender without firing a shot.


-- May 2: The British nuclear submarine HMS Conqueror sinks
Argentine cruiser General Belgrano in international waters,
killing 323.


-- May 4: Argentine Super Etenard Mirage fighter planes, equipped
with French- built Exocet missiles, attack and sink the British
destroyer HMS Sheffield, killing 20.


-- May 6: The United Nations calls on Argentina and Britain to
remove their forces from the archipelago as a first step toward
talks. The next day London widens its naval blockade to within 12
miles off the Argentine coastline.


-- May 12: Some 3,000 British troops, including a regiment of
Nepalese Gurkhas, board the Queen Elizabeth cruise ship and head
to the south Atlantic.


-- May 23: Argentine planes seriously damage the British frigate
Antelope


-- May 25: Two Argentine planes destroy the British destroyer
Coventry and the cargoship Atlantic, carrying a dozen
helicopters.


-- May 28: British troops capture Goose Green and Darwin.


-- June 8: British warships Sir Galahad and Sir Tristam are badly
damaged during a landing at Fitzroy. 51 British soldiers are
killed.


-- June 12: British troops launch the final battle and arrive in
Port Stanley, taking 400 prisoners. During 24 hours of fighting,
50 Argentine and 23 British soldiers are killed.


-- June 13: The Battle of Mount Tumbledown, one of the heights
dominating the capital Stanley. 32 Argentines and 9 Britons are
killed.


-- June 14: Argentina surrenders.


-- June 17: Fall of the Argentine dictator Leopoldo Galtieri.

