

Britain is to split up its beleaguered interior ministry into two
separate departments with responsibility for national security
and justice respectively, press reports on Thursday said.


The Home Office confirmed late on Wednesday that interior
minister John Reid has completed various reviews since taking
over the post last May and made a series of recommendations to
Prime Minister Tony Blair.


"The recommendations have been passed to the Prime Minister for
his consideration," a Home Office spokeswoman said.


Several press reports said that the prime minister was expected
to announce the plans later on Thursday, with one ministerial
source not involved in the changes telling The Times: "If you ask
me, it is game set and match to Reid."


Reid has in the past made clear his frustrations with the
department -- which rarely goes a week without making headlines
in Britain -- and declared parts of it "not fit for purpose"
after becoming Home Secretary.


According to reports published in the Financial Times,
Independent, and The Times, a ministry of justice will be created
by merging the parts of the Home Office responsible for prisons,
probation and the criminal justice system with the Department for
Constitutional Affairs.


That department will be led by the Lord Chancellor, Britain's de
facto justice minister, a post currently manned by Lord Charles
Falconer.


The ministry for national security will retain control of the
police, as well as crime-fighting and immigration, and will be
led by Reid.


Reid will also chair a weekly meeting of the security and
intelligence agencies, though the foreign intelligence service
MI6 and the government's listening outpost GCHQ will still report
to the foreign ministry.

