

Detectives probing the murder of Pakistan cricket coach Bob
Woolmer said Wednesday that better-than-anticipated security
video footage could provide vital clues in the hunt for his
killer.


A painstaking operation to transfer hours of footage from well-
worn VHS tape into a digital format has been completed, and early
results were promising, Jamaica deputy police commissioner Mark
Shields said.


"I looked at a few still images myself and I'm satisfied that I
can easily identify people," Shields told journalists.


"There were some people in the footage that I'd met in the week
after the murder of Bob Woolmer that I could clearly and easily
identify."


Woolmer was found strangled in his room at the Pegasus Hotel on
March 18, one day after Pakistan were dramatically dumped out of
the World Cup in a shock defeat to minnows Ireland.


The killing has sparked one of the most complex murder
investigations in Jamaican history and triggered speculation
about possible links to match-fixing and illegal betting in
cricket.


Around 50 officers are now attempting to track down hundreds of
potential witnesses who were either visiting or staying at the
Pegasus Hotel in the days leading up to Woolmer's death.


Shields said analysis of video camera footage had been slow
because of a desire to preserve the integrity of the original
film. Parts of the video footage would also require further
enhancement, he added.


Several reports have suggested that police had given up hope of
gleaning useful information from the security cameras because of
poor quality footage.


Detectives were also awaiting the results of toxicology and
bodily tissue tests which will help to pinpoint Woolmer's time of
death, allowing them to focus their analysis of video footage on
a fixed period of time.


On Tuesday Shields announced an international appeal for
witnesses to come forward in order to eliminate as many people as
possible from the inquiry.


Shields, a former detective of Britain's Scotland Yard police
department who last week said Woolmer probably knew his killer,
said Wednesday police would continue their investigation from
"the inside out."


"My priority is to identify, locate and interview as many
witnesses as we possibly can," he said.


"We are working from the inside out -- it is those that we know
were close to Bob Woolmer, were associates of Bob Woolmer, people
who were on the same floor or close to him from the time he
returned to the hotel until the time he was murdered."


Pakistan's players, who returned home on Wednesday to be greeted
by thousands of angry fans, were tested for DNA and gave
fingerprints before they left Jamaica at the weekend.


Shields said he was confident Woolmer's killer or killers had
left traces of DNA at the crime scene.


"I think it's highly likely," he said. "In a murder investigation
such as this, people do leave traces of DNA at the scene. The
reason we're taking DNA samples from everybody is to exclude
them."


Police were continuing to study evidence from Woolmer's mobile
phone and laptop computer.


Shields said he had not found any evidence of a letter Woolmer is
said to have emailed to the Pakistan Cricket Board confirming his
decision to retire.


"I would like to see the letter," Shields said. "I have no
evidence of a letter from Bob Woolmer resigning."


Meanwhile Shields denied British press reports which had quoted
him as saying that a second post mortem of Woolmer's was to be
carried out in order to ward off speculation that the first
examination had been mishandled.


"I can assure you there is no post mortem, there is no planned
second post mortem," Shields said, reiterating his position that
there was clear evidence Woolmer had been murdered.

