

Stuart Appleby, a six-stroke winner at last year's Houston Open,
hopes to revive a difficult year when he defends the crown
starting Thursday at the final tuenup for next week's Masters.


The Australian was the first wire-to-wire winner in the 60-year
history of the tournament last year and matched the largest
margin of victory in event history in 2006 when it was played a
month later, after the year's first major.


Now Appleby, who has yet to break 70 in six PGA starts this year,
will try to find his form before the sport's best at Augusta
National Golf Club starting Monday for practice before the year's
first major championship.


He will also try to break an Aussie jinx. The Masters is the only
major that no Australian has ever won.


World number one Tiger Woods, like many of his peers, is taking
this week off. So are defending Masters champion Phil Mickelson,
world number two Jim Furyk, Fiji's Vijay Singh and South African
Ernie Els.


But this 5.5 million-dollar event does have some big names trying
to round their games into shape. They include eighth-ranked
American David Toms, who helped architect Rees Jones design the
Redstone Golf Club layout.


Ireland's Padraig Harrington, England's Lee Westwood and David
Howell, Aussie Adam Scott, Argentina's Angel Cabrera, New
Zealand's Michael Campbell, South Korean KJ Choi, South African
Tim Clark, Sweden's Robert Karlsson, Germany's Bernhard Langer
and Spain's Jose Maria Olazabal and Miguel Angel Jimenez are
among those playing here before traveling to Augusta.

