

Northern Ireland manager Lawrie Sanchez insists he won't get
carried away despite watching David Healy put his side on top of
Euro 2008 qualifying Group F.


Healy followed his hat-trick against Liechtenstein on Saturday
with two more goals at Windsor Park on Wednesday as Sanchez's
team beat Sweden 2-1 and moved into first place in the race to
reach the finals in Austria and Switzerland.


The Leeds striker, who has now scored 29 goals in 58
international appearances, equalised Johan Elmander's opener
before grabbing a second half winner that put Lawrie Sanchez's
side in pole position in a qualifying group for the first time
since 1988.


Northern Ireland haven't qualified for a major tournament since
the 1986 World Cup in Mexico and Sanchez is keeping calm despite
the heady atmosphere in Belfast.


"It's great to be top of the group at the halfway stage," Sanchez
said. "Thirteen points from six games is phenomenal, but we'll
have to get as many if not more from the next six. There is a lot
of football left in this group."


If Northern Ireland are to qualify, so much will rely on the form
of Healy, who Sanchez hailed as a finisher of the highest
quality.


"I've run out of words to describe David Healy. He was given two
chances tonight and he scored both of them, that's world-class
finishing.


"I always thought there were goals in this game tonight - we've
now shown we have got great resilience and that has been the
trademark of this campaign. But we won't get carried away."


Healy added: "We've improved leaps and bounds since the Iceland
defeat last year and you can see the benefits. The first goal was
so important but at Windsor Park they are all sweet strikes."


Healy served notice of his threat to the Sweden defence after
just two minutes as he met Damien Johnson's cross with a shot
that hit the side-netting.


Sweden, who had won their previous four qualifiers to head the
group, made a cautious start, but they almost went in front when
Zlatan Ibrahimovic shot narrowly wide in the 24th minute.


Sanchez's team were equally close a minute later when Michael
Duff headed just over the bar following a corner from Chris
Brunt.


But Sweden opened the scoring in the 27th minute with a fine
counter-attack. After a probing spell of possession, Niclas
Alexandersson's knock back teed up Elmander and the striker drove
home from close range.


That setback only served to redouble the hosts' efforts and they
were level four minutes later.


Healy, who struggles to hold down a place in Dennis Wise's Leeds
team, has been in superb form for his country and he produced a
fine equaliser.


He found space between two defenders to send a superb volley over
the head of Andreas Isaksson for his eighth goal of the
qualifying campaign.


Sweden nearly reclaimed the lead soon after half time when
Ibrahimovic's effort was scrambled off the line by Grant McCann.


Just as the visitors looked set to exert a spell of pressure,
Northern Ireland stole the lead.


Sanchez had brought out the best in Healy and the forward made it
21 goals in 27 matches under the former Wycombe manager in the
58th minute.


Northern Ireland have become a tough nut to crack under Sanchez
and they refused to surrender their lead, leaving Sweden to join
England and Spain as the latest famous scalp for the hosts.

