

Leading Chinese actress Gong Li is getting negative reviews for
her role as a politician, with critics slamming her for wearing
fur while seeking to lobby for environmental protection.


During this month's annual session of China's parliament, Gong
put forward a proposal to clean up the environment in her role as
a delegate to the Chinese People's Political Consultative
Conference, the nation's lower house.


But the state-run media has splashed photos of the star of
"Memoirs of a Geisha" wearing a fur over her shoulders during the
two-week meeting, resulting in angry cries for her removal from
the political body.


One citizen from southwest China's Sichuan province even went so
far as to file a lawsuit calling for Gong's removal.


"I want to warn Gong Li that if you are going to be a
spokesperson for a cause, then you have to take on the social
responsibility," The First newspaper on Thursday quoted plaintiff
Zhou Xin as saying.


In a poll run by the Beijing Youth Daily's website, 52 percent of
over 12,000 respondents said Gong had no right to serve in the
lower house, while 26 percent said she was vastly unqualified.


About 15 percent said that Gong was shameless to wear a fur while
speaking out for environmental causes, while six percent said the
actress "should be punished".


But consistent with the way Chinese polls are often run, the
website did not pose questions that would allow expressions of
support for Gong.


Gong's manager has been forced to address the controversy, saying
she is being unfairly criticised by people jealous of her
success.


"This is why people don't want to become famous," The First
quoted Zeng Jingchao as saying.

