

The detective heading the inquiry into murdered Pakistan cricket
coach Bob Woolmer on Wednesday denied reports saying a second
post mortem was to be carried out.


Jamaica deputy police commissioner Mark Shields was widely quoted
by British newspapers as saying a follow-up examination of
Woolmer's body was planned in order to pre-empt arguments from
defence lawyers in the event of an arrest.


However Shields denied the reports in a press conference at the
Pegasus Hotel, where Woolmer's strangled body was found on March
18 following his team's shock World Cup exit to Ireland.


"I can assure you there is no post mortem, there is no planned
second post mortem," Shields said, adding that any post mortem
would only be announced in consultation with the Kingston
coroner's office.


"If there was any question of a second post mortem it would be
something that I would discuss with him and announce," Shields
said.


Press reports earlier said the new examination would be held to
ward off speculation that the initial post mortem had been
bungled.


Although there is no evidence that Kingston pathologist Ere
Seshaiah bungled his first examination, which found that Woolmer
was killed by "manual strangulation", a whispering campaign
questioning the verdict has gathered pace, according to press
reports.


Allegations have been levelled by former Test players and
International Cricket Council officials that Woolmer died of
natural causes, speculating that a broken bone in his neck may
have been caused by falling against a sink.


When asked about the speculation on Monday, Shields said he was
confident that Woolmer was murdered, citing evidence from the
crime scene not yet disclosed to the public which supported the
case.


"There is very clear evidence of murder," Shields told reporters.

