

The Arab world is extremely critical of the US role in Iraq but
certain countries are also critical of Iran's influence there as
the country teeters on the brink of civil war, according to a US
poll published Wednesday.


The Zogby International/Arab American Institute (AAI) poll was
conducted between February 6 and March 10 and surveyed 3,400
Arabs in five countries: Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Jordan, United Arab
Emirates and Lebanon.


Asked about the role of the United States in Iraq, four years
after the US-led invasion there, an overwhelming majority said it
was negative: 68 percent in Saudi Arabia, 83 percent in Egypt and
96 percent in Jordan.


Seventy-six percent of those polled in Lebanon and 70 percent in
the UAE had a negative view of the US role in Iraq.


But 66 percent of Egyptians, 73 percent of Jordanians, 69 percent
of Lebanese and 78 percent of Saudis also viewed Iran's role as
negative.


"Of particular concern to Arabs polled ... is the degree to which
the war has emboldened neighboring Iran and the heightened danger
that Iraq may unravel in a civil war that could spill over into
the broader region," the AAI said.


Asked which country had benefited most from the Iraq war,
opinions were split: in Egypt the United States was the top
gainer, with 62 percent; in Saudi Arabia and Lebanon it was Iran,
at 51 percent.


Those interviewed in the UAE were torn, with Iran tipped at 41
percent and the US at 40 percent.


Respondents who cited Iraq as the main beneficiary ranged between
3.0 to 16 percent, depending on the country.


The margin of error in Egypt and Saudi Arabia was 3.5 percentage
points; in Jordan, the UAE and Lebanon it was 4.1 percentage
points.

