

Stephon Marbury buried a brace of big 3-pointers in the stretch
on Wednesday as the Knicks ended a four-game National Basketball
Association skid with a 97-93 victory over the Cleveland
Cavaliers.


Eddy Curry had 25 points and Marbury and Channing Frye scored 16
points apiece for New York, who improved to 31-40 and tied
Indiana 31-40 - two games behind New Jersey in the battle for the
eighth and final playoff spot in the East.


In the most important stretch of the campaign, the Knicks have
had bad luck with injuries.


Forward David Lee (ankle), guard Jamal Crawford (stress fracture
ankle), and forward Quentin Richardson (back) continued to sit
out.


In the first quarter, guard Steve Francis added to the list,
spraining his ankle with 2:20 left. X-rays were negative, but he
did not return to action.


With his backcourt mate down, Marbury stepped up, shooting
6-of-15 from the field - including 2-of-6 on 3-pointers. But both
of his shots from the arc saved the game for the Knicks.


After Marbury nailed a 3-pointer to give the Knicks a 94-89 lead
with 1:41 left, the Cavaliers scored four straight points, but
Zydrunas Ilgauskas missed a potential game-tying free throw with
34 seconds left.


Marbury then sealed the win with a little help from the rim. The
veteran point guard's 3-pointer bounced in and out and back in
again to make it 97-93 with 8.5 seconds remaining.


Curry was 7-of-13 from the floor and 11-of-14 from the free-throw
line.


Cavaliers star LeBron James struggled, scoring 24 points on just
6-of-20 shooting. Cleveland are now three games behind Detroit
for first place in the Central Division and the best record in
the Eastern Conference.

