

Injury-plagued Australian international Harry Kewell is expected
to make his long-awaited comeback for Liverpool early next month,
reports said here Thursday.


The left-sided midfielder, who last played for Australia against
Croatia at the World Cup in Germany, has marked down April 10 as
his comeback match for Liverpool reserves against Sheffield
United at Bramall Lane, the reports said.


After operations on foot, ankle and groin ailments, Kewell, 28,
is attempting to return and repay Liverpool's faith while
preparing for Australia's first foray into the Asian Cup finals
in July.


"It's terrific that he's on the way back," interim Australian
coach Graham Arnold told Thursday's Sydney Daily Telegraph.


"We can't bank on Harry's fitness just yet because of what he's
been through but to have him available again would be a huge
boost for the team and the country.


"A player of his calibre being fit and hungry lifts everybody
around the team. He's world class."


Kewell has been back in training for several weeks with
Liverpool, whom he  last appeared for in May's FA Cup final
against Arsenal.


One unnamed teammate told the newspaper: "He's running, kicking,
dribbling and even tackling, doing all the things he needs to get
back to the top again.


"He's tested himself fully and there haven't been any adverse
reactions. He's got a spring in his step and he's smiling again.
He's looking sharper every day and don't be surprised to see him
back very soon."


Kewell, whose goal against Croatia put Australia into the second
round of the World Cup, suffered a form of septic arthritis in
his left toe.


The newspaper speculated that if Kewell comes through his
reserve-team outing intact, he could be back in Rafa Benitez's
squad for the premiership trip to Manchester City on April 14.

