

A Vietnamese Catholic priest and pro-democracy activist is set to
face trial Friday accused of undermining the communist state,
amid what dissidents say is a worsening human rights crackdown.


Father Nguyen Van Ly, 60, could face up to 20 years' jail if
found guilty of spreading propaganda against the state when he
faces the court along with several other dissidents.


His trial in the central city of Hue, set to last just one day,
would be the first of several expected in coming months against
prominent pro-democracy advocates, also including two Hanoi human
rights lawyers detained this month.


Civil rights group including US-based Human Rights Watch (HRW),
overseas Vietnamese dissidents and US and European politicians
have accused Vietnam of stepping up its repression against pro-
democracy activists this year.


HRW has accused Vietnam of launching "one of the worst crackdowns
on peaceful dissidents in 20 years."


It charged Hanoi felt "emboldened by international recognition"
after recent diplomatic milestones, including hosting an Asia-
Pacific Economic Cooperation summit in November and joining the
World Trade Organisation in January.


Ly -- who has spent a total of 14 years in prison since 1983 for
acting against the state -- is accused of resuming his political
activities after he was freed from jail in a 2005 amnesty and
placed under house arrest.


Police say he is a founding member of the outlawed "Bloc 8406"
pro-democracy coalition, named after its April 8 launch last
year, and was active in the banned Vietnam Progression Party and
another group with overseas links.


Police raided his residence on February 18 and seized computers,
mobile phone cards, Internet connection devices and stacks of
documents, and moved him to the Ben Cui parish, about 20
kilometres (12 miles) from Hue.


Under article 88 of Vietnam's criminal code, which bans
"propagating against" the state, he would face three to 12 years'
jail if found guilty, or a 20-year sentence for "particularly
serious crimes."


In coming months two other dissidents, arrested on March 6, are
expected to be tried on the same charges -- Hanoi-based lawyer
Nguyen Van Dai, who last year founded the Committee for Human
Rights in Vietnam, and his colleague Le Thi Cong Nhan.


Observers say Vietnam has sent mixed signals recently on civil
liberties.


It pledged greater religious openness and has resumed diplomatic
contacts with the Vatican this year. Vietnam has also indicated
it may soon free prominent dissident journalist Nguyen Vu Binh,
jailed since 2003.


Last week, President Nguyen Minh Triet abolished "administrative
detention" under the decade-old Decree 31 used to hold without
trial people accused of national security crimes. But diplomats
cautioned that it remained to be seen whether Hanoi would now use
other laws to hold dissidents.


Vietnam -- one of the world's five remaining communist-ruled
states alongside China, North Korea, Laos and Cuba -- has been
adamant that it will prosecute those who oppose the government.


"The Vietnamese constitution states that Vietnam has a one-party
political system," Deputy Public Security Minister Senior
Lieutenant General Nguyen Van Huong was quoted as saying by the
Thanh Nien daily last week.


"It's illegal if some people want to establish another party, not
to mention secretly inciting other people to join their
organisation and aim to overthrow the existing government."

