

Japanese share prices fell 0.92 percent in morning deals
Thursday, tracking Wall Street lower amid worries about the
health of the US economy and a stronger yen, dealer said.


They said that investors reacted cautiously to higher oil prices
and remarks by US Federal Reserve chief Ben Bernanke, which were
largely taken to leave the outlook unchanged and the focus
remaining on inflation.


Wall Street fell as Bernanke's comments provided on fresh lead on
the prospect of an early cut in interest rates.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
fell 158.48 points to 17,096.25 by the lunch break.


The TOPIX index of all issues on the Tokyo Stock Exchange's first
section shed 15.77 points -- also a fall of 0.92 percent -- to
1,695.29.


Decliners beat gainers 1,369 to 262, with 87 stocks flat.


Volume amounted to 1.04 billion shares, unchanged from Wednesday
morning.


"Sentiment continued to be fragile amid ongoing uncertainties
about the outlook for the US economy and stock markets," said
Tatsuo Kurokawa, a strategist at Japan Asia Securities.


"The Japanese market's upside prospects depend on the performance
of Wall Street," he added.


On Wall Street the Dow Jones index fell 0.78 percent on Wednesday
after Bernanke told Congress the outlook for the depressed
housing market was uncertain and that inflation was still a
concern.


Stocks of technology and auto companies were generally lower as
they rely on the US economy for a large part of their earnings.


Sony fell 150 yen or 2.47 percent to 5,930 and Canon shed 120 yen
or 1.87 percent to 6,290.


Toyota Motor lost 70 yen or 0.92 percent at 7,550.


Real estate, banking and steel stocks gave back some of their
recent gains.


Nippon Steel lost 24 yen or 2.81 percent to 831, Mizuho Financial
Group shed 11,000 yen or 1.46 percent to 740,000 and Mitsui
Fudosan slipped 20 yen or 0.59 percent to 3,360.

