

China CITIC Bank Corp Ltd, the nation's seventh largest lender,
aims to raise up to five billion dollars in a Shanghai and Hong
Kong dual listing on April 27, a Hong Kong report said Thursday.


The bank plans to sell a combined 7.25 billion shares or 18.9 per
cent of its enlarged share capital in the float, the South China
Morning Post reported.


The bank won approval for the Hong Kong listing on Wednesday and
said in its draft initial public offering (IPO) prospectus, which
will be reviewed by the securities regulator next Monday, that it
expects to issue 2.3 billion A-shares in Shanghai.


Prices for the float were not specified but previous reports said
they would be confirmed eight to 10 days before the sale.


At the end of 2006, the bank's capital adequacy ratio -- a basic
measure of financial health -- stood at 9.4 percent, up from 8.1
percent in 2005.


It has also courted strategic investors, selling a 16.4 percent
stake to CITIC International Financial Holdings, CITIC Group's
Hong Kong-based flagship company, and a 4.83 percent share to
BBVA, Spain's second-largest bank.


About 20.7 percent of the new shares would be offered to the two
strategic investors so that their stakes would not be diluted,
the Hong Kong newspaper said, citing a sales document sent to
fund managers.


The bank plans to pay 25 to 35 percent of its net profit as
dividends from this year to 2009. It expects earnings of at least
5.7 billion yuan in 2007.


If both floats go ahead, CITIC Bank will become the second
company, after the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China last
year, to list simultaneously in Shanghai and Hong Kong.

