

US shares fell heavily Wednesday amid economic concerns after
Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke told Congress the outlook
for the depressed housing market was "uncertain."


Surging world oil prices also hammered stocks amid geopolitical
concerns related to Iran and Tehran's holding of 15 British
military personnel seized in the Gulf.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed down 96.93 points (0.78
percent) at 12,300.36.


The Nasdaq composite finished 20.33 points (0.83 percent) lower
at 2,417.10 while the broad-market Standard and Poor's 500
dropped 11.38 points (0.80 percent) to 1,417.23.


"Overall, the economy appears likely to continue to expand at a
moderate pace over the coming quarters," Bernanke said in
testimony to Congress, adding however, that "the near-term
prospects for the housing market remain uncertain."


The Fed chief's comments spooked investors who were already
uneasy about the slump in the US housing market and rising home
foreclosures.


Bernanke "appeared to dash hopes that the Fed will lower interest
rates any time soon," said AG Edwards chief market strategist Al
Goldman.


"Middle East concerns are also getting the market's attention, as
the United Kingdom stepped up pressure on Iran to release 15
British military personnel," Goldman said.


A weaker-than-expected report on durable goods orders also
weighed down the stock market.


Orders for manufactured US durable goods rebounded 2.5 percent in
February, mainly as demand for new civilian and military aircraft
picked up, the Commerce Department said, but the rebound was
weaker than most analysts had anticipated.


Most analysts had expected that orders for big-ticket
manufactured goods, including cars, aircraft and washing
machines, would increase 3.5 percent.


"Given how weak orders were in January, the February gain is
disappointing and may point to more generalized weakness in the
economy," said Joel Naroff,  of Naroff Economic Advisors.


On the stock front, home builder stocks remained under pressure.
Lennar homes closed down 96 cents at 43.54 dollars while KB Home
was 1.43 dollars lower at 43.88 dollars.


Another homebuilder, Beazer Homes, plunged 2.64 dollars, or over
eight percent, to 28.77 dollars after disclosing a federal probe
into potentially fraudulent practices.


But declines were also spread across other sectors. ExxonMobil
shed 15 cents to 75.56 dollars while General Motors was 94 cents
lower at 31.24 dollars and Citigroup lost 10 cents to 50.96
dollars.


Oil market jitters tied to Iran also pushed stocks lower, traders
said.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, leapt 1.15 dollars to close at 64.08 dollars a
barrel.


Bond prices dropped as the yield on the 10-year US Treasury bond
rose to 4.620 percent from 4.612 percent Tuesday and that on the
30-year bond climbed to 4.831 percent from 4.809 percent. Bond
yields and prices move in opposite directions.

