

Australia Thursday announced a "vigorous" campaign of support for
ordinary Zimbabweans against the regime of President Robert
Mugabe.


A special fund would aim to alleviate economic hardships and help
Zimbabweans reassert their political and civil rights, Foreign
Minister Alexander Downer said in a statement.


"The Australian government is to launch a new and vigorous
campaign of support for the people of Zimbabwe against the
repressive and incompetent policies of the Mugabe regime," he
said.


"The Australian Fund for Zimbabwe will aim to alleviate some of
the worst effects of Zimbabwe's economic failures. It will also
expand significantly our efforts to help ordinary Zimbabweans
reassert their political and civil rights."


Mugabe provoked international outrage with a crackdown on dissent
this month in which opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai and
several of his supporters were badly beaten by police after a
demonstrator was shot dead.


"Australia helped to bring democracy to Zimbabwe in 1980 and is
now deeply shocked by the shameful incompetence and vindictive
brutality of the Mugabe regime," Downer said.


Australia had increased its aid for Zimbabwe by 33 percent this
year to an estimated 6.0 (4.8 million US) dollars, he said.


"In response to the brutal attacks by the Zimbabwean authorities
on its political opponents, Australia's funding through civil
society organisations has been expanded.


"We recognise that more can, and should, be done. We will make
further significant increases in our commitment into the future."


Downer said more than three million Zimbabweans now relied on
food aid in a country which was previously a net exporter of
food, and that average life expectancy in Zimbabwe was the lowest
in the world, at only 33 years.

