

Football legend Diego Maradona was rushed to a hospital in
Argentina's capital Wednesday after suffering an unspecified
"decompensation," the local Guemes Hospital said.


Maradona was taken by ambulance to the hospital "to undergo an
examination after having suffered a decompensation," it said in a
statement, while not explaining any details.


However, the hospital said, "it does not have any relation to the
consumption of dangerous drugs."


"He's staying, he's staying ... his life is not in danger," said
his personal doctor Aldredo Cahe outside the hospital.


The troubled 46-year-old star was taken to the hospital after
feeling ill at his parents' house, Argentine television said.


His ex-wife Claudia Villafane, his daughters Dalma and Giannina,
and Cahe, arrived at the facility later.


Outside a team of police guards lined up and dozens of fans stood
around anxiously waiting for news about the former football
star's health.


Maradona shares the FIFA title of the 20th century's best player
with Brazil's Pele after a sparkling career with Boca Juniors,
Barcelona and Napoli, and the 1986 World Cup trophy with
Argentina.


But his career was dogged by controversy over misbehavior on and
off the field, including several suspensions for drug use.


Since he stopped playing he has undergone treatment for substance
abuse and also for weight gain.


But newspaper photographs early this month appeared to show he
had regained many of the 50 kilograms (110 pounds) lost in his
crash weight-loss treatment, and one showed him in a Buenos Aires
nightclub with an injured nose after a fall off his chair.


Also, early this month, tax authorities instructed the Argentine
central bank to collect information about Maradona's bank
accounts, suggesting he was under investigation for financial
irregularities.


On Saturday Cahe told reporters that Maradona was considering
going to Switzerland to deal with a new surge in his weight,
following his stomach reduction surgery in Colombia.


"He is 3.6 kilograms (7.9 pounds) too big. For this we are
planning something like a vacation, to leave the country a little
bit to escape our friends and the environment," Cahe said then.


It was not clear then how his hospitalization would affect those
plans.


Born October 30, 1960 just outside Buenos Aires, Maradona amassed
a fortune during 21 years in football.


He proved his genius in the crucible of the 1986 World Cup finals
in Mexico, with a series of brilliant displays which led
Argentina to the title.


Two goals in the quarter-final against England encapsulated the
noble and ugly sides of his game. The first strike was the
notorious "Hand of God" effort, as Maradona fisted the ball over
England goalkeeper Peter Shilton.


The stocky genius redeemed himself with the footballing Gods with
his second goal however, capping a stunning individual run
through most of the England team.


The goal has been called one of the most brilliant ever in the
game.


But since then his life on and off the pitch has been checkered
by embarrassing episodes, which only worsened since his
retirement at 37.


The scandals have run the gamut of marital infidelity, cocaine
use and tax evasion.


In April 2000 Maradona had a heart attack in Uruguay following a
cocaine overdose. Four years later, another heart attack followed
another overdose. After spending weeks in intensive care, his
weight ballooned to alarming levels, prompting him to undergo
gastric bypass surgery in 2005.


In 2006, Italian police stripped the star of two Rolex watches
during a visit to Naples, in line with a judicial order requiring
payment of a reported 31 million Euros (40 million dollars) worth
of back taxes in Italy.

