

Fast-food giants McDonald's, Kentucky Fried Chicken, and Pizza
Hut have been accused of violating Chinese labour laws by
underpaying part-time workers by up to 40 percent, state media
said Thursday.


McDonald's pays part-timers only four yuan (52 cents) per hour,
KFC 4.7 yuan and Pizza Hut five yuan despite a minimum wage of
7.5 yuan in Guangzhou city in the southern province of Guangdong,
the China Daily said.


In an undercover investigation by New Express, a local newspaper
in Guangzhou, reporters found part-time employees, mostly college
students, were also asked to sometimes work more than 10 hours a
day.


Additional criticism included the employers' refusal to sign
labour contracts or insure part-time workers against workplace
injuries, the report said.


"We will ask the fast food chains to compensate the part-timers
if they are found to have violated labour laws," said Zhang
Fengqi, deputy director of the provincial labour and social
security department in Guangdong.


"If the case is serious, they will be dealt with according to
law," he added.


When asked to comment on the allegations, McDonald's insisted its
practices did not break regulations.


"As a responsible employer, we have complied with pertinent laws
and regulations issued by the government and our payment standard
is in line with related rules in the country," said a company
statement emailed to AFP.


George Gu, a McDonald's spokesman, said the company was in talks
with provincial labour authorities on the proper interpretation
of local employment rules.


He said these rules vary from one region to another and were not
clear on definitions such as part-time and full-time employment.


Yum! Brands Inc, which owns both KFC and Pizza Hut, did not
immediately reply to requests for comment.


McDonald's and KFC have nearly 3,000 outlets across China and
employ up to 200,000 people, according to previous reports.

