

World championship leader Marcus Gronholm and three-time reigning
champion Sebastien Loeb resume their rivalry in this week's rally
of Portugal which returns after a lengthy absence.


It will be the first time Frenchman Loeb, four points behind the
Finn in the drivers' title race, has competed in this rally which
was last raced in 2001, though Gronholm was present that year.


And the Ford driver has vivid memories of the 2001 edition.


"The weather conditions were unbelievable with torrential rain,
muddy special stages and fog. It was horrible," he said.


However far from being unhappy at competing again in Portugal,
Gronholm had other happier recollections. "I have other better
memories of Portugal," he added.


"I competed there for the first time in 1995 when I retired, as
happened the following three years, then I finished second in
2000 and third in 2001."


An enthusiastic welcome is expected should those lining the route
be as welcoming at six years ago.


"The crowds were enormous and very enthusiastic," Gronholm
continued.


"There's a different course this year and it will be new to
everybody but I'm sure there will be thousands of people lining
the roads."


The boss of Citroen sport, Guy Frequelin, also expected a
fantastic reception.


"From a sporting point of view, Portugal has always been a
country where motorsport gets an incredible welcome," said
Frequelin.


"It's great to perform in front of spectators who know the sport
well and get involved."


The rally will take place in the Algarve in the south of the
country, starting and finishing, on Sunday, in the aptly-named
Algarve stadium, which was built for the Euro 2004 football
finals.


Leader Gronholm has 32 points in the drivers' standings, followed
by Loeb on 28, Finn Mikko Hirvonen on 26 and Spaniard Dani Sordo
on 13. Ford lead the constructors' standings with 58 points from
Citroen on 43.

