

Britain said on Wednesday that Iran's pledge to release a British
servicewoman it is holding within the next two days was "not good
enough", and called once again for the release of all 15 naval
personnel being detained by Tehran.


"Obviously the release of one person, one of the military
personnel and not the others, is not good enough," a British
foreign ministry spokesman told AFP.


"All personnel were in Iraqi waters carrying out their duties,
under a UN Security Council resolution mandate at the request of
the government of Iraq, and we expect them all to be released,
and for the British government to have immediate consular access
as a prelude to their release."


Britain insists the 15, including 26-year-old Faye Turney whom
Tehran is offering to release, were on a "routine" anti-smuggling
operation inside Iraqi waters when they were seized at gunpoint
in the northern Gulf.


Tehran, which is already at odds with the West over its
controversial nuclear programme, says they entered Iranian
territorial waters illegally.


The crisis prompted British Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett to
announce a freeze to all dealings with Iran apart from contacts
to resolve the standoff that began on Friday with Iran's seizure
of the 15 naval personnel in the Gulf.


Iran drew fresh condemnation from Britain later Tuesday by
parading some of the captive service personnel on state
television.


The sole woman among them, Turney, was shown admitting that she
and her comrades had strayed into Iranian waters but the
circumstances of the recording of the footage were unclear.

