

Princess Leia, Darth Vader and Han Solo and other "Star Wars"
heroes are starring in a new collection of stamps the US Postal
Service unveiled Wednesday to celebrate the 30th anniversary of
the epic film.


The USPS launched the stamps at Grauman's Chinese Theater in
Hollywood, where the first "Star Wars" movie was screened on May
25, 1977.


The collection of 15 stamps, which go on sale on May 25, include
scenes from all six movies of the series. Each stamp is worth 41
cents, which will be the minimum cost of mailing a basic letter
after postal rates go up on May 14.


Fans can also vote on the USPS website and pick their favorite
stamp of the series. The winner will be re-issued at mid-year as
an individual stamp.


According to the financial magazine Forbes, director George
Lucas's "Star Wars" franchise has generated 20 billion dollars in
sales around the world, including movies, videos and spinoff
products.


USPS Stamp Services director David Failor said he believed the
stamps could be as popular as the Elvis Presley stamps issued in
1993 honoring the "King of Rock and Roll."


"We believe these stamps have the potential of reaching the
blockbuster status of the Elvis stamp, a milestone only the
'Force' could attempt to surpass," he said.


More than one million Americans voted by mail to choose an Elvis
stamp.


In early March the USPS announced that some 400 mailboxes across
the United States would be made up to look like R2-D2, the stubby
robot that appears in all six of the "Star Wars" movies.

