

Heard the one about the Irishmen, the Pakistanis and the
Englishmen?


Kyle McCallan has and he's not laughing.


The Irish spinner is fed up of hearing critics insist that World
Cup debutants Ireland have no place in the Super Eights and that
they only made it through because they got lucky against an
under-cooked Pakistan side.


"I am reading so many comments at the moment, saying Ireland
shouldn't be in the Super Eights. No matter what you do, people
are trying to knock you down. They are saying we have qualified
on the basis of one performance," school teacher McCallan said.


"Hasn't everyone? England lost to New Zealand. They are only in
the Super Eights because they beat Kenya.


"They're all motivating factors for us to go out and perform
another upset."


Ireland get their chance to prove they belong in the second round
when they face England in their first Super Eights clash here on
Friday.


It will be the second match between Ireland and England in nine
months with England winning in Belfast by 38 runs in June last
year.


"We were disappointed at how we bowled against England in
Belfast," said McCallan.


"They haven't got Marcus Trescothick, who got a big hundred
against us, albeit they now have Kevin Pietersen and Andrew
Flintoff, but we didn't disgrace ourselves in that match and
we'll take that experience into Friday's game.


"They've lost Harmison from that attack and while we cannot be
overly-confident going into the game, we can realistically
compete with them. Having heard what we've heard about the pitch
here, apparently it suits the slower bowlers so I hope that they
will play the pace bowlers. It will come on to the bat and make
for faster scoring."


"The guys have coped with the quicker bowling rather well and if
we can hit the ball down the ground in the middle overs, we
should get more runs. The batters know what they have to do."

