

Kevin Pietersen may be the world's top-ranked batsman but, by his
own admission, he's not the best.


The South African-born England star displaced Australia's Michael
Hussey this week as the top one-day batsman, but he insists there
are better players out there.


"I know there are better players than me - Ricky Ponting, Matthew
Hayden, people like that are better than me," said Pietersen who
is key to his side's hopes of winning the World Cup for the first
time.


"There are a lot more important things than rankings like winning
the World Cup and to be winning games with this team.


"Statistics mean a lot and it's great to be number one. But I am
happy with the way I am playing and now I hope to win a few more
matches with England and be in the final of the World Cup in
Barbados on April 28."


Pietersen has hit two half centuries already in the World Cup
with a 60 in the Group C defeat against New Zealand and 56 in the
win over Kenya. The only black mark on his World Cup record is a
five against Canada.


Significantly for England, Pietersen is also showing little sign
of the after- effects of the broken rib he suffered in the one-
day series against Australia in the run-up to the World Cup.


"I started my international career really well on the tour of
South Africa," said the 26-year-old batsman.


"After that it got complicated because opponents start to
concentrate on your weaknesses. But I'm getting it right now. It
was frustrating what happened in Australia becasue the wickets
there are fantastic."


Pietersen has plenty of ambitions to fulfil with England and
wants to convert great starts into big, memorable scores.


"I haven't scored enough 100s," he admitted.


"I have scored three international one-day centuries and they
came in my fist 10 matches.


"It's a mental thing for me. If I get to 70, I should be getting
to 100."

