

The United States played to a goalless draw against Guatemala
here Wednesday in a curtain-raiser to the teams' clash in the
opening match in Group B in the CONCACAF Gold Cup in June.


The draw, in front of 10,932 fans, ended Bob Bradley's run of
three straight victories as coach of the United States. It also
ended Landon Donovan's three- game goal-scoring streak, having
scored five goals in the USA's opening three games of 2007.


"I think it was a good learning experience, particularly for our
younger players," Bradley said. "It's a different kind of game,
one that they need to see, because we all understand that we are
going to see these kind of games in qualifying. At times tonight
it seemed like we were afraid to make a mistake. We have to find
the confidence to push the game harder."


Guatemala's best chance in the first half came on the stroke of
halftime when explosive forward Carlos Ruiz's scissor-kick toward
goal bounced over the crossbar.


The USA had a chance in the 61st minute, when Donovan put a ball
into the area that was weakly cleared to a wide-open Jonathan
Spector.


The West Ham defender tried to hammer an awkward shot on goal
from 15 yards out, but couldn't connect with any force.


The best chance of the game for either team came moments later
when Clint Dempsey put the ball through to Justin Mapp in the
left side of the area, but Mapp blasted his low attempt wide of
the right post.


The scoreless draw for the Americans came on the heels of a 3-1
victory over Ecuador on Sunday in Tampa, Florida, which featured
a hat trick from Donovan.


The USA won't play again until they take on China on June 2 in
San Jose, California.


Five days later, they launch their defence of the CONCACAF Gold
Cup title. After the Gold Cup, which runs from June 6-24, the
Americans will play by invitation in South America's Copa
America.

