

Glenn McGrath may be on the verge of breaking Wasim Akram's
record for the most World Cup wickets but as far as West Indies
captain Brian Lara is concerned the Pakistan great remains the
best bowler he's faced in his career.


Australia quick McGrath took three for 31 in world champions
Australia's 103-run victory against hosts the West Indies here
Wednesday to move within one of Akram's World Cup career record
of 55 wickets.


Should he draw level with the landmark on Saturday against
Bangladesh, McGrath will have reached Akram's record in five
fewer World Cup matches (33 compared to Akram's 38).


Lara, who made 77 against Australia, said McGrath had been helped
by the fact he'd played in the last three World Cup finals - the
defeat to Sri Lanka in 1996 and the wins over Pakistan and India
in 1999 and 2003 respectively.


"If you play a number of World Cup matches - McGrath has been to
the final in the last three World Cups, 1996, 1999 and 2003 -
that means he has played a lot of games.


"But it doesn't take away from the fact he is an outstanding fast
bowler and he deserves to be up there with the very best."


However, Lara said Akram - renowned for his ability to swing the
ball both ways to devastating effect and arguably the greatest
left-arm quick world cricket has known - was in a class of his
own.


"For me over my 15 or 16 years of playing international cricket,
Tests and one- day internationals, Wasim Akram is definitely the
most outstanding bowler I've ever faced," insisted Lara, Test
cricket's all-time leading run-maker.


Akram, the only bowler in history to have taken 500 one-day
international wickets and a key member of the Pakistan team that
won the 1992 World Cup, retired four years ago.

