

The White House on Wednesday withdrew its nominee for the Belgian
ambassadorial post after he faced Democratic criticism for having
financed a controversial advertising campaign against
presidential hopeful John Kerry.


The nomination of businessman Sam Fox, who contributed as much as
50,000 dollars to an anti-Kerry campaign in 2004, was withdrawn
because he risked being rejected by the Democrat-led Senate,
White House spokeswoman Dana Perino said.


"The president believes that Mr. Fox is qualified to serve as
ambassador to Belgium," Perino said, citing his "long list of
accomplishments."


"Unfortunately, we received word that because of politics, some
members of the Senate would have voted against his nomination,
which would have prevented him from serving in this important
position," she said.


Kerry, a Democrat who now serves as a senator after his failed
bid to become president, said the Republican White House "made
the right decision" and hoped the move would mark "a new era" in
politics.


During the 2004 campaign, a group called Swift Boat Veterans for
Truth alleged that Kerry, a decorated war veteran, lied to obtain
two of his medals and that he betrayed US forces still in Vietnam
by alleging after he returned to the United States that US troops
committed atrocities.


Fox was a major contributor to the Swift Boat campaign.


In the United States, the administration often nominates generous
political donors to ambassadorial posts, but the practice has
become more difficult with the recent election of a Democrat-
controlled Congress.


"We are disappointed that they made their decision based upon
partisan politics instead of his leadership abilities, and that's
why we withdrew the nomination," Perino said.

