

Amnesty International demanded on Wednesday that the Zimbabwean
government cease its harassment and intimidation of opposition
activists, and called on regional governments to put pressure on
President Robert Mugabe's regime.


The London-based human rights group's comments were prompted by
claims from the main opposition party Movement for Democratic
Change (MDC), which said that party leader Morgan Tsvangirai was
among a group arrested by police during a raid on the party's
headquarters.


However, security forces denied they had detained Tsvangirai
barely a fortnight after his arrest on March 11 when he was badly
beaten in detention.


"We are very concerned by reports of continuing brutal attacks on
opposition activists in Zimbabwe and call on the government to
stop all acts of violence and intimidation against opposition
activists," said Kolawole Olaniyan, the director of Amnesty's
Africa programme.


The arrests came as Mugabe jetted off to a summit of the
14-nation Southern African Development Community (SADC) in the
Tanzanian capital Dar es Salaam, with Amnesty urging regional
leaders to take the 83-year-old president to task.


"African leaders have allowed the government of Zimbabwe to
operate outside the international human rights framework by
deciding to adopt a strategy of quiet diplomacy -- a tactic that
in this case has left the victims of human rights violations to
suffer without protection," Olaniyan said.


"SADC leaders meeting in Tanzania must now send an unequivocal
message to the government of Zimbabwe that human rights
violations in that country will no longer be tolerated."


Apart from the political unrest, an inflation rate of 1,730
percent and unemployment at 80 percent has led around three
million Zimbabweans to emigrate and caused the virtual collapse
of an important market for the region.

