

Three people were killed and a 14-year-old girl was missing after
a ferry and a motor cruiser collided near Australia's iconic
Sydney Harbour Bridge, police said Thursday.


Police said the cause of the accident late Wednesday remained a
mystery as rescue helicopters and divers resumed the search
Thursday for the missing girl thrown from the pleasure craft into
the water by the force of the crash.


"We don't know what the recreational vessel was doing at the
time, whether it was stationary, whether it was underway, whether
there was an attempt to anchor it," Sydney Water Police commander
Terry Dalton told ABC radio.


"We just don't know and we won't until such time as witnesses
have been interviewed," he said, adding "there are no speed
restrictions in that area."


Police said about 12 people were aboard the 10 metre (33 feet)
wooden cruiser when it collided with the catamaran ferry near the
Harbour Bridge at about 10:45pm (1245GMT).


Two men and a woman, all aged in their 40s, died at the scene as
other ferries, police boats and a naval patrol vessel searched
for survivors.


The ferry, one of a fleet of 28 used by thousands of tourists and
commuters daily, had no passengers on board and was returning to
dock at the time of the accident.


Eight other passengers from the cruiser were injured, including a
35-year-old woman who had a leg amputated.


Clive Marshall, a passenger on one of the ferries helping in the
rescue, said it was a chaotic scene.


"There were people in the water. There was a lot of wreckage,
lots of shouting, mayhem, terrible sight," he told ABC radio.


The Sydney Morning Herald reported that ferry staff dived into
the water and rescued a number of passengers.


Police said both vessels involved in the accident had been
recovered and would be examined by forensic experts.

