

Kevin Doyle kept alive the Republic of Ireland's hopes of
reaching Euro 2008 as his goal clinched a crucial 1-0 win against
Slovakia on Wednesday.


Doyle struck in the early stages at Croke Park and Steve
Staunton's side held on a fourth consecutive victory in
qualifying Group D that puts them level on points with leaders
Germany and second placed Czech Republic.


Although Ireland could hardly claim to have outplayed the
Slovaks, they displayed enough passion to suggest their under-
fire coach is beginning to make his mark and they could yet make
it to the finals.


Ireland had looked nervous for long periods as they scraped past
a woeful Wales team on Saturday and, after a 15 minute delay for
crowd congestion, they started hesitently again.


Shay Given won his 80th cap, equalling the record for an Irish
goalkeeper previously held by Pat Bonner, and the Ireland captain
was quickly called into action as he turned away a shot from
Robert Vittek.


That stop was a wake-up call for Staunton's side and they
produced the perfect response by taking the lead in the 12th
minute.


Reading striker Doyle may not have started but for the suspension
that ruled out Robbie Keane, but he took full advantage of his
opportunity when he muscled past Martin Skrtel to meet Damien
Duff's free-kick with a near-post header that flashed past Kamil
Contofalsky.


Jan Kocian's team went close to equalising midway through the
half when Vittek fired in a low strike that forced Given to make
a scrambling save.


Doyle, still on a high after his second international goal,
infuriated Duff when he shot straight at Contofalsky rather than
pick out the unmarked winger.


Ireland were still far from convincing for long periods and
Vittek should have done better than shoot tamely wide after
finding himself in space.


Shane Long had a shot cleared off the line as Ireland roused
themselves in the final minutes and Slovakia could find no
response.

