

Birmingham City striker Nicklas Bendtner scored a goal less than
10 minutes from time as Denmark poached a 1-0 win over Germany in
Wednesday night's friendly in Duisburg.


Bendtner swept home a cross in the 81st minute as German coach
Joachim Loew suffered his first defeat in nine games since
succeeding Jurgen Klinsmann as Germany coach after last year's
World Cup.


Loew's brave decision to blood six new caps - including Hanover's
goalkeeper Robert Enke, Bayer Leverkusen midfielder Simon Rolfes
and VfB Stuttgart's Roberto Hilbert in the starting eleven -
backfired.


And with only three survivors from the 2-1 Euro 2008 qualifying
win over the Czech Republic on Saturday, the experienced Denmark
side finished stronger than their opponents and deserved the win.


Having rested eight of his first-choice players, including
Chelsea midfielder Michael Ballack and Arsenal goalkeeper Jens
Lehmann, Loew could only watch as his young side's finishing let
them down.


With Thomas Hitzlsperger and Schalke 04 striker Kevin Kuranyi the
only experienced campaigners in the side, Germany lacked the
tactical control and sharp finishing that had seen them win in
Prague.


Having scored both goals in Prague, Kuranyi had several half
chances to add to his 17 international strikes but his finishing
was wide of the mark.


His partner up front, Alemannia Aachen's Jan Schlaudraff, winning
only his third cap, also scuffed a handful of chances.


Denmark threatened when Jesper Groenkjaer clipped the bar with a
bullet header after 70 minutes, just as Bayer Leverkusen defender
Gonzalo Castro came on for his first cap.


The winning goal came in the 81st minute when Birmingham City
striker Nicklas Bendtner swept Groenkjaer's short pass from the
right past Enke.


Cologne striker Patrick Helmes, who came on for his first cap to
replace Schaludraff after 78 minutes, was denied two late chances
to score, but it was not enough to stop the Danes.

