

Rafi Eitan, a minister and former Mossad agent who helped to
capture Nazi fugitive Adolf Eichmann, will represent Israel
during a Holocaust memorial ceremony at Auschwitz on Monday, his
office said.


"Mr Eitan will represent the Israeli government during the March
of the Living," said an aide to the 80-year-old pensioner affairs
minister.


"Having been among those who captured the Nazi torturer Eichmann
exactly 47 years ago, I will be able to feel I have completed the
cycle by finding myself at the head of the March of the Living,"
Eitan told the mass-selling Yediot Aharonot on the eve of his
trip to Poland.


As head of operations in Israel's Mossad spy agency, Eitan both
organised and participated in the May 1960 capture of Eichmann in
Buenos Aires.


Eichmann, considered to be one of the main architects of the
Nazis' "final solution," recommended improvements to the gas
ovens used for mass murder in concentration camps where six
million Jews were killed during World War II.


Between 1940 and 1945, around 1.1 million people, the vast
majority of them Jews, died in the Auschwitz-Birkenau death camp
alone.


After Nazi Germany was defeated by the Allies, Eichmann fled to
Argentina where he was tracked down and kidnapped by the Israeli
secret services.


He was sentenced to death in 1961 after a trial in Jerusalem and
executed by hanging the following year.


Israel begins marking its annual Holocaust Remembrance Day at
sunset on Sunday.

