

The Vatican's envoy to Israel will attend the annual Holocaust
remembrance ceremony in Jerusalem after earlier indicating he
would not do so, the Yad Vashem memorial centre said on Sunday.


"The Vatican representative, Monsignor Antonio Franco, has told
us he will be present at Sunday evening's opening ceremony for
the Holocaust day of remembrance, and we welcome this," Yad
Vashem spokeswoman Estee Yaari told AFP.


On Thursday the papal nuncio in Israel said he would not attend
the ceremony because of its negative portrayal of the wartime
pope in a caption to a photograph.


"It hurts to go to Yad Vashem and see how Pius XII is presented
there," Franco told the Italian bishops' news agency SIR. "This
photo offends the entire Catholic Church," he said.


The caption accompanying the photo says the reaction of Pope Pius
XII "to the murder of the Jews during the Holocaust is a matter
of controversy," and that "his silence and the absence of
guidelines obliged churchmen throughout Europe to decide on their
own how to react."


About six million Jews were killed by the Nazis during World War
II.


Yad Vashem said it was "shocked and disappointed" that the
Vatican's ambassador would not be at the remembrance ceremony,
which is usually attended by officials and foreign ambassadors to
Israel.


It said in a statement that "the Holocaust museum presents the
historical truth on Pope Pius XII as is known to scholars today."


"Yad Vashem told the Vatican's representative in Israel that it
was willing to continue examining the issue, and noted that if
granted access it would gladly study the Vatican's archives from
the era of Pope Pius XII's service, to possibly learn new and
different information than what is known today."


Yad Vashem director Avner Shalev reiterated this offer in a
letter to the Vatican's ambassador on Sunday.

