

World Bank president Paul Wolfowitz said Sunday "I intend to
continue" the global development lender's work on combatting
poverty despite being engulfed in a pay scandal.


"This is important work and I intend to continue it," he told a
news conference after talks among World Bank ministers who
expressed their "great concern" over the scandal.


"We intend to abide by a high standard of internal governance
here at the bank," Wolfowitz said, adding: "It's a serious
issue."


Referring to the ministers' statement, he said: "I think it
speaks for all of us on our desire for the board to look into the
matter and to conclude its work. We'll let them complete their
work.


"I'm not going to preempt what they're doing by getting into
discussion of it here."


The bank's board of executive directors has revealed that
Wolfowitz personally ordered a pay package worth nearly 200,000
dollars and guaranteed promotions for his bank employee
girlfriend, Shaha Riza.


The board of 24 executive directors, dominated by the United
States, Japan and European powers, is reviewing what steps it
should take next.


Battle lines are drawn between European governments, which long
have been suspicious of the former US deputy defense secretary,
and a camp of Wolfowitz backers that includes the United States,
Japan and some African countries.


Wolfowitz said the World Bank was at a critical juncture in its
work, with Africa "potentially at a historic turning point" for
the better after falling behind the rest of the world economy in
recent decades.

