

A second son of the former Bangladesh prime minister Khaleda Zia
was arrested late Sunday as part of the military-backed
government's nationwide anti-graft crackdown, police said.


Military-led security forces arrested Zia's younger son Arafat
Rahman Coco at her house in the capital Dhaka, a senior police
officer said, speaking on condition of anonymity.


The arrest came just a month after Zia's influential eldest son,
Tareque Rahman, was arrested by the security forces on suspicion
of extortion.


While Tareque has been groomed as his mother's political
successor, Arafat has maintained a low profile. He owns several
companies, ferries and was a patron of the country's cricket
board.


The military-backed government has thus far arrested more than 50
top politicians since launching its anti-graft drive in February.


A month before, the government took power after the country's
president declared a state of emergency and cancelled polls
scheduled for January 22 following months of political turmoil.


The new government vowed to clean up politics and carry out
sweeping reforms before announcing a new date for elections. Last
week the head of the government pledged that the polls would be
held before the end of 2008.


Zia was placed under virtual house arrest last week.


Her main political rival Sheikh Hasina Wajed, who leads the main
opposition Awami League party, has been charged with extortion
and the murder of four political activists last October.


Police said Hasina, now vacationing in the United States, would
face arrest when she returns home.


Hasina, also a former premier, rejected the charges as false and
said she would face them in court upon her return home.


Local newspapers have reported that the military-backed
government would force Zia and Hasina into exile in a bid to
bring massive changes in the country's political order.

