

The BBC and Britain's Foreign Office told AFP they were urgently
investigating reports Sunday that kidnapped BBC Gaza
correspondent Alan Johnston had been executed.


The journalist was snatched at gunpoint last month, triggering
protests and campaigns for his freedom.


"We've heard of those reports but we don't have any independent
verification of them at the moment," a BBC spokeswoman said.


"Obviously, we are deeply concerned about what we're hearing. We
are obviously making urgent inquiries about this because it's of
great concern to us to hear those sort of rumours.


"No group has claimed responsibility, even to say that he was
abducted, so we've never had confirmation that he was abducted.
Obviously, we have to assume that he has disappeared, but there
has not been any direct or indirect link by the BBC with any
group."


A Foreign Office spokeswoman said: "We are aware of the report
and are urgently looking into it."


There has been no word on the fate of Johnston, 44, since he was
forced from his car at gunpoint as he drove home from work in
Gaza City on March 12.


It is the longest time a Westerner has been held in the volatile
territory.


Johnston, who had previously reported for the BBC from
Afghanistan and Uzbekistan, became the latest of around 20
foreigners to have been seized in Gaza over the past year.


He has reported from Gaza for three years and was snatched three
weeks before his posting there was due to end.


To mark a month since Johnston was snatched, the BBC took part in
a "day of action" Thursday to highlight the plight of their
reporter, one of the few Western correspondents to be based
permanently in the lawless coastal strip.

