

German Chancellor Angela Merkel on Sunday congratulated Pope
Benedict XVI on his 80th birthday which the pontiff and pilgrims
were celebrating with a mass in Rome's St Peter's Square.


"Your holiness, I warmly congratulate you," Merkel said in a
letter to the German-born pope, adding that he has for decades
been a beacon to Catholics.


"Your radiant strength as a theologian, the depth of your faith
and personal conviction has for decades been felt in the Roman
Catholic Church and in society," she wrote.


Merkel, a Protestant, said she often thought of her "enriching"
personal meetings with the pope in recent years.


"The ideas you have expressed about my work have been an
encouragement," she said.


The pope was born Joseph Ratzinger in the Bavarian town of Marktl
am Inn on April 16, 1927 and turns 80 on Monday.


Thursday marks two years since he was elected to succeed Pope
John Paul II as leader of the world's one billion Catholics on
April 19, 2005.


He was also celebrating this milestone on Sunday.


In Berlin, several hundred people celebrated the pope's birthday
at a special mass in the capital's 18th-century Cathedral of St
Hedwig.


It was led by the archbishop of Cologne, Cardinal Joachim
Meisner, who praised the pope as practising his faith in a way
that was not only proper but also beautiful.


"His words are music to our ears and hearts," Meisner said.


Merkel and several ambassadors to Germany were among those who
attended the mass where the choir and orchestra of Berlin's
Humboldt University performed a new work by composer Wolfgang
Seifen dedicated to the pope.


In Marktl am Inn, the 262-year-old house where the pope was born
was opened to the public for the first time on Sunday. Visitors
could look at an exhibition of photographs tracing his life and
work.


The village near the Austrian border has become a place of
pilgrimage since he became pontiff, attracting some 250,000
visitors.

