

Afghan security forces supported by NATO-led troops killed at
least 16 militants, 10 of them in an eastern  district where an
Arab fighter also died, officials said Sunday.


Fighting erupted in the Barmal district of eastern Paktika
province bordering Pakistan late Saturday when Afghan security
forces and NATO troops raided a rebel hideout, provincial
governor Mohammad Akram Ikhpolwak said.


"According to assessments by troops from the battlefield, 10
Taliban were killed and 15 others were injured," Ikhpolwak told
AFP.


"Most of the casualties were observed by our troops," he said,
adding Afghan and NATO troops suffered no casualties.


The dead included an Arab whose body was recovered after the
fighting, he said. The governor suspected the Arab could be from
Osama bin Laden's Al-Qaeda network. Barmal is one of the areas
worst hit by violence in the province.


The troops also arrested a Pakistani national militant, the
governor said, but gave no details.


In another incident, Afghan and US-led troops killed six Taliban
fighters in Sangin district of southern Helmand province on
Saturday. The US military said some 1,000 international and
Afghan troops took control of Sangin about two weeks ago.


The fighting in Sangin began when rebels using mortars and
machine-guns attacked the combined force, the US military said in
a statement.


"Six Taliban fighters were killed, and there were no Afghan
civilian injuries reported," the statement said.


The Taliban, ousted from power by a US-led military offensive at
the end of 2001, are waging a guerrilla-like insurgency mainly in
southern and eastern Afghanistan.


A 37,000-strong NATO-led International Security Assistance Force
(ISAF) is deployed in Afghanistan to curb the insurgency which
has claimed thousands of lives, including civilians.

