

Spain's security services are monitoring more than 200 suspected
Islamist radicals following Al-Qaeda's threats against the
country, a Spanish daily reported Sunday.


"The security forces have more than 200 radical Islamist
'objectives' under surveillance at the moment," said the
conservative ABC newspaper, citing sources working in the anti-
terrorism field.


"We are talking about people who, in the short- or medium-term
could join terrorist cells or take part in support activities,
financing, proselytism, or both," said the daily.


The surveillance, which has included phone taps and the tailing
of individuals, has been directed in particular toward people
from north Africa, the Sahel region and some members of the
Pakistani community, said the paper.


Wednesday's attacks in Algiers, which killed 33 people and
wounded more than 200, were claimed by Al-Qaeda's branch in north
Africa.


A statement posted on a website that often carries Al-Qaeda
messages claimed responsibility for the bombings and issued a
direct warning to Spain.


"We will not be in peace until we have liberated all the land of
Islam from crusaders, apostates and agents, and we have retaken
Al Andalus (including southern Spain) and our violated Al-Quds
(Jerusalem)," said the statement.


It was signed by the "Al-Qaeda Movement in Islamic Countries of
the Maghreb".


The Spanish authorities have warned against alarmism and
maintained their alert level at two on a scale of three. The top
level of alert is reserved for an immediate and specific threat.

