

The group that on Sunday said it had killed British BBC
correspondent Alan Johnston a month after his kidnapping in the
Gaza Strip was previously virtually unknown in the unruly
territory.


The Kataeb al-Jihad al-Tawheed (The Brigades of Holy War and
Unity) said in a statement sent to news organisations in Gaza
that it had "executed" the 44-year- old journalist to send a
message to the Palestinian authorities.


The claim could not be verified and Palestinian and Western
security sources said there is no independent proof that this is
true.


The group claiming to have killed Johnston -- one of the few
Western reporters to have been permanently based in Gaza -- has
the same name as one initially formed by Al-Qaeda in Iraq former
chief Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, who was killed last year. It is not
known whether they are connected.


On March 3, it claimed responsibility for bomb attacks on
Internet cafes in Gaza that did not result in casualties.


No kidnapped Westerner has yet been confirmed killed after being
kidnapped in the increasingly lawless Palestinian territory.


The group said it would send a video of Johnston's execution to
media outlets, and blamed the reported killing on the Palestinian
authorities and the British government.


"The whole world has mobilised for this journalist, while no-one
has moved a single finger to come to the help of the thousands of
our prisoners everywhere," its statement said.


"Our goal was to send a clear message, but we were surprised by
the position of the government to change reality and to present
this in an incorrect manner, which has pushed us to reluctantly
kill the journalist so that they get the message as quickly as
possible."


A group named Kataeb al-Jihad al-Tawheed has also been linked to
a series of deadly bombings in Egypt's Sinai peninsula since 2004
that killed more than 130 people in the popular resorts of Taba,
Sharm el-Sheikh and Dahab.

