

The foreign ministers of Jordan and Israel met in Amman on Sunday
for talks on ways to push forward the Israeli-Palestinian peace
process, the official Petra news agency said.


Jordanian Foreign Minister Abdel Ilah Khatib discussed with his
Israeli counterpart Tzipi Livni, "bilateral issues and ways to
advance the peace process as well as the aspirations of the
people of the region regarding peace and security," the report
said.


The two ministers also discussed ways that peace talks between
the Israelis and Palestinians can be restarted, especially in the
light of a meeting earlier Sunday in Jerusalem between Israeli
Prime Minister Ehud Olmert and Palestinian president Mahmud
Abbas.


At the meeting, Olmert and Abbas discussed "mainly the diplomatic
horizon" without delving into core issues of negotiations, a
senior Israeli government official told AFP.


Khatib, according to Petra, stressed during his meeting with
Livni the importance of negotiations to secure a just system and
to "accord the Palestinian people their right to self-
determination and the establishment of an independent state."


According to him, the resolution of the Palestinian issue is
essential for peace and security in the region.


The minister reaffirmed Jordan's support for efforts by the
Palestinian Authority "to secure the end to all restrictions
which are causing the Palestinian people to suffer so that the
Palestinian economy can be rebuilt."


Sunday's discussions came ahead of a meeting on Thursday between
Jordan's King Abdullah II and Israeli parliament speaker Dalia
Yitzik.


Abdullah is also due to meet Palestinian and US peace activists
amid efforts to relaunch Palestinian-Israeli negotiations.


The visits are part of efforts by Jordan to move forward the
peace process and raise support for an Arab peace initiative
adopted by Arab leaders at a summit in Saudi Arabia at the end of
March.

