

US House Speaker Nancy Pelosi would not be welcome to visit Iran
given the current state of relations between Tehran and
Washington, a top Iranian lawmaker said on Sunday.


"In the light of the stance of the US government against Iran,
there is no reason for one of its officials travelling to Iran
and (us) talking to America," Alaeddin Borujerdi told the state
IRNA news agency.


"An official's visit makes no sense at a time when a country
(United States) has attacked an Iranian mission, kidnapped and
detained its diplomats," said Borujerdi, who heads the
parliament's national security commission.


He was referring to five men seized by US forces at Iran's
liaison office in the Iraqi city of Arbil in January.


Pelosi's office said on Wednesday she had no intention of
visiting Iran in the wake of her controversial visit to Iran's
ally Syria after a fellow US lawmaker signalled she might be
interested in doing so.


Several Iranian MPs have made statements in favour and against
such a visit in recent days, after the comments by House Foreign
Affairs Committee Chairman Tom Lantos who accompanied Pelosi to
Damascus.


Iran's foreign ministry said on Sunday it would examine a request
for a visit to the Islamic republic by Pelosi if Tehran received
such an approach.


"If there is a request we will examine it," foreign ministry
spokesman Mohammad Ali Hosseini said, responding to how Iran
would react if Pelosi asked for talks with Iranian officials.


Tehran and Washington have had no diplomatic ties since radical
revolutionary students raided the US embassy in Iran in 1979 and
held staff hostage for 444 days.


The US is spearheading an international campaign over Iran's
nuclear programme, which it alleges is cover for weapons
development. Tehran denies the charges, saying its nuclear
programme is purely for peaceful purposes.

