

Africa's last absolute monarch, Swaziland's King Mswati III, has
secretly married his 13th wife, who he chose in 2005 amid outrage
over her age, a newspaper reported Sunday.


Phindile Nkambule, now 19-years-old, was attending high school in
the capital Mbabane before she dropped out in 2005 to assume
royal duties.


Once chosen by the king, the bride-to-be is accorded the status
and benefits of a wife, including being given a BMW X5.


The king of the impoverished, landlocked southern African kingdom
has often attracted criticism for the extravagant life he and his
wives lead while seventy percent of the 1.1 million citizens live
on less than one dollar a day.


Mswati maintains a fleet of luxury cars, and spends millions
accommodating all his wives in luxury mansions.


The deeply traditional country has the highest rate of HIV in the
world -- with more than 40 percent of adults infected -- and the
king's practice of taking multiple wives has been criticised as
infringing women's rights and setting a bad example in the
polygamous country.


A member of the royal family confirmed to AFP that the wedding
had taken place in the early hours of Saturday morning.


But the governor of Ludzidzini Royal Residence Jim Gama said: "I
am not aware that there is a new Inkhosikati. Why is it news that
there is a new wife? Who cares if you marry another wife?"


Mswati came under fire when he married his 11th wife, 18-year-old
Zena Mahlangu, and her mother claimed she had been taken against
her will and took the matter to court.


The king threatened the judges presiding over the matter if they
did not drop the case and her mother later withdrew the case.


On Thursday this week the 39-year-old king is spending more than
15 million Emalangeni (two million US dollars) on his birthday
bash, saying it is a unifying symbol for the Swazi nation and
would give Swazis a chance to celebrate with their king.

