

A Radio Free Europe journalist has been unable to leave Iran
since arriving for a visit in January because authorities in the
country have confiscated her passport, the station said Sunday.


Parnaz Azima holds Iranian and American citizenship. She arrived
in Tehran on January 25 to visit a sick family member and her
Iranian passport was taken at the aiport, the station said in a
statement.


Azima has since made several unsucessful requests for its return.
She also refused an offer to collaborate with Iranian
intelligence services, the statement said.


"I call on the Iranian authorities to return Ms. Azima's passport
and to allow her to leave Iran without further delay," Radio Free
Europe/Radio Liberty head Jeffrey Gedmin said.


According to the station, a similar situation occurred last year,
when Azima's Iranian passport was seized and held for several
weeks before being returned to her.


Azima has been a journalist with Radio Farda, RFE/RL's Persian
language service, since 1998 and is based in Prague.


The station has occasionally complained of interference with its
broadcast by Iranian authorities, who have accused it of being a
tool of the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency.


RFE/RL is a non-profit station founded a half decade ago amid the
Cold War. In 1995, the station moved its operations from Munich
to Prague.


In recent years, the station has reduced the number of programs
targeted toward central Europe in order to concentrate on Iraq,
Iran and Afghanistan.


French academic Stephane Dudoignon returned home from Iran on
Friday after being prevented from leaving Iran for ten weeks.


Dudoignon, 45, had his passport confiscated after photographing a
Shiite Muslim religious ceremony in the volatile province of
Sistan-Baluchestan.


But said he had not been mistreated during his time there. After
being briefly detained and questioned he had been put under a
form of limited house arrest.

