

The political bloc of firebrand Shiite cleric Moqtada al-Sadr
will withdraw from the embattled Iraqi government on Monday, a
lawmaker from the group told AFP on Sunday.


"We will announce our withdrawal from the government tomorrow,"
MP Saleh Hassan Issa al-Igaili said, adding that the group will
however continue to participate in the parliament.


The Sadr group has six cabinet ministers in Prime Minister Nuri
al-Maliki's government and 32 lawmakers in the 275-member
parliament.


Igaili said the decision to pull out of the government was taken
to press its demand for a timetable for US-led troops to withdraw
from Iraq.


Sadr, a known anti-American cleric, has strongly opposed the US
presence in the country since the toppling of Saddam Hussein's
regime four years ago.


On Wednesday, the group had threatened to pull out of the
government after Maliki opposed laying down such a timetable.


Igaili said the current government has also failed to provide
basic services and amenities to the people of Iraq.


The group has opposed an ongoing Iraqi and US security plan in
Baghdad, which officials say has seen Sadr's Mahdi Army militia
melt away from the streets of the capital to avoid capture.


Maliki last week during a trip of Tokyo rejected demands by the
US Congress for a timetable to pull out American troops, saying
any withdrawal should be based on the situation on the ground.


On April 9 -- the fourth anniversary of the fall of Saddam's
regime -- the Sadr group staged a huge demonstration to oppose
the US presence in Iraq which saw tens of thousands of people
join the rally in the city of Najaf.


Sadr's political group last boycotted the Iraqi government for
two months from November 29 until late January in protest at a
meeting between the beleaguered Maliki and US President George W.
Bush in Jordan.

