

Renault team boss Flavio Briatore has admitted a lot of hard work
awaits the struggling team in the next four weeks ahead of the
Spanish Grand Prix in Barcelona.


The reigning constructors champions endured another poor show at
the Bahrain Grand Prix where Italian Giancarlo Fisichella claimed
the teams only point when finishing in eighth position on Sunday.


Fisichella's rookie teammate, Finn Heikki Kovalainen finished
ninth leaving the French team with just nine points from the
opening three races - 34 points behind constructor leaders
McLaren Mercedes-Benz.


"This is where we are at the moment," said Briatore.


"Fighting for the final points positions. We didn't expect the
situation to change very much in the space of a week, and the
race met those expectations.


"Both drivers did a strong job, but the car doesn't have the
pace. There is a lot of hard work ahead of us to improve the
situation, beginning with the four- week break before the next
race."


Renault's poor showing has been blamed on the loss of double
world drivers champion Spaniard Fernando Alonso and the switch
from Michelin tyres to Bridgestone something Executive director
of engineering at Renault, Pat Symonds pointed too.


"In the race itself, both drivers seemed to struggle with tyre
performance on their longest stints," said Symonds.


"But this does not explain our overall position."


One small consolation for Renault has been the reliability of the
car, which has finished every race this season and Symonds was
complimentary to his drivers and mechanics for their efforts.


"The drivers did as much as they could today, and the mechanics
once again worked hard to prepare reliable cars for them to
maintain our 100percent finishing record. With three teams in
front of us that are clearly quicker, our race is for 7th place
at the moment."

