

Kuwait may abandon plans to build a new oil refinery if a second
round of bidding, expected within weeks, fails to cut high costs,
a top oil executive said on Sunday.


The oil-rich emirate has earmarked 6.3 billion dollars for the
refinery, but international companies have estimated the cost in
their bids at 15 billion dollars, Asad al-Saad, deputy managing
director of the Kuwait National Petroleum Co. (KNPC), said.


KNPC, the national oil refiner, has decided to reopen bidding
with the new tenders now be based on a cost plus profit margin,
which means paying the cost to the foreign companies plus an
agreed profit.


"In case our second round does not succeed, we will go to other
alternatives... thus shelving the refinery project," Saad told
reporters.


He said an alternative under consideration is Integrated
Gasification Combined Cycle (IGCC) technology which produces
electricity by converting liquid crude to gas.


The new 615,000 barrels per day (bpd) refinery was slated to come
on stream in early 2010, and would have raised Kuwait's refining
production to around 1.4 million bpd.


Kuwait currently has three refineries at Al-Ahmadi, Mina Abdullah
and Shuaiba, all in the emirate's oil-rich southern region, with
a combined refining capacity of about 915,000 bpd.


The state-owned KNPC also plans to modernise the first two at an
estimated cost of three billion dollars, with work planned for
completion in early 2011.


Once the new refinery and the upgrades are completed, the KNPC
plans to shut down Shuaiba.


OPEC member Kuwait sits on 10 percent of the world's oil reserves
and currently produces around 2.4 million bpd of crude.

