

Bangladesh were 169-8 after 40 overs in their World Cup Super
Eights match against Ireland at Kensington Oval here on Sunday
chasing 244 to win.


Captain Habibul Bashar was not out 32 while Abdur Razzak was on
11.


Struggling opener Shahriar Nafees was the first man out caught
behind by Niall O'Brien off Boyd Rankin for seven with the total
on 18 in the seventh over.


Aftab Ahmed made 12 before he was caught by O'Brien off Andre
Botha for 12 in the 11th over with the score on 45 with Saqibul
Hasan unluckily run out backing up when he had just three to his
name and with 48 on the board.


Tamim Iqbal was the fourth man out bowled by Ireland captain
Trent Johnston for 29 with the score on 93 at the end of the 20th
over.


The dangerous Mohammad Ashraful was the fifth man out caught by
Dave Langford- Smith off Rankin for 35 to leave his team on 102
in the 22nd over.


Mushfiqur Rahim (16), Mashrafe Mortaza (0) and Mohammad Rafique
(2) all fell in quick succession as Ireland sensed a victory to
add to their famous win over Pakistan in the first round.


Earlier, opener William Porterfield hit a solid 85 to help
Ireland post a healthy 243-7.


Ireland, who are bidding to avoid last place after losing four
second round matches, saw Porterfield give them a confident start
of 92 with Jeremy Bray (31) after skipper Trent Johnston won the
toss and decided to bat.


Kevin O'Brien, who made 48 off just 44 balls with two sixes and
as many fours, took Ireland past the 200-mark and gave the
innings much-needed impetus during a 39-run fifth wicket stand
with Johnston who made 30.

