

A journalist for Croatia's main newspaper said Sunday he received
death threats from the brother of detained war crimes suspect
general Ante Gotovina.


Ivan Zvonimir Cicak, who writes for the Jutarnji List newspaper,
said in a national television programme he had reported the
incident to the police.


Cicak had said in an editorial published the day before the
telephone call that Gotovina, who has been charged with war
crimes and crimes against humanity, was accusing others for the
alleged crimes, including Croatia's former justice minister
Miroslav Separovic and former interior minister Ivan Jarnjak.


In his telephone call the former general's brother, Boris
Gotovina, also branded him as an "informer", said Cicak.


Gotovina and his co-accused, generals Ivan Cermak and Mladen
Markac, have been charged by the United Nation's International
Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) in The Hague.
Their trial is to start on May 7.


The alleged offences, which include murder, persecution and
deportation, occurred during a lightning military operation that
recaptured the Serb-held Krajina region of Croatia in 1995.


Between 150,000 and 200,000 Serbs fled or were forced to flee to
Bosnia and Serbia during the operation, codenamed Storm. More
than 150 Serb civilians died during the offensive, according to
the court's indictment.


Many Croatians see Gotovina as a national hero who helped gain
the country's independence at the end of the wars that broke up
Yugoslavia.


His arrest in Spain in 2005, after four years on the run, sparked
popular protests in Croatia.

