

Algeria's president visited suicide blast victims amid tight
security on Sunday as authorities identified all three Al-Qaeda-
linked suicide bombers who killed dozens of people here last
week.


President Abdelaziz Bouteflika made his first public appearance
since the Wednesday car bomb attacks, which have been claimed by
a group believed to be linked to Al-Qaeda. He inaugurated a
series of infrastructure projects and visted eight victims,
including a child, at a hospital.


Bouteflika made no statement after leaving the hospital and only
a small group of Algerian journalists were allowed to accompany
him on the visit.


The two suicide bomb attacks killed 30 people and injured some
330. Officials had earlier put the number of dead at 33 and said
there had been more than 220 injuries, but revised the figures on
Sunday.


The car bombings coincided with a set of suicide attacks in
neighbouring Morocco which officials have said were the work of
local Islamists.


The Algerian interior minister announced that authorities had
identified the remaining two bombers, though he did not provide
details. The third bomber, a 28 -year-old from a poor Algiers
suburb, had been named earlier in the week.


"The battle against terrorism has not stopped," Minister
Noureddine Zerhouni said, adding that the country must "maintain
vigilance as well as pressure on terrorist groups".


One of Wednesday's blasts was outside the government
headquarters, near the central post office, and the other
targeted a police station on the main road to the Algiers
airport.


The bombings were claimed by Al-Qaeda's branch in North Africa,
formerly known as the Salafist Group for Preaching and Combat
(GSPC), which published photographs of what it said were the
three bombers on the Internet.


The Algerian attacks came a day after three suicide bombers blew
themselves up and a fourth was killed by police in the Moroccan
city of Casablanca.


On Saturday, two more suicide attacks occurred in Casablanca near
the US consulate building. There were no other fatalities, though
one woman was said to have been injured.


Moroccan security forces on Sunday kept up their hunt for suicide
bombers following the Casablanca attacks, while the US consulate
in the port city warned of further attacks, saying Americans
should stay indoors.


The US embassy in Algiers came under heavy criticism from
newspapers for issuing a similar warning the day before of
possible new attacks in the Algerian capital.


On Sunday, the embassy's charge d'affaires was summoned to the
Algerian foreign ministry for a meeting on the issue.


A government statement said authorities in the country wanted to
stress "the principal of non-interference in its internal
affairs" with US officials. It called the US warning
"unacceptable".


US officials said militants might target areas including the
Algiers Central Post Office and Algiers state television on
Saturday. No attacks occurred.


"The embassy succeeded in creating panic among Algerians," daily
Al Watan wrote.


Legislative elections are scheduled for May 17 in Algeria, but a
national reconciliation policy that has allowed amnesty for
terrorists who turned themselves in appeared to continue to have
widespread support.


Politicians from various parties said they backed the policy,
which was approved in a 2005 referendum and led to the freeing of
some 2,000 militants, as well as pardons for armed groups that
handed in their weapons.


In the 1990s, Algeria was torn apart by violence as a result of a
vicious civil conflit between Islamic militants and the military.
The violence began after authorities annulled an election won by
an Islamist group.


Violence in Algeria has greatly decreased in recent years.

