

Double world drivers champion Fernando Alonso admitted he was
disappointed at not achieving his main aspiration of finishing on
the podium at the Bahrain Grand Prix on Sunday.


The 25-year-old Spaniard finished in fifth as he lost his
outright lead in the championship which he now shares with his
rookie teammate Briton Lewis Hamilton and Ferrari's Finnish
driver Kimi Raikkonen.


"After this race I'm left with a bit of a bitter taste for not
having been able to climb onto the podium which was the main
target," Alonso told Spanish television after the race in Sakhir.


The former Renault driver finished 14 seconds behind eventual
winner Brazilian Felipe Massa for Ferrari.


Alonso was also the victim of a classy overtaking move by German
BMW-Sauber driver Nick Heidfeld and admitted he had problems with
car during the race.


"I couldn't do more than what I did, and in the end it's four
points and we finished the race and as I said I tried to do the
best I could," he added.


"I wasn't very comfortable with the car, and in the end I did the
best I could."


Alonso's fifth place and the historic display by his young
inexperienced teammate Hamilton, who claimed second and became
the first driver in the sport to earn three podium's in his first
three races, maintained McLaren's lead in the constructors
championship from rivals Ferrari.


"After these first three races I didn't think I would be sharing
the lead in the championship with the Ferraris when we thought
they were on another planet," added Alonso.


"So we'll arrive in Barcelona in good conditions and leading the
championship."

