

Afghanistan's government on Sunday promised to end all hostage
deals with the Taliban after two Afghan kidnap victims were
executed in an agreement to free an Italian journalist.


Foreign Minister Rangeen Dadfar Spanta said kidnapping risked
becoming an "industry" for the rebels, but promised to use all
"legitimate and possible" means to win the release of two French
aid workers.


"What is important in this regard is we must try to prevent
kidnapping becoming an industry for terrorists against the
legitimate government of Afghanistan," Spanta told a press
conference.


The government last month made a deal under which five Taliban
prisoners, including high-ranking rebel commanders, were
exchanged for Italian journalist Daniele Mastrogiacomo, who was
abducted in early March.


But the rebels beheaded translator Ajmal Naqshbandi after the
government refused to free two more Taliban officials in
government jails. The group's driver was also killed.


The incident was condemned as "barbaric" by the United States and
caused a storm of criticism both in Afghanistan and Italy, whose
foreign minister went before parliament to defend the
government's handling of the situations.


"If you once, twice or for a third time comply with terrorists'
demands, it becomes an industrial sector like other industries.
It wouldn't have an end," Spanta said.


His comments came after French President Jacques Chirac
telephoned Afghan leader Hamid Karzai to demand his support for
efforts to free the French workers of Terre d'Enfance (A World
for Our Children).


No rebel demand has been made for the two, kidnapped along with
three Afghan colleagues in the southwestern province of Nimroz on
April 3, but there are mounting concerns.


A purported Taliban spokesman, Yousuf Ahmadi said Sunday the
rebels had sent a "proposal" to what he called Taliban's
leadership council about the French hostages and were awaiting
orders from them.


"We've made a proposal over the French hostages and submitted it
to the leadership council. The leaders will decide the fate of
the hostages," Ahmadi told AFP in a telephone call from an
unknown location.


Video footage of the hostages pleading for their lives was
broadcast by a Canadian and an Arabic television channel on
Friday.


"The Islamic republic of Afghanistan within lawful and legitimate
limits, I insist within legitimate means, will do its utmost to
free the hostages," Spanta said.


"But we shouldn't comply with tribute-taking culture," he added.


The Islamist Taliban, which has led a bloody insurgency since
being toppled in 2001, has abducted nearly a dozen people in the
past month.


Analysts said the Italian deal -- described by Karzai as a one-
off -- had opened the floodgates for further abductions.

