

Opener William Porterfield hit a solid 85 to help Ireland post a
healthy 243-7 against Bangladesh in their World Cup Super Eights
match at Kensington Oval here Sunday.


Irealnd, who are bidding to avoid last place after losing four
second round matches, saw Porterfield give them a confident start
of 92 with Jeremy Bray (31) after skipper Trent Johnston won the
toss and decided to bat.


Kevin O'Brien, who made 48 off just 44 balls with two sixes and
as many fours, took Ireland past the 200-mark and gave the
innings much-needed impetus during a 39-run fifth wicket stand
with Johnston who made 30.


O'Brien, in the company of Johnston, smashed the Bangladesh
bowlers for 77 runs in the last ten overs, with 57 runs coming in
the last five.


He helped Porterfield add a quickfire 48 for the fourth wicket
before he was finally run out in the 48th over.


Porterfield, who has two hundreds to his credit in 15 one-day
internationals, looked set for another three-figure mark before
he paddle-swept paceman Mashrafe Mortaza to short fine-leg for
Mohammad Rafique to take a simple catch.


He hit three boundaries during his steady 136-ball knock.


Bangladesh missed left-arm paceman Syed Rasel who sprained his
ankle in a warm- up session, minutes before the start. Shahadat
Hossain took his place but was unimpresive in his nine overs,
conceding 51 runs.


Porterfield and Bray negotiated Bangladesh's left-arm spin trio
well before Saqibul Hasan brilliantly ran out Bray, beating the
batsman at the striker's end.


Eoin Morgan (five) also fell to a run out before Niall O'Brien
(10) miscued a reverse sweep and was caught off Hasan to leave
Ireland at 128-3.


Kevin O'Brien used his feet to the spinners, hitting Abdur Razzak
for a towering six at long-on to nullify the Bangladesh's
spinners who managed just one wicket between them.

