

World Bank governments Sunday said a pay scandal engulfing the
organization's president Paul Wolfowitz was of "great concern,"
and stressed the lender should strive for high ethical standards.


"The current situation is of great concern to all of us," the
bank's ministerial policymakers said in a statement after talks
here.


"We have to ensure that the bank can effectively carry out its
mandate and maintain its credibility and reputation as well as
the motivation of the staff. "We endorsed the board's actions in
looking into this matter and we asked it to continue its work. We
expect the bank to adhere to a high standard of internal
governance."


The bank's board of executive directors has revealed that
Wolfowitz personally ordered a pay package worth nearly 200,000
dollars and guaranteed promotions for his bank employee
girlfriend, Shaha Riza.


Wolfowitz was due to appear before the press shortly, following
the annual spring meeting of the World Bank and International
Monetary Fund's policymaking Development Committee.


The bank's board of 24 executive directors, dominated by the
United States, Japan and European powers, is reviewing what steps
it should take after releasing documents that showed Wolfowitz's
clear involvement in Riza's deal.


Battle lines are drawn between European governments, which long
have been suspicious of the former US deputy defense secretary,
and a camp of Wolfowitz backers that includes the United States,
Japan and some African countries.

