

Red Bull Racing team manager Christian Horner has admitted his
team need to address their reliability problems after an
immensely frustrating Bahrain Grand Prix on Sunday.


British driver David Coulthard had managed to his carve his way
through the grid and was riding in seventh place, after starting
in 21st, when his race was abruptly truncated on lap 37 with a
driveshaft related problem.


Australian Mark Webber joined his teammate back in the pits just
five laps later when he was forced to retire, when also riding in
seventh, with gearbox trouble.


"Frustrating is the only way to describe today's race," said
Horner.


"Driving an aggressive strategy, David was a candidate for driver
of the day.


"He overtook more than ten cars and looked set for a strong
points finish, only for a driveshaft related failure to force his
retirement.


The Red Bull team have so far failed to score a point in this
years championship with veteran Coulthard, 36, yet to finish a
race, although he was happy to take the positives from the Sakhir
race.


"The race car felt good, the strategy was good, and I think it
would have paid off," said the former McLaren Mercedes-Benz
driver.


"We're going through some growing pains at the moment, but we
will get through it and we'll be stronger on the other side,
everyone's working very hard back in the factory."


Horner added: "We need to get on top of these reliability issues
very quickly, as obviously they're unacceptable. However, we can
see that we've continued to make progress and should have had two
cars in the points today."

