

Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero on Sunday
expressed his support for French presidential candidate Segolene
Royal, saying in an interview with AFP that he feels "great
political empathy" with her.


"As is natural, I feel a great political empathy with the
socialist candidate. I like her program and I think her
predisposition to listen is exemplary," he said in written
answers to questions on the French campaign.


"In addition, it seems decisive that a woman is for the first
time in a position to reach the French presidency," added
Zapatero, who has made gender equality a hallmark of his liberal-
minded government that took power in 2004.


"It supposes a very important step ahead to improve the condition
of women in the entire world and it would contribute to an image
of renovation which could be very important for France and for
all of Europe."


Zapatero, who leads his country's socialist party, will
personally lend his support to Royal when he attends a meeting by
the candidate in the southwestern French city of Toulouse
scheduled for Thursday, just three days before the first round of
voting in the French polls.


Right-wing former interior minister Nicolas Sarkozy is leading in
the opinion polls over Royal but is still far from certain of
ultimate victory in the all- important May 6 two-way run-off.


While Royal is most likely to make it through to the two-way run-
off, she is only a few points ahead of centrist Francois Bayrou
whose ascendancy in the race has been the campaign's big
surprise.

