

Indian Foreign Secretary Shivshankar Menon vied in talks here
Tuesday to revive a historic nuclear deal with the United States,
which has been languishing for almost two years.


Menon and US Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs
Nicholas Burns were discussing "the entire gamut of Indo-US
relations, including the civilian nuclear issue," Indian embassy
press attache Rahul Chhabra told AFP.


The US government has expressed frustration over the pace of the
talks to implement the pact, which would give India access to US
nuclear energy technology without requiring the Asian country to
halt its atomic arms program.


The nuclear deal, struck in July 2005, is the centerpiece of
energy-hungry India's new relationship with Washington after
decades of Cold War tensions, as it tries to sustain its stunning
economic expansion.


"We will get this deal done," US State Department spokesman Sean
McCormack said Monday.


But differences persist, chiefly over a clause which says the
United States would withdraw civil nuclear fuel supplies and
equipment if India breaches its unilateral moratorium on nuclear
testing.


Menon, the Indian foreign ministry's top bureaucrat, last week
sought to dispel fears from critics who say the agreement will
hamper the country's nuclear weapons program.


"Whatever we do with the US will not affect our nuclear strategic
program," he said in a report tabled in the Indian parliament on
Thursday.


Menon launched two days of talks here on Monday, meeting first
with Paula Dobriansky, the US under secretary of state for global
affairs and democracy.


The State Department described the talks as "productive," and
said they covered a range of issues from democratic values to
environmental conservation.

