

Shiite militants of Hezbollah put up giant posters of Israel's
embattled leadership at the Lebanese border on Tuesday, taunting
it over the resignation calls resulting from last year's war.


The images of Prime Minister Ehud Olmert and Defence Minister
Amir Peretz were erected on a large hoarding only one kilometre
(just over half a mile) from the Israeli border town of Metulla.


The picture of Peretz was an Israeli press photograph from
February that showed him watching war games at the Lebanese
border through binoculars that still had their black lens caps
on.


"Is Peretz blind or using inadequate equipment?" said the legend.


Israeli newspapers carried similarly mocking captions when they
ran the photograph on February 22, ridiculing the defence
minister, a former trade union boss, for his lack of military
experience.


"The outlook is dark for Peretz," joked top-selling daily Yediot
Aharonot.


The poster of Olmert showed him holding a gravedigger's spade
alongside pictures of an Israeli naval vessel and tanks that were
destroyed by Hezbollah during last summer's conflict.


Hezbollah has been lapping up the political difficulties of the
Israeli leadership in the face of a damning interim report from a
government commission of inquiry released on Monday into Israel's
failings in the July-August war.


The report was an "admission of Israel's historic defeat in the
face of the fighters of Hezbollah", the militant group's south
Lebanon chief Nabil Qaouk told reporters.


The report accused Olmert of "serious failure in exercising
judgement, responsibility and prudence," of acting "hastily" and
personally contributing to "over-ambitious" and unfeasible war
aims.


A first minister resigned from Olmert's governing coalition on
Tuesday calling on the premier and Peretz to follow suit.

