

Britain's Prince Charles compared the challenge of tackling
climate change to the Allies' struggle in World War II during a
speech to business leaders Tuesday.


Addressing representatives from firms including Barclays Bank,
British Airways and Rolls-Royce at Saint James's Palace in
London, Charles said that "we need to act very rapidly indeed" to
avert environmental disaster.


"We can do it, just think what they did in the last war. Things
that seemed impossible were achieved almost overnight," the heir
to the throne added.


Charles has long harboured a passionate interest in green issues
-- he has described climate change as "the biggest threat to
mankind" while facing criticism that his own lifestyle does not
match his rhetoric.


He announced in December last year that he wanted to reduce the
impact of overseas royal visits on the environment by replacing
carbon-heavy private planes and helicopters with scheduled
flights and trains "where appropriate."


But he raised eyebrows among figures including Britain's
Environment Secretary, David Miliband, when he flew to the United
States to pick up an environmental award.


Charles said Tuesday that business leaders could pay a key role
in tackling ecological issues, adding: "It cannot be business as
usual."


"When I was serving in the Royal Navy...mayday, mayday, mayday
was the distress call used in cases of emergency. It still is,
and this is an emergency we face," he added, apparently punning
on the date of his address.

