

Around 200,000 civil servants went on strike across Britain
Tuesday in a row over jobs and pay, union leaders said, in a
fresh blow to the Labour government ahead of key regional and
local elections.


The Public and Commercial Services (PCS) Union said the May Day
walkout had hit 200 government departments and agencies,
affecting court hearings as well as tax and employment services.


The 24-hour stoppage comes just two days before elections to some
municipal councils in England and to all of those in Scotland.
Elections will also be held to the Scottish Parliament in
Edinburgh and the Welsh Assembly in Cardiff.


Prime Minister Tony Blair's governing party is expected to face a
drubbing according to polls.


The walk-out signalled an escalation of a long-running dispute
over government plans to slash 100,000 civil service jobs,
privatise services and maintain pay rises below the rate of
inflation.


"This massive show of support clearly demonstrates how angry and
frustrated the government's own workforce are over below-
inflation pay offers and crude job cuts that are damaging the
services they take great pride in providing," said PCS general
secretary Mark Serwotka.


"The government and civil service management have point blank
refused our offer to resolve this dispute through negotiation.


"This belligerent stance has only provoked more confrontation and
a second one- day civil service-wide strike," he added.


The first stoppage took place on January 31.


A government spokesman said Tuesday there was "absolutely no
need" for such strikes.


"At a time when the government is increasing investment in public
services, no organisation, including the civil service, can be
immune from the need for change, both to ensure value for money
and to adapt to new technology.


"There is an established process through which unions can raise
any issues of concern they have with these changes without going
on strike," the spokesman added.

