

Key shareholders in Dutch bank ABN Amro called on Tuesday for the
group's chairman to be fired for his role in the titanic bidding
war for the company.


The hedge fund TCI made the demand in a letter to ABN Amro's
supervisory board in which it criticises the chairman Rijkman
Groenink for coming down on the side of Barclays, one of two
suitors currently eyeing what would be the biggest banking
acquisition in history.


"We call on the supervisory board to immediately end Mr
Groenink's nomination as chairman of the executive committee,"
the letter said.


"We also call on the supervisory board to take complete control
of the sale process to respond to the clear wishes of
shareholders," it said.


A consortium led by the Royal Bank of Scotland is keen to buy the
Dutch lender, but ABN management has accepted the rival offer
from Barclays of Britain and had been holding off the consortium
despite pressure from shareholders.


The bidding group of Royal Bank of Scotland, Spain's Banco
Santander and Dutch- Belgian group Fortis has offered 72 billion
euros (98.4 billion dollars) for ABN Amro, a banking record that
exceeds the proposal by Barclays.


Key ABN Amro shareholders, including TCI, have been pressing
management to negotiate with the consortium and had even
threatened legal action.


A takeover of ABN Amro would represent the biggest banking sector
acquisition in history, and create Europe's second-biggest bank,
the fifth biggest in the world.

