

US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice will participate in a
meeting with major powers involved in Mideast peace that will
also include Syria at an upcoming summit in Egypt on Iraq, a
State Department spokesman said Tuesday.


There will be "an informal meeting between members of the Quartet
and the Arab delegation that has been designated as the
delegation that's going to be explaining the Arab League
initiative," said State Department spokesman Sean McCormack.


Egypt and Jordan will also participate, McCormack said. "I
believe the Saudis and the Syrians will be there as well," he
said.


At a March summit in Riyadh, Arab leaders revived a five-year-old
peace plan that offers Israel normal relations if it withdraws
from all land seized in the 1967 Middle East war, and allows for
the creation of a Palestinian state and the return of Palestinian
refugees.


The meeting will be held after the planned gathering of
international leaders at the Egyptian Red Sea resort of Sharm el-
Sheikh May 3-4 for a security conference on Iraq.


In 2006 Rice launched an ambitious initiative to revive Israeli-
Palestinian negotiations on a permanent peace accord and the
creation of a Palestinian state -- talks that had been on hold
since the outbreak of a Palestinian rebellion in 2001.


The Quartet groups representatives of the European Union, the
United Nations, the United States and Russia.


Washington accuses the Syrian regime of allowing anti-US
insurgents to cross from Syria into Iraq and of supporting
terrorist groups in Lebanon and in the Palestinian territories.


The US withdrew its ambassador from Damascus after linking Syria
to the February 2005 assassination in Beirut of former Lebanese
prime minister Rafiq Hariri, an outspoken opponent of Syrian
dominance over Lebanon.

