

A former military chief faces questioning at an Indonesian-East
Timor commission this week over his role in violence ahead of the
tiny nation's vote for independence, the commission said Tuesday.


Key figures such as General Wiranto and former East Timorese
police Inspector General Timbul Silaen will be among the 18
people scheduled to testify in front of the commission on
Wednesday.


Silaen and Wiranto, who headed the Indonesian armed forces during
the East Timor violence, are scheduled to testify on the last day
of the four-day hearing, on May 5.


The commission has heard from other figures including former
president B.J. Habibie and Bishop Carlos Ximenes Felipe Belo --
who won the Nobel Peace Prize for efforts related to East Timor
-- at its last hearing in March.


Violence erupted in East Timor in 1999 around a UN-administered
referendum for independence, which the tiny nation chose
following 24 years of occupation by neighbouring Indonesia.


Militia gangs, which the United Nations says were recruited and
directed by Indonesia's military, killed about 1,400 people and
destroyed much of the infrastructure in the former Portuguese
colony.


Indonesia and East Timor formed the 10-member commission in 2005
to establish the truth about the violence. It held its first
hearing in February and plans to invite 70 people to testify by
June.


An Indonesian rights court set up to try military officers and
officials for atrocities in East Timor was widely condemned as a
sham for failing to jail any Indonesians.


The impoverished state held its first presidential vote since
independence on April 9. A run-off vote with two leading
candidates will be held next month.

