

The leader of Nepal's Maoists on Tuesday threatened to push the
nation back into turmoil by launching huge nationwide protests
unless parliament immediately ousts the king and declares a
republic.


"We will organise a third movement in the country from late May
if the interim parliament delays the declaration of a republic,"
Prachanda told a crowd at a May Day celebration in Kathmandu.


Nepal's Maoists and government signed a landmark peace deal late
last year that ended a decade of civil war, a conflict the
Maoists refer to as their "first movement" or "people's war."


Their "second movement" saw bloody street protests that forced
King Gyanendra to relinquish absolute rule prior to the signing
of the peace accord.


"We are starting this protest programme in order to pressure the
political parties and the government to go for a republic,"
Prachanda, whose name means "the fierce one", told a crowd of
about 5,000 people.


The decision about the future of Nepal's embattled monarchy was
supposed to have been decided in a constituent assembly election
scheduled for June, but Nepal's top election official has said
that date was too soon and more time was needed to prepare for
the poll.


The delay has seen the former rebels step up demands for a
republic, even though the king has already been stripped of most
of his powers, including his title of head of state.


"The unity of the eight parties (seven mainstream political
parties and the Maoists) hinged on elections by June, but now
since they are not happening, the basis of unity among the eight
parties has been broken," Prachanda said.


"To build a new foundation among the eight parties, declaring a
republic is the only way," the Maoist leader told the cheering
crowd.


Prachanda said the Maoists had already begun their publicity
campaign in the run-up to planned protests later this month,
adding the group would also start "mobilising the masses" on May
8.


Also Tuesday, a local official said 500 Maoists had attacked and
overrun a police post and abducted 11 police officers in the west
of the country, but downplayed the incident as "minor."


"This was a minor dispute and no one was injured," said local
chief official Narendra Raj Sharma from Banke district, 260
kilometres (160 miles) west of Kathmandu, adding details were
sketchy.


The Maoist activists swarmed the remote post late on Monday,
Sharma said, adding all 11 police officers at the post "were
taken by the Maoists, but all have now returned."


The Maoists who have been granted five ministerial posts in a new
interim government have had their army and weapons confined to
UN-monitored camps, but face accusations that they have not
stopped using violence and intimidation.


"We have shown maximum flexibility and patience in making this
peace process successful, but we will not tolerate it if our
patience is taken as weakness," the former school teacher-turned-
revolutionary Prachanda told the rally.


At least 13,000 people were killed in the bitter civil war
launched by the Maoists in west Nepal in 1996.

