

Human Rights Watch said Tuesday that US retail giant Wal-Mart
violates a global pact on labor rights by interfering with basic
rights to create unions.


A 214-page report by the human rights watchdog said the US retail
giant "aggressively interferes with workers' right to organize"
in violation of the guidelines of the International Labor
Organization and in some cases, US labor laws.


"The tactics range from restricting the dissemination and
discussion of pro- union views to firing key union supporters, in
extreme cases," the report said.


In its own statement, the US retail giant strongly disputed the
conclusions of the report.


"This pro-union report uses incomplete interviews and
unsubstantiated allegations from as much as six or seven years
ago to support a union-backed bill before congress that
eliminates workers' rights to a private ballot vote on
unionization," the company said in a statement.


"Contrary to the allegations in this report, Wal-Mart respects
our associates' right to a free and fair unionization vote
through a private, government supervised process and we remain
committed to compliance with US laws regarding workers' right to
unionize."


Wal-Mart has been a frequent target of labor activists who
highlight the fact that none of its US operations or 1.3 million
employees are unionized.


Human Rights Watch, echoing the comments of some labor groups,
said the absence of unions at Wal-Mart is due to intimidation and
"a comprehensive battery of sophisticated corporate institutions
and practices aimed at frustrating union organizing activity."


Wal Mart said in its statement that employees have repeatedly
rejected organizing efforts and that it offers "competitive
wages, affordable health benefits and real career opportunities."

