

A NATO-led offensive in a restive southern Afghanistan district
killed up to 56 militants, including some Pakistani nationals, on
its first day, an Afghan commander told AFP Tuesday.


"We've killed up to 56 Taliban, including lots of Pakistanis,"
General Moheydin Ghori from the Afghan army told AFP by telephone
from the area.


The bodies of the dead had been left at the site in Helmand
province's Sangin Valley, he said, and a handful of Pakistani
fighters had also been arrested.


The NATO-led International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) had
earlier said the operation, launched Monday, had killed "a
significant number of insurgents."


Some 2,000 NATO-led and Afghan troops are involved in the new
sweep, called "Operation Silicon."


"We're advancing through Sangin very successfully and the Taliban
have been defeated," Ghori said.


The sweep is part of Operation Achilles, a major offensive
launched March 4 in Helmand, a province plagued by violence.
Achilles is the biggest ISAF operation this year, involving some
5,500 soldiers.


Local and international forces are trying to "create security
conditions in the Sangin valley so that meaningful reconstruction
and development can occur," said an ISAF spokesman, who declined
to be identified.


Sangin, some 70 kilometres (40 miles) northeast of the provincial
capital Lashkar Gah, is said to be a Taliban stronghold supported
by drug money.


Helmand produces about 40 percent of Afghanistan's opium, the raw
ingredient required to make heroin. The impoverished, war-torn
country provides some 90 percent of the world's illegal opium
supply.


The Taliban are active across southern and eastern Afghanistan,
even though they were ousted from power more than five years ago
by a US-led invasion.

