

Venezuela is set to quit the World Bank and the International
Monetary Fund in a move announced by firebrand President Hugo
Chavez as Latin American countries become increasingly wary of
the two institutions.


"We are going to withdraw ... and let them pay back what they
took from us," Chavez said in a televised message broadcast on
Monday.


The move is largely symbolic, as Venezuela has repaid all its
debts to the multinational organizations.


Chavez ordered Finance Minister Rodrigo Cabezas to begin
proceedings to withdraw Venezuela from the global lenders.


"I read in the press somewhere that the IMF does not have enough
money to meet its payroll," he explained.


"We are going to withdraw before they go and rob us," he added.


Chavez, a leftist firebrand who has made a habit of demonizing
the US administration, claimed the IMF and the World Bank were
"tools of US imperialism" to exploit the less powerful.


Dominated since their conception by the United States and Europe,
the two financial institutions have come under renewed scrutiny
in South America.


Long subjected to the IMF's austerity policies, Brazil, Argentina
and Uruguay have now reimbursed ahead of time a large part of
their debt, thanks to renewed economic growth.


Argentina has also become a strong supporter of Chavez's plan to
create a regional bank to create an alternative to IMF lending,
which would be funded in part by Venezuela's oil revenues.


In a further reflection of the organizations' diminished clout in
the developing world, Ecuadoran President Rafael Correa, a
leftist ally of Chavez, recently kicked out the World Bank's
representative in the South American country.


The US administration accuses Chavez of being a destabilizing
force in Latin America, and US Secretary of State Condoleezza
Rice claimed last week that he was wrecking Venezuela
"economically and politically".


A former paratrooper elected by a landslide in 1998, Chavez was
given sweeping powers in February to govern by decree for 18
months. He says he is leading Venezuela on a track toward "21st
century socialism."


His critics accuse him of riding roughshod over human rights and
of attempting to muzzle the press, citing his decision not to
renew the broadcasting license of RCTV, a private television
station that is highly critical of his government.


In his address on Tuesday, Chavez also warned Venezuela would
withdraw from the Organization of American States (OAS) should
the Washington-based pan-American organization condemn Caracas
over a complaint issued by RCTV journalists who were beaten by
pro-government activists in 2002.


"Let me make this official," Chavez said. "If they convict us in
the OAS or any of its bodies, Venezuela is pulling out, because
it would make no sense to be there. Why?"


Chavez has drawn condemnation from media rights groups and
protests at home for his decision to effectively close the
popular channel which he accuses of backing a 2002 coup against
him.


He has never forgiven RCTV for running cartoons and modeling
shows during the brief coup that kept him out of power for 47
hours in April 2002.


The private broadcaster and the state-owned Venezolana de
Television (VTV) are the only channels whose signals cover the
entire South American country.

