

Cycling team T-Mobile announced on Tuesday they are going to
investigate allegations made against two of their doctors who, it
was claimed in a report on Monday, injected cyclists with EPO
(erythropoietin).


Former trainer Jeff d'Hont claimed, in Monday's edition of the
German weekly paper Der Spiegel, team doctors Lothar Heinrich and
Andreas Schmid administered injections of the banned blood
booster in 1996.


D'Hont, a former trainer of Telekom - T-Mobile's previous name -
has published a book in Belgium which implicates Heinrich and
Schmid by accusing them of administering EPO injections during
the 1996 Tour de France.


Belgian d'Hont, who worked with the Telekom team from 1992 till
1996, also claimed German cycling great Jan Ullrich took EPO in
1996 and was encouraged by the team's medical staff.


The accusations are particularly serious as Heinrich is the
T-Mobile doctor and the German team dismissed Ullrich in July
2006 for his implication in the Operation Puerto doping scandal,
which is still being investigated.


"We are going to ask the two doctors questions and to discuss
with them to know what is true in what Mr d'Hont has alleged. We
are going to look into the matter and then make a decision," said
Christian Frommert, a T-Mobile spokesman.


"We are also going to try to speak with Mr d'Hont," he added.


T-Mobile was restructured at the end of last season after the
height of the scandal, and began this season promising to
spearhead the fight against doping in the sport.


The team gave the job of monitoring and dope testing its riders
to specialists at the University of Fribourg, supervised by
Heinrich, for whom the investigation could have far-reaching
consequences.

