

Italian rider Paolo Savoldelli won the prologue of the Tour de
Romandie on Tuesday, leaving his main race rivals trailing on the
hilly 3.5 km time trial through the streets of Fribourg.


The 34 year-old, two-time Giro winner claimed his fourth prologue
win in the Swiss race, finishing with a three second lead over of
Czech Roman Kreuziger and five seconds ahead of third placed
Chris Horner of the United States.


"I didn't come here to win but to test myself and to do the best
possible," Savoldelli said after tackling the long steep climb
and a flat sprint to the finishing line.


"You needed really good legs to win today and make it through the
final kilometre," he added.


Last year's Romandie winner, Australian Cadel Evans, dropped out
of the top ten nearly 20 seconds behind the leader, leaving his
teammate Horner to take a place on the podium.


"My legs weren't too bad already in Liege-Bastogne-Liege. Here
it's getting better and better," Horner said.


"Cadel's doing well too and we're both aiming for the final
podium."


Evans, who lives in a nearby Swiss village, has vowed to defend
his 2006 Tour de Romandie title.


"My preparation revolves around the Tour de France. I want to be
in my best form in July. The Tour de Romandie is the first big
event of the season," the Australian told L'Impartial newspaper.


"I'll do my best to defend my title," he said.


After soft hills and a flat stage, the six-day Tour de Romandie
winds into the Swiss mountains on the fourth day and concludes
with a time trial around Lausanne next Sunday.


The 667 km Swiss race is wedged between the northern French and
Belgian one day classics on the Pro Tour and the Giro d'Italia.


The organisers are trying to relaunch the six-stage Tour de
Romandie as a training ground for all-rounders before the Italian
event starting on May 12.

