

A sharp drop in passenger car sales helped push Ford Motor
Company's April sales down 13 percent in April, the automaker
said Tuesday.


Only the luxury Lincoln and Land Rover nameplates managed to post
sales gains as total monthly sales fell to 228,623 vehicles from
262,722 a year ago. Car sales fell 23.6 percent while truck sales
were down 5.8 percent.


The struggling automaker -- which managed to narrow its heavy
financial losses in the first quarter of the year despite a
steady drop in sales -- said it was encouraged by strong sales of
its new cross-over sports utility vehicles and expected good
results from a new advertising campaign.


"We're beginning to stabilize our retail market share," said Mark
Fields, Ford's president of the Americas.


Fields said the automaker is adjusting its production schedule to
deal with a dramatic shift away from gasoline-guzzling trucks and
large SUVs, which made up 70 percent of Ford's US sales three
years ago and only 50 percent of the sales today.


"We will continue to introduce new crossovers and even more small
cars in the United States, as they represent the consumer growth
segments going forward."


Land Rover sales rose 12.7 percent to 4,211 vehicles following
the introduction of its first crossover utility, the LR2, which
hit sales of 1,302 vehicles in its first month.


Lincoln sales rose 6.9 percent to 11,832 vehicles, also boosted
by the introduction of a new crossover.


Jaguar sales continued to flounder, down 28.5 percent at 1,424
vehicles, while Volvo dropped 16.6 percent to 8,122 vehicles. The
Ford and Mercury brands were down 14 percent at 185,553 and
17,481 vehicles respectively.

