

Maverick filmmaker David Lynch called Tuesday for schools around
the world to adopt transcendental meditation to help avoid a
repeat of last month's US university shooting in which 33 people
died.


"I think rules about guns being in schools will never stop school
violence," Lynch said in a webcast to promote the brand of
meditation he has been practicing for more than 30 years.


"What is causing this rage and this imbalance that would cause a
student to want to harm another student or many other students?"
asked the 61-year-old, whose dark and disturbing movies include
"Blue Velvet" and "Eraserhead."


"The cure for this is a very, very beautiful cure, a very
beautiful technique... that allows any human being to dive within
and experience this deepest level of life," he said.


In 2005 Lynch launched the David Lynch Foundation for
Consciousness-based Education and World Peace, which has provided
nearly five million dollars to support in-school meditation
programs for thousands of students.


His foundation now wants to see one million students worldwide
taught meditation to reduce stress and enhance creativity,
intelligence and energy.


"When I started meditating I had a real anger in me and I would
take this anger out on my first wife," he said, recounting his
own experience. "Two weeks after I stared meditating, this anger
lifted."


Lynch, a Hollywood outsider and free-thinker who also paints and
plays the guitar, bases his beliefs on the teachings of the
Maharishi Mahesh Yogi, who became a guru to celebrities such as
the Beatles during the 1960s.

