

Cirque du soleil will develop a permanent show on The Palm
Jumeirah in Dubai to open at the end of 2010, land developer
Nakheel said Tuesday.


A unique 1,800-seat theatre will be built to stage the
attraction, the first to be staged outside of North America,
Japan and China. The show, with original music and costumes,
would be presented for the following 15 years.


"Dubai is one of the fastest growing cities in the world and as
with any city experiencing such a rapid growth curve, major
cultural and civic facilities are required for a city
establishing itself as a global 21st century destination,"
Nakheel chairman Sultan Ahmed bin Sulayem said in a statement.


The city is home to more than 30 five star hotels with 14,000
rooms, he noted. Nakheel previously brought Trump and Atlantis to
The Palm Jumeirah.


The new Cirque-Nakheel partnership was established following the
success of the Cirque du soleil's touring show Quidam, which
visited Dubai in January 2007 in the troupe's first ever season
in the Middle East.


More than 100,000 spectators saw the show at Nakheel's Ibn
Battuta mall, "making it the most successful single entertainment
project ever to be staged in the region," Sultan Ahmed bin
Sulayem said.


Nakheel currently has a portfolio of 16 major residential,
tourist, commercial or retail developments, projected to be worth
more than 80 billion dollars, spread across 2 billion square feet
of land.


Montreal-based Cirque du soleil started with 20 street performers
in 1984, and has expanded to 15 simultaneous shows around the
world, employing 3,500 people in more than 40 countries,
including 900 artists.


The Canadian circus has been seen by close to 60 million
spectators in over 100 cities on five continents.

