

Britain's largest ever trade union, representing about two
million public and private sector workers, was launched on
Tuesday following the merger of two workers' bodies.


Amicus and the Transport and General Workers' Union have merged
to form Unite, while the date of its official creation was timed
to coincide with international workers' day on May 1.


Unite will represent British workers in a wide variety of sectors
-- ranging from agriculture, construction, finance, food,
manufacturing and transport.


The new group will also represent many contract workers, and will
have a strong presence in public services and the voluntary
sector.


Unite will be headed by Derek Simpson and Tony Woodley, who were
general secretaries for Amicus and TGWU respectively. Members
from both unions had voted earlier this year in favour of the
merger.


"Unite is uniquely placed to build an international trade union,
capable of protecting working people of all ages from
exploitation, whoever they work for," Simpson said Tuesday.


Woodley added in a joint statement: "Two unions with a proud
history but an even brighter future come together today to form
one progressive, organising, fighting back industrial giant.


"Unite will be focused above all on winning for our members in
the workplace and taking trade unionism to the millions who need
it."


Unite becomes Britain's biggest trade union ahead of Unison, its
nearest rival, which has approximately 1.3 million members.


Amicus and TGWU will continue to co-exist in a transitional stage
which lasts until November 2008, following the election of
Unite's new executive in June 2008.


Trade unions are increasingly losing influence in Britain,
despite the country being governed by the Labour Party, which was
traditionally a key supporter of workers' organisations.

