

London's FTSE 100 index of leading shares dipped in subdued trade
on Tuesday, dragged down by mining and banking stocks, as other
European markets shut for the May Day public holiday.


In closing deals, the British capital's FTSE showed a drop of
0.46 percent at 6,419.60 points.


The euro was changing hands at 1.3603 dollars.


European stock markets were closed for the day in Amsterdam,
Frankfurt, Lisbon, Madrid, Milan, Paris and Zurich. In Asia,
financial markets in China and Hong Kong were also shut.


In the United States the major US stock indexes lost their
opening momentum amid a fresh bout of profit-taking as investors
braced for monthly sales updates from the big auto manufacturers.


Japanese share prices closed down 0.72 percent, hit by overnight
losses on Wall Street and a dearth of buyers in a holiday week,
dealers said. The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of
leading shares lost 125.43 points to 17,274.98.


In London a drop in the price of copper weighed on mining stocks
with Anglo American losing 0.71 percent to 2,650 pence and Rio
Tinto 0.42 percent to 3,060 pence.


In banking rival bidders for Dutch bank ABN Amro lost ground,
with Barclays losing 1.17 percent to 719 pence and Royal Bank of
Scotland 1.14 percent to 1,908 pence.


The news that Rupert Murdoch's media empire, News Corp, had
launched a takeover for the US publishing firm Dow Jones, boosted
media stocks in late trading.


BSkyB gained 1.65 percent to 584.50 pence, Pearson 4.59 percent
to 901 pence, Reuters 3.46 percent to 494 pence and the Daily
Mail and General 2.62 percent to 862.50 pence.


Punch Taverns was one of the biggest casualties of the market dip
seeeing its share price dive 3.37 percent to 1,260 pence on
profit-taking following in-line interim results from the British
pubs operator.


Shares in Imperial Tobacco fell 1.15 percent to 2,152 pence after
the group said that interim net profits climbed by more than 6.0
percent to 421 million pounds.


Imperial added that the group needed more information from
Franco-Spanish cigarette maker Altadis before raising its current
takeover bid of 12 billion euros (16.4 billion dollars).


In Turkey shares extended their losses on Tuesday amid a
political crisis over presidential elections that has set the
Islamist-rooted government against the army.


The national index of the Istanbul stock exchange lost 1,454
points, or 3.23 percent, closing the day at 43,529.5 points. The
index had shed 4.0 percent on Monday.


In Wall Street trade on Tuesday the Dow Jones Industrial Average
was up a slight 5.29 points (0.04 percent) at 13,068.30 with the
Nasdaq composite down 9.37 points (0.37 percent) at 2,515.72
while the broad-market Standard and Poor's 500 index had lost
3.59 points (0.24 percent) to 1,478.78.


The main indexes had initially opened stronger. But analysts said
a weaker-than- expected report on pending home sales, amid a
wide-ranging housing downturn, had dented optimism.


In French and German deals on Monday, takeover talk had driven
share prices higher.


The Paris CAC 40 shares index had finished 0.49 percent higher at
5,960.04 points, while in Frankfurt the Dax had gained 0.42
percent to close at 7,408.87.

