

A UN court has named a former government official wanted over the
1994 Rwandan genocide who has until now remained anonymous,
according to an order obtained by AFP Tuesday.


Dominique Ntawukuriryayo is one of 18 people still wanted by the
International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (ICTR) and one of
three whose names were not released to the public.


At the time of the massacres, in which the UN estimates 800,000
people died, he was a sub-prefect of Gisagara, in the southern
Butare province.


"The tribunal orders the ban be lifted on the charge sheet and
arrest warrant against Dominique Ntawukuriryayo," said the order
from Judge Jai Ram Reddy, dated last Friday.


The charge sheet was submitted by the prosecutor on June 13,
2005, and accuses Ntawukuriryayo, a Hutu, of genocide, complicity
in genocide and inciting the public to commit genocide.


"Between about 21 and 25 April, 1994, Dominique Ntawukuriryayo
collected soldiers and gendarmes from Butare and transported them
to Kabuye hill to kill the Tutsis who were there," the court
order said.


"During the same period, he also collected ammunition from Butare
which was used by attackers to kill the Tutsis at Kabuye hill."


There was no explanation as to why the charges and the warrant,
which was issued on September 21, 2006, were kept secret or why
they were now being made public.


The Rwandan authorities said last year that Ntawukuriryayo was
living in Belgium, but the ICTR was not available Tuesday to say
where he was now.


Based in Arusha in northern Tanzania, the court is charged with
bringing to justice those responsible for the Rwandan genocide.


Among those still sought is Rwandan billionaire Felicien Kabuga,
who is suspected of providing funding for the killings and is
thought to be hiding in Kenya.

