

Yoga clothing retailer Lululemon hopes to raise 200 million
dollars in an initial public offering to finance a massive
expansion, the company said Tuesday in securities documents.


The Vancouver-based company filed a preliminary prospectus with
the US Securities and Exchange Commission outlining plans to list
its stock on Nasdaq and Toronto exchanges and use the funds to
double the number of its stores.


The company was founded in 1998 at the onset of a swelling North
American yoga craze.


As of April, it had 52 stores in Canada, the United States,
Australia and Japan selling women's athletic apparel, but plans
to open an additional 50 to 60 stores in Canada and the United
States by the end of 2008.


"The market for technical athletic apparel is highly competitive,
the company said in securities filings.


"Many of our competitors are large apparel and sporting goods
companies with strong worldwide brand recognition, such as Nike,
Inc. and Adidas AG, which includes the Adidas and Reebok brands."


Indeed, the ancient Indian discipline whose aim is to join mind,
body and soul generates about l8 billion dollars annually for
moguls such as Los Angeles superstar yoga teacher Bikram
Choudhury and his more than 750 franchised studios worldwide
leading the way.


Rob Wrubel and George Lichter, who founded and sold the search
engine Ask Jeeves, are opening studios called Yoga Works.


And the word itself is used to promote everything from vodka to
chakra panties.


Last year, Lululemon reported earnings of 7.7 million dollars and
148.9 million dollars in revenues, growing almost 91.1 percent
annually since 2004.

