

Al-Qaeda's north African operations are funded with money made
through crime and charitable fundraising in Spain and France, a
Spanish judicial investigation has found, it was reported on
Tuesday.


Spanish newspaper El Pais reported that a team of prosecutors and
judges had unearthed a complex web of sleeper cells in France and
Spain that were financing terror operatives in North Africa.


It said investigators discovered that petty criminality and
funneling money through charities, as well as use of offshore
funds, were the key revenue sources for the Al-Qaeda groups.


In one example, money from the Bahamas had reached members of a
cell in Spain that had attempted to mask its activities by
creating bogus receipts made out in the name of a Japanese IT
company, El Pais said.


Al-Qaeda has recently stepped up operations in the Maghreb region
of north Africa via its Algerian offshoot, the Salafist Group for
Preaching and Combat (GSPC), the main extremist outfit in
Algeria's long running Islamist rebellion.


The group claimed responsibility for two car bombs in Algiers on
April 11 which left 30 dead and injured more than 200 people.


In Morocco, six suicide bombers blew themselves up as police
closed in on them in Casablanca last month.


According to El Pais, Spanish police say individuals currently in
Spanish detention had links to the suicide bombers.


Spanish and French intelligence reports also say France and Spain
are key terrorist targets in Europe, the paper said.


Earlier this year Spain's security services was ordered to
redouble efforts to monitor networks and individuals linked to
Islamist groups and in particular to increase surveillance in the
country's north African enclaves of Ceuta and Melilla.


Spain is already on heightened alert because of the ongoing trial
of those suspected of involvement in the 2004 Madrid bombings
which killed more than 200 people.

