

Turkey's ruling party said Tuesday it would be prepared to call
early general elections after the country's highest court
annulled a first round parliamentary vote to elect a new
president.


Justice Minister Cemil Cicek said the offer of early elections
was conditional on the opposition agreeing to a constitutional
amendment to lower the age at which candidates can stand in
parliamentary elections.


"We are in favour of bringing the elections forward. There is no
doubt about that," Cicek, who is also the government spokesman,
told reporters after a cabinet meeting.


"If the opposition is sincere (in calling for early elections),
we are ready to hold this election as soon as possible," he said.


The "only condition" of the ruling Justice and Development
Party's (AKP) is a constitutional amendment that will lower the
age of parliamentary eligibility to 25, a reform that the party
has long advocated, he said.


The general elections are currently scheduled for November 4.


The Constitutional Court ruled earlier that a Friday's
parliamentary vote to elect a new president was invalid, because
not enough MPs were present for the ballot.


The ruling comes amid widespread concern in Turkey about the
Islamist background of the sole presidential candidate Foreign
Minister Abdullah Gul.


The court was petitioned by the main opposition Republican
People's Party which is hoping to block Gul's election and force
early general elections.


Cicek said parliament will convene Wednesday to decide how to
proceed in the presidential election after the court ruling.


"Parliament will decide how to proceed... The general assembly
will convene as scheduled tomorrow," he said.


Parliament had been scheduled to meet at 1200 GMT Wednesday for
the second round of voting.


Up to a million people demonstrated in Istanbul's Sunday in
favour of secularism and against Gul and his party, which many in
secular Turkey suspect of pursuing Islamist ambitions.

