

Senior officials from the United States, Russia, China, Britain,
France and Germany will meet in London Wednesday to discuss
Iran's nuclear programme, Britain's Foreign Office said Tuesday.


The meeting of the so-called P5 plus Germany -- the permanent
members of the UN Security Council plus Berlin -- comes amid
growing signs that the US could break its long-time rule of not
talking to Tehran later this week.


The US insists that any talks will steer clear of the disputed
nuclear issue, but discussions would still be seen as a major
step forward in relations between the countries.


"This is part of a pattern of discreet discussions on the next
steps," a Foreign Office spokesman said of the London meeting.


Javier Solana, the European Union's foreign policy chief, last
week called on the United States to "open a channel of
communication with Iran" on issues including the nuclear
question.


He has been spearheading talks with Iran on the nuclear issue.
The West suspects Iran of wanting to develop nuclear weapons,
while Tehran insists its nuclear programme is for civilian
purposes only.


Washington broke off relations with Iran in 1980 after a hostage
crisis when the US embassy in Tehran was seized by Islamic
militants.


US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice is heading this week for a
series of meetings on Iraq, ready to open a long-awaited but
"firm" dialogue with the previously taboo regimes in Iran and
Syria.


All eyes will be on Rice to see if she finally takes the leap and
meets directly with her Iranian counterpart, Manouchehr Mottaki
at talks Thursday and Friday at the Egyptian Red Sea resort of
Sharm el-Sheikh.

