

A human rights defender for over 25 years in the Democratic
Republic of Congo was presented with a top Irish award by U2's
Bono in Dublin on Tuesday.


Gege Katana, the founder and president of the Solidarity Movement
of Women Human Rights Activists (SOFAD) based in Uvira, received
the third Front Line Award.


The annual award honours a human rights defender who has
displayed exceptional courage in working non-violently for the
rights of others as enshrined in the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights.


"For me, winning the award is a recognition of my work as a human
rights defender and gives me the strength and encouragement to
pursue my struggle in the area of human rights," Katana said.


"I cannot fully express my joy in receiving this award, nor my
gratitude towards Front Line for supporting and helping me in my
work."


Bono read a poem to Katana before he presented the award at
Dublin's City Hall.


Front Line said Katana's movements are routinely under
surveillance. She was banned from travelling between 1996 and
2003 and has been arbitrarily arrested several times and receives
regular death threats.


SOFAD works through a grassroots network of 625 women to research
and campaign against sexual violence.


It also educates local communities on women and children's
rights, and lobbies the government to deliver justice and reform
discriminatory laws.


Irish foreign aid minister Conor Lenihan paid tribute to Katana's
courage.


"In the face of ongoing harassment, she works tirelessly for the
rights of others.


"Women play a central role in the defence of human rights and I
am particularly pleased that the winner of this year's prize is a
woman and furthermore, a woman from Africa," Lenihan said.


Front Line, founded in 2001, is a non-governmental organisation
based in Dublin whose mission is to protect vulnerable human
rights defenders at immediate risk and to provide practical means
to improve their security.

