

Japan's chance of hosting the 2010 World Cup should South Africa
fail to meet organisational deadlines is "less than one in a
thousand," Japanese football chief Saburo Kawabuchi said Tuesday.


FIFA president Sepp Blatter has told the British Broadcasting
Corporation (BBC) that Japan and other countries are ready to
organise a World Cup at short notice as they have enough stadia.


"If we are ordered to consider organising one, we will be happy
to accept it. But such a possibility is less than one in a
thousand," Kawabuchi, the head of the Japan Football Association,
told reporters.


"I believe he made the comment as he appreciated Japan's
organisational ability and stadia. I feel honoured," he said,
referring to Blatter's statement.


Japan co-hosted the first World Cup in Asia with regional rivals
South Korea in 2002. It also staged the Summer Olympics in 1964
and the Winter Games twice in 1972 and 1998.


South Africa will become the first African nation to host
football's four-year showpiece event, but reports of delays in
stadium construction work have threatened hopes of the tournament
being staged there.


FIFA, football's world governing body, remain confident that all
necessary facilities will be ready in time but Blatter clearly
feels FIFA need to keep options open in case there are any
unforeseen problems.


Asked if England or Australia were fall-back options should the
South African organisation falter, Blatter said: "Yes, but there
are other countries that are ready to organise tomorrow morning
or in two days, or two months, a World Cup. The United States of
America, and Mexico, they can do it, Japan, they can do it."

