

The dollar received a boost from unexpectedly strong US
manufacturing data on Tuesday as the Turkish lira remained under
pressure amid ongoing political turmoil.


In late European trading the dollar was changing hands at 1.3603
against the euro, from 1.3649 dollars in New York late on Monday.
The dollar was changing hands at 119.77 yen, compared with 119.41
on Monday.


The euro, which last Friday soared to an all time high of 1.3682
against the dollar, on Tuesday hit an historic record high
against the Swiss franc, as it breached 1.65 francs for the first
time, climbing as high as 1.6534 Swiss francs, compared with
1.6474 late on Monday.


Meanwhile the Turkish lira extended losses amid a political
crisis over presidential elections that has set the Islamist-
rooted government against the army.


The lira traded at about 1.378 against the dollar, losing 0.7
percent of its value since Monday.


In the United States all eyes had been on US industrial activity
data, with the better than expected Institute of Supply
Management (ISM) index coming ahead of key US jobs data on
Friday.


The index jumped to 54.7 from 50.9 in March. The index had been
expected to edge up slightly to just 51.0. Notably, the key price
component in the index also edged up, suggesting price pressures
are increasing.


Julian Jessop, an economist at Capital Economics said the data
made it more likely that the central bank would maintain interest
rates at current levels when it meets on May 9.


The euro had hovered near its record high against the dollar on
Monday after a US government report revealed a benign inflation
reading, raising the odds of a rate cut, analysts said.


US consumers limited spending growth in March amid a lingering
housing market slump and high gasoline prices, even as their
personal incomes remained robust, the report showed.


The Commerce Department said consumer spending rose just 0.3
percent in March, disappointing Wall Street analysts who had
expected spending to rise at least 0.5 percent.


Last Friday, the euro soared to its all-time high of 1.3682
dollars following news that the US economy had expanded at its
slowest pace in four years during the first quarter.


The euro changed hands at 1.3603 dollars, against 1.3649 dollars
late Monday, 163.00 yen (163.10), 0.6807 pounds (0.6826) and
1.6530 Swiss francs (1.6474).


The dollar stood at 119.77 yen (119.41) and 1.2148 Swiss francs
(1.2067).


The pound was being traded at 1.9993 dollars (1.9994).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold was at 673.60
dollars per ounce, from 677 dollars late on Monday.

