

Survivors and families of victims of the 2005 suicide attacks in
London took their call for an independent inquiry to the heart of
government Tuesday, amid claims they could have been prevented.


The group handed in a letter to Britain's Home Office to press
for a probe into how the security services handled intelligence
about the attacks, that killed the four bombers and 52 public
transport commuters on July 7.


It was written after the revelation that Omar Khyam, one of five
men given life sentences Monday for plotting an Al-Qaeda bombing
campaign on British targets, had met two of the bombers, Mohammed
Sidique Khan and Shehzad Tanweer.


But no further action was taken against Khan and Tanweer as there
was no evidence they posed a terrorist threat.


"A year ago, we were told that the bombers were clean skins,
coming out of the blue," said Rachel North, who survived one of
the three bombs that exploded on a London Underground train.


"It is quite apparent now that they were not. It is a matter of
necessity that we have a proper interrogatory inquiry into what
happened."


The British government has repeatedly said that there was no
warning that the July 7 attacks would take place.


Prime Minister Tony Blair has rejected calls for a public
inquiry, saying it would divert security services and police away
from the task of fighting current threats.


But parliament's intelligence and security committee, which in a
previous report into the bombings said there were "no culpable
failures" by security services over intelligence, agreed Tuesday
to review its findings.


The letter was signed by up to 50 people, who have called for a
formal response from the government.

