

India's highest court will decide Thursday on whether a national
probe into the controversial killings of a Muslim couple in
Gujarat state is necessary, officials said Tuesday.


Judges of the Supreme Court would say Thursday whether the
killings in 2005 would be investigated by the federal Central
Bureau of Investigation (CBI) -- instead of by state police -- to
ensure a fair investigation, court officials said.


The Congress party-led national government has been pressing for
a CBI investigation into the slayings in Gujarat, a move that is
stiffly opposed by the troubled state's Hindu nationalist
provincial administration.


Three top Gujarat police officers were arrested last week on
charges of staging a gunbattle in November 2005 in which
Sohrabuddin Sheikh died.


A few days later Sheikh's wife, Kauser Bi, died too and her body
was burned, allegedly to destroy evidence, prosecutors told the
court Monday.


Sheikh was shot after being accused of plotting to kill Gujarat
Chief Minister Narendra Modi, who has been roundly blamed for
sectarian riots which left at least 1,000 people dead, mostly
Muslims, in the state in 2002.


Modi belongs to India's main opposition Bharatiya Janata Party
(BJP), which was also held responsible for the 1992 razing of an
ancient mosque.


The incident unleashed nationwide bloodletting which left more
than 2,000 people dead, 90 percent of them Muslim.


The Supreme Court later faulted the Gujarat state government for
failure to investigate and punish the crimes.


The BJP was ousted from power by the Congress in national
elections held in 2004, but manages to retain its hold in
Gujarat.


Muslims, at more than 130 million people, make up India's largest
single minority community.

