

A significant number of Taliban rebels were killed in a major
NATO-led offensive in a restive southern Afghanistan district, a
spokesman said Tuesday.


The casualties occurred Monday in the Sangin valley in southern
Helmand province, which has been plagued by violence, after NATO-
led and Afghan troops began an anti-Taliban operation the same
day, the military spokesman said.


"During the course of events yesterday a significant number of
insurgents were killed," a spokesman for the NATO-led
International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) in Afghanistan
told AFP.


Local and international forces continue to make efforts "to
create security conditions in the Sangin valley so that
meaningful reconstruction and development can occur," said the
spokesman, who declined to be named.


About 2,000 NATO-led and Afghan troops began the offensive --
called "Operation Silicon" -- in the Taliban-dominated area,
which has seen some heavy fighting in the last month.


Silicon is part of Operation Achilles, which was launched March 4
with some 4,500 ISAF soldiers and 1,000 Afghan troops in northern
parts of Helmand.


Sangin, some 70 kilometres (40 miles) northeast of the provincial
capital Lashkar Gah, is said to be a Taliban stronghold supported
by drug money.


Helmand produces about 40 percent of Afghanistan's opium, the raw
ingredient required to make heroin. The impoverished, war-torn
country provides some 90 percent of the world's illegal opium
supply.


The Taliban are active across southern and eastern Afghanistan,
even though they were ousted from power more than five years ago
by a US-led invasion.

