

Afghanistan and its donors agreed Tuesday to recruit 20,000 more
policemen than planned to cope with a Taliban-led insurgency,
officials said.


It "is important that the level of police is raised, particularly
to be present in the insurgency-shaken provinces in the south,"
the UN representative to Afghanistan, Tom Koenigs, told
reporters.


Afghanistan's donors pay the salaries of the police force, which
currently numbers roughly 62,000.


The decision was made at a regular meeting in the capital, Kabul,
between the government and its international partners and aid
groups.


Koenigs was speaking after the meeting of the Joint Coordination
and Monitoring Board, which convenes regularly to assess
Afghanistan's progress against benchmarks in an internationally
mapped out development plan.


Taliban insurgents have been able to easily, albeit briefly,
overpower remote districts in the south, where the police force
is weak.


The meeting, whose final report is due in the coming days, found
there had been some progress in Afghanistan's recovery from
nearly three decades of war.


There were more children in school, more paved roads and 82
percent of Afghans now have access to basic health services, a
statement said.


"However, there have been some unexpected challenges from
insecurity in the south and southeast of the country," Professor
Ishaq Nadiri, an advisor to President Hamid Karzai, told
reporters.


There was a need to "accelerate work on turning initial outputs
into meaningful changes for a majority of Afghans," he added.


Southern Afghanistan sees most of the country's insurgency-linked
violence, which has killed more than 1,000 people this year,
mainly militants.


Koenigs said the meeting had stressed the importance of efforts
to disarm the scores of illegal and armed groups around the
country.


He also said the government needed to urgently start work on the
2009 election, with an electoral law and voters' list still to be
finalised.

