

Kenyan President Mwai Kibaki on Tuesday promised free education
in public secondary schools starting next year, a move that would
drastically reduce the cost of learning.


Kibaki made the pledge at a May Day speech to thousands of
workers in the capital's Uhuru (independence) gardens in a year
in which he is expected to seek re-election.


"With effect from January, 2008, my government will meet the cost
of tuition in all public secondary schools, at a cost of 4.3
billion shillings (63 million dollars," he said.


"In addition, the government has reviewed the cost of the running
of all secondary schools in order to reduce the cost burden to
the poor households," he added.


Tuition fees -- including books and other tools for learning --
are the main costs involved in Kenyan education, but more than 70
percent of Kenyan secondary schools charge extra fees for
boarding, transport and food.


If Kibaki's pledge is implemented, Kenya will become the second
country in sub- saharan Africa to introduce free secondary
education after Uganda, which launched a pilot programme in
March.


Kibaki's government introduced free primary education in January
2003, attracting more than 1.5 million children previously unable
to afford schooling.


But the government has faced a funding shortfall in recent months
owing to a higher than expected demand for free primary
education.


The UN children's agency (UNICEF) and other western donors bailed
out the government to continue with the programme.


Political analysts said Kibaki made the move in anticipation of
December elections when he is expected to face political
opponents who have already vowed to introduce free secondary
education.

