

The head of English rugby's governing body, the Rugby Football
Union (RFU), has been forced into a humiliating retreat by his
council members over the boycott of English clubs from next
season's European Cup.


A spokesperson for the clubs' acting body, the Premier Rugby
League (PRL), told AFP that several members of the council had
not heard what he termed the real side of their story before and
had instructed Martyn Williams to return to the bargaining table
and negotiate ove what they had heard.


"We had a very positive meeting with the RFU Council last
Friday," the spokesperson said.


"We were able to explain to the Council our position, which
certain members did not appear to be au fait with.


"As a result of this the RFU Council understood the truth of our
position and asked the directors of the RFU to negotiate on the
basis of what they had heard.


"The question over the shares in the ERC (organiser of the
European Rugby Cup) should be resolved in a debate on broader
matters.


"I don't think there will be an announcement in the next few
weeks on the next European Cup," he added.


While PRL want the clubs to have half the RFU's shares in the ERC
- which has prompted their boycott of the competition - they are
also firmly opposed to the RFU wanting to issue central contracts
to international players like they do in Ireland and France.


The French clubs are also boycotting the European Cup, ostensibly
because they say they sympathise with the English clubs stance,
though, most pundits believe it is more to do with fixture
congestion next season following the World Cup which the French
are hosting.


The sport's global governing body the IRB had offered the French
the chance to play their doemstic championship during the World
Cup - which is never usually permitted - but the offer had been
declined because the broadcaster of the championship didn't want
to be witohut its best players for several weeks.

