

US President George W. Bush said Tuesday that a conference this
week on Iraq's security will be "an important test" of whether
Iran and Syria truly want to help their war-torn neighbor.


"Iran and Syria have been invited to attend. This will be an
important test of whether these regimes are truly interested in
playing a constructive role in Iraq," Bush said in a speech
defending his handling of the unpopular war.


The May 3-4 conference in Egypt will group all of Iraq's
neighbors, the five permanent UN Security Council members, plus
representatives from the United Nations, the European Union,
Canada, Germany and Japan.


Washington has accused Damascus of letting fighters slip into
Iraq to target US- led forces and charges Tehran has provided
training and weapons to insurgents behind much of the deadly
violence in the strife-torn country.


The meetings in the Red Sea resort of Sharm el-Sheikh will be
divided, with one on security and the other among Iraqi donors
aiming to slash Baghdad's foreign debt and boost reconstruction
efforts.


Thursday's meeting will be within the framework of the
International Compact with Iraq (ICI), launched in Baghdad in
July with UN and World Bank support.


The compact, which has strong support from Washington, has goals
that include Iraq's equal treatment of all its ethnic groups, an
equitable partition of the country's oil export revenues and
support for the government to fight corruption and practice good
governance.


The ICI is to be adopted on Thursday, after three sessions,
including two that are closed, according to state-owned daily Al-
Akhbar.


On Friday, a meeting on Iraq's security will bring together
Iraq's six neighbors -- Iran, Jordan, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Syria
and Turkey -- as well as Egypt, Bahrain, the Arab League, the
Organisation of Islamic Conference and the United Nations.

