

Cuban President Fidel Castro was a no-show Tuesday at the
communist country's May 1 parade, disappointing many who
predicted he would use the all-important workers' holiday to
announce a resumption of his official duties.


Speculation was rife that Castro, 80, who has not been seen in
public since undergoing major intestinal surgery nine months ago,
might finally have recovered enough to return to power, and that
the would use the annual May Day festivities to highlight his
return.


But the ailing leader was nowhere to be seen at the massive rally
held each year in Havana's Revolution Square, failing to appear
for only the third time since taking power nearly a half-century
ago.


Castro's health is treated as a national security matter by
Cuba's government, the only one-party communist regime in the
Americas, which has offered little detail on his condition in the
past nine months.


A newspaper article published Monday by the ailing president
helped feed rumors that he might address the holiday's usually
huge crowds.


Under the headline "It is time for an energy revolution right
now," Castro lashed out at the voracious consumption of energy by
the First World countries, particulary the United States.


"Insatiable in its demand, the (US) empire has called on the
world to produce biofuels to free the United States from
dependence on imported oil," Castro wrote in the Communist Party
newspaper Granma.


"Nothing is stopping US and European capital from financing
biofuels. They could even give the funds to Brazil and Latin
America.


"The United States, Europe and other industrialized countries
would save more than 140 billion dollars every year, with no
concern whatsoever for the fallout in terms of climate change and
hunger, which will affect developing countries the most," he
wrote.


The May 1 holiday, Castro continued "is a good day to have these
thoughts go out to the workers, and all of the world's poor."


Castro's last public appearance was July 26 -- a one day before
undergoing intestinal surgery and just before his July 31
temporary handover of power to his brother, Raul Castro, 75.


His failure to show up Tuesday confounds the predictions of some
insiders, including Castro ally and friend Bolivian President Evo
Morales, who predicted that the Cuban president would make a May
1 return to public life.


"I am certain that on May 1, comrade Fidel will resume his role
leading Cuba and Latin America," Morales said on Saturday.


Earlier, Cuban officials would neither confirm nor deny
speculation Fidel Castro would be at the massive rally at
Havana's Revolution Square.


"If it is possible, he'll be there, and if it is not, he won't,"
Economy Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez said over the weekend.

