

A European parliament delegation met Palestinian prime minister
Ismail Haniya in Gaza on Tuesday despite an EU diplomatic boycott
of his Hamas movement, sparking a protest from Israel.


The 25-member delegation was led by Cypriot MEP Kyriacos
Triantaphyllides, the president of the European Parliament
committee for relations with the Palestinian Legislative Council.


Haniya used the meeting to call on "the international community
to work with the national unity government in an official and
direct manner as it represents the will of the Palestinian
people," said a statement from his office.


He also appealed again for a direct aid embargo on his cabinet to
be lifted.


Triantaphyllides told AFP the delegation had come to Gaza "to see
exactly what the situation is because we are for helping and
finding a solution to the problem.


"We consider this government as an opportunity to facilitate the
peace process."


The EU, along with Israel and the United States, considers Hamas
a terror group, and froze direct aid and diplomatic contacts with
the Palestinian government after the Islamist movement first
formed a cabinet last year.


Hoping to break the embargo, Hamas on March 17 formed a unity
cabinet with president Mahmud Abbas's secular Fatah faction and
Western-backed independents, but the West has so far refused to
lift the freeze.


The EU and US are asking that the government explicitly recognise
Israel, renounce violence and agree to abide by past peace deals
for the aid to resume.


Israeli foreign ministry spokesman Mark Regev criticised
Tuesday's meeting.


"The EU has classified Hamas as a terrorist organisation and the
EU leadership has boycotted Hamas," he told AFP. "Thankfully this
delegation does not speak for the EU.


"Giving legitimacy and recognition to an organisation that
refuses to support peace and refuses to renounce terrorism cannot
but strengthen that organisation's extremist agenda," he said.

