

Nanjing Auto's MG brand, bought from Britain's defunct MG Rover
group, will spearhead the Chinese company's efforts to export
cars to Europe, the firm said Friday.


MG brand cars will be exported to Europe in the second half of
the year with sale in China getting underway at the same time,
Nanjing MG deputy general manager Yang Junhu said ahead of the
official opening of the Shanghai auto show on Sunday.


Exports are expected to surpass domestic sales in three years,
said Yang.


Nanjing Auto launched production of two MG sports car models last
month after buying the rights to the historic cars from the
bankrupt MG Rover Group, once makers of the iconic Mini and
Jaguar, in July 2005.


The cars, the MGTF, a roadster convertible, and MG7, a four-door
sedan, were unveiled by Nanjing Auto last month.


The MGTF will roll off Nanjing MG's production line in Britain
next month, Yang said, adding that the company will launch at
least one new MG model every year thereafter.


Nanjing MG now has annual production capacity of 200,000 vehicles
and 250,000 engines but capacity is expected to double when new
body coating facilities are completed.


Last year Nanjing, which also has a joint venture with Italy's
Fiat, announced it would build the MG brand in Oklahoma from May
2008, which would make it the first Chinese automaker to build
cars in the United States.


Its ambitions have however been overshadowed by its chairman's
recent request for financial help, sparking concerns in the
domestic media that the company is overstretched and may have to
shelve the plan.


Yang made no mention of any financial problems the firm may be
facing.

