

Thailand on Friday rejected a US offer of military assistance to
help quell an insurgency in the country's Muslim-majority south,
saying the unrest was an internal matter.


The United States, a close ally of Thailand, has reportedly
offered to help the kingdom rein in the unrest, which has killed
more than 2,100 people since January 2004.


"It's not necessary. This is our own internal problem which we
have to solve among ourselves," the kingdom's army-installed
Prime Minister Surayud Chulanont told reporters in the
insurgency-torn south.


The violence has escalated since Surayud, a former general, took
office after a September coup, despite a series of peace efforts,
including an apology to Muslims for past abuses.


Surayud was making a one-day trip Friday to the troubled south in
an effort to boost the morale of security officers and see
relatives of victims in the unrest.


"This is the problem where all Thais need to cooperate and
participate," Surayud said of the conflict.


His comments also followed a Human Rights Watch report that
argued the military- backed government has stepped up its use of
militias in a bid to solve the long- running insurgency, putting
civilians at greater risk of violence.


Surayud said his government would act forcefully against
militants but insisted that it would not employ "any illegal
methods" in battling the insurgency.


The three Muslim-majority provinces of Yala, Narathiwat and
Pattani were once an autonomous sultanate, until the region was
annexed by mainly Buddhist Thailand a century ago. Separatist
unrest has erupted periodically ever since.

