

Australian share prices rose 0.69 percent Friday as a positive
lead from Wall Street helped the banking and resource sectors
bounce back from sharp losses on Thursday, dealers said.


They said big miners such as index leader BHP Billiton and Rio
Tinto made gains as views grew that any move by China to cool its
fast growing economy will have a limited impact on commodity
prices.


Banks were favoured even though inflation data for the three
months to March, due to be released next Tuesday, is expected to
support the case for another interest rate hike by the central
bank next month.


The benchmark SP/ASX 200 closed up 42.4 points at 6,207.5 while
the broader All Ordinaries index rose 38.9 points to 6,187.2.


A total of 1.51 billion shares worth 4.96 billion dollars (4.11
billion US) were traded, with rises outnumbering falls 698 to 571
and 322 stocks unchanged.


Macquarie Investment Management private client advisor Joseph
Youssef said strong fundamentals continued to underpin the market
due to a positive global outlook, helped by strong growth in
China.


"While it is sometimes hard to measure what's happening in China,
it remains positive and that should underpin commodity prices,"
Youssef said.


He added that while the overall market is close to record highs,
his firm continues to see value in BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto as
the two groups continue to expand capacity to meet market demand
for their products.


BHP Billiton was up 0.23 at 29.85 dollars while Rio Tinto rose
0.87 to 83.42.


CMC Markets senior dealer Josh Whiting said strength in the
financial sector helped steer the market to a strong close for
the week.


"Following a shake-out in Asian share markets on Thursday,
investors have sought the safety of local banking stocks
expecting upcoming earnings announcements to be beneficial for
sentiment in that sector," Whiting said.


Whiting noted the biggest success story of the week was chemical
company Orica, whose rejection of a private equity takeover bid
on Wednesday brought the stock to life, and triggered a 24
percent rally across the week.


Orica ended up 0.35 at 33.90 dollars after trading as high as
34.28.


National Australia Bank closed up 0.29 at 43.70, Commonwealth
Bank added 0.50 to 53.20, ANZ gained 0.31 to 31.21, Westpac rose
0.25 to 27.35 and St George advanced 0.74 or 2.06 pct to a record
36.65.


Qantas ended up 0.01 at 5.37 as the Airline Partners of Australia
consortium's 5.45 dollars a share offer showed little sign of
advancing with acceptances being only 27.48 percent to date.

