

Thousands of reservoirs in China are "time bombs" waiting to
burst, an official was quoted as saying Friday, a day after a dam
collapse forced the evacuation of 1,700 people.


"The problematic reservoirs are like time bombs, seriously
threatening the lives and property of people living downstream,"
said Jiao Yong, deputy minister of water resources, according to
the official Xinhua news agency.


On Thursday, 1,700 people had to be evacuated from four villages
after a dam in northwest China's Gansu province was breached,
causing water to flood the surrounding area and destroying a
highway bridge.


Jiao said all structurally unsound large, medium-sized and major
small reservoirs nationwide would be repaired within three years.


The government would ensure the reinforcement and safety of the
reservoirs, but it was a huge task, he said.


China has more than 85,000 reservoirs, of which 30,000 have
serious structural problems, including 200 large and 1,600
medium-sized dams, Xinhua said.


China's dams and other efforts to control the country's
frequently treacherous rivers have a long and tragic history.


In August 1975, a total of 62 dams in the central province of
Henan either collapsed or were intentionally destroyed during a
record rainstorm.


According to official statistics, at least 26,000 were killed and
10 million severely affected by the ensuing floods, which were
kept secret for years. Experts have blamed faulty engineering for
some of the dam failures.


Cracks in the Three Gorges Dam on the Yangtze river have raised
concerns over construction quality of the world's largest
hydroelectric project, built partly to aid flood control.


The government has said the cracks pose no problem and has
carried out repairs.

