

Hong Kong share prices closed 1.31 percent higher Friday,
rebounding from Thursday's steep decline amid hopes that Chinese
authorities will take measured steps to cool down the country's
economy, dealers said.


They said investors also noted a recovery on Shanghai's A-share
market, which bounced back 3.92 percent after tumbling 4.5
percent Thursday amid worries over possible policy tightening.


China is widely expected to adopt further macro-economic
tightening measures after first-quarter gross domestic product
growth and March inflation came in stronger than expected.


The Hang Seng Index closed up 266.88 points at 20,566.59, off a
low of 20,474.31 and just off the day's high of 20,567.34. For
the week, the index was up 225.62 points or 1.1 percent.


Turnover was heavy at 63.0 billion dollars (8.1 billion US).


"The market suspects China could be preparing for another
interest rate increase of about 27 basis points, but it had
marginal impact in Shanghai and on local trade today," said
Michael Chan, head of research at CSC Securities.


Marco Mak, research head at Tai Fook Securities, sees some
profit-taking in the week ahead should China implement further
macro-economic measures.


"We believe macro-economic controls will give investors an excuse
to correct overbought China stocks," he said.


He noted that the much-speculated rate increase will benefit
Chinese banks as it "would most likely widen interest spreads"
and boost margins.


CSC's Chan said that focus next week will be more on trading
debuts of some Chinese firms than interest rate-related moves.


"CITIC Bank will be among the last of the medium-sized lenders to
list in Hong Kong and many (investors) would be eager to
participate. Strong demand should allow for an over 30 percent
rise on the first trading day," he said.


Country Garden, which made its trading debut Friday, closed at
7.27, up 35 percent from its IPO price of 5.38. It opened at 7.0
dollars.


Dealers said the strong debut helped boost sentiment on the
property sector in general.


Henderson Land was up 0.75 at 47.75, Sun Hung Kai was up 0.75 at
91.60 and Cheung Kong was up 0.60 at 101.40.


The property sector sub-index was up 225.86 points or 0.94
percent at 24.308.32.


Mainland property firms were also mostly higher despite
speculation that the sector may be among those that may be hit by
the Chinese government's expected credit-tightening measures.


Agile Property was up 0.12 at 8.20 and RF Properties rose 0.84 at
19.62.


China Mobile gained 2.40 at 74.90 and HSBC rose 1.40 at 144.60.

