

Japan's powerful automakers shifted into high gear at the
Shanghai auto show, announcing Friday a range of ramped up sales
forecasts and expansion plans.


Toyota Motor Corp, the second largest car maker in the world,
said its new production plan with partner FAW in north China's
Tianjin city will start operations this week.


The Tianjin FAW Toyota Engine venture sunk about 270 million
dollars into the factory that will produce 220,000 engines
annually, Toyota announced ahead of the start of the Shanghai
auto show Sunday.


Toyota also expects sales this year in the vibrant Chinese market
to top the 400,000 mark, up from the 308,000 units sold last
year, company vice president Yoshimi Inaba said.


Meanwhile, Honda forecast that its two joint ventures in China --
Guangzhou Honda and Dongfeng Honda, will sell 400,000 cars this
year compared with 323,469 in 2007, said Hyogo Atsuyoshi, chief
of Honda's China operations.


Guangzhou Honda executive vice president Fu Shoujie told
reporters that the venture plans to export 40,000 sedans this
year.


Dongfeng Nissan Passenger Vehicle, controlled equally by Nissan
and Dongfeng Automobile, said it is targeting sales of 300,000 in
2007, up from last year's 200,000.


Nissan, Japan's second-largest auto maker, also unveiled its new
Livina model, a compact, three-row seater, with the new vehicle
priced at around 100,000 yuan.


It also unveiled its latest concept car, the Bevel, a multi-
purpose vehicle featuring a 2.5 litre V6 engine with solar panels
to boost power.

