

Daiei Inc., which is linking up with supermarket giant Aeon Co.
to create Japan's largest retail group, Friday reported higher
operating profit after closing unprofitable stores.


However, the Japanese retailer, which is emerging from years of
financial difficulties, warned that its profits would fall
sharply in the current fiscal year.


Daiei said that its operating profit for the year to February
increased 8.5 percent from a year earlier to 48.3 billion yen
(407.1 million dollars).


Outlet closures caused revenue to slump 23.4 percent to 1.28
trillion yen.


The company said its net profit plunged to 41.3 billion yen from
413.2 billion due to the absence of the one-off gains made a year
earlier.


Daiei had logged a special profit of some 400 billion yen a year
earlier because of debt waivers by its key creditors as part of a
rehabilitation plan drawn up by the Industrial Revitalization
Corp of Japan (IRCJ).


Daiei was once Japan's biggest retail chain but fell victim to
the bursting of the "bubble economy" in the early 1990s and was
placed under the management of the state-run bailout body in
December 2004.


For the current fiscal year to February 2008, Daiei forecasts a
68.5 percent decline in net profit to just 13 billion yen due to
expected weak income at credit card affiliate OMC and to a higher
corporate tax rate.


Daiei, which recently agreed to forge a capital and business
alliance with Aeon, expects operating profit to tumble 35.8
percent to 31 billion yen and sales to dip five percent to 1.22
trillion yen.


Aeon, Japan's largest supermarket operator, is buying a 15
percent stake in Daiei from trading house Marubeni, which became
Daiei's top shareholder after buying shares from the IRCJ, which
was dissolved in March.

