

President Olusegun Obasanjo called for a crackdown on vote
rigging ahead of Nigeria's landmark presidential election on
Saturday after a campaign marked by violence and political
turmoil.


Africa's biggest oil producer has faced international calls to
prevent election chaos and Obasanjo said in a nationwide
broadcast on Friday: "The world is watching us and we cannot
afford to disappoint ourselves, our friends and the world."


The election will provide Nigeria's first civilian-to-civilian
power transfer since independence in 1960.


But at least 21 people were killed in election linked violence in
the days after polls for state governors and assemblies last
weekend. Obasanjo acknowledged that the vote had been "marred" by
fraud.


There are 25 candidates for the presidency but three Muslims from
northern Nigeria are the favourites: Umaru Yar'Adua of the ruling
People's Democratic Party (PDP), Vice President Atiku Abubakar,
who defected from the PDP to run as candidate for the opposition
Action Congress, and former military ruler Muhammadu Buhari of
the All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP).


Yar'Adua had emergency medical treatment in Germany last month,
but health concerns aside, he is seen as holding the edge over
his two main rivals.


Obasanjo said foreign election observers should not exaggerate
the scope of electoral fraud in Africa's most populous country,
which has an electorate of 61 million people.


"I appeal to our local and international observers to understand
some of our limitations as a complex developing nation and not to
exaggerate the negative and thereby throw out the baby with the
bath water," Obasanjo said.


Obasanjo said efforts had been made to improve on the
shortcomings of past elections.


He said last week's election was "marred" by fraud but insisted
the "massive rigging" which has characterised past elections was
on the decline.


"Let us continue to improve on the structure and the house rather
than pull it down because it is leaking in part," he said.


"There is no perfect society but other societies identify their
weaknesses and shortcomings and collectively make correction by
strengthening the positive and eliminating the negative."


Obasanjo urged aggrieved candidates and their supporters to
"explore all avenues for seeking redress rather than taking to
jungle justice and running down the totality of our country and
all it stands for."


On top of accusations of fraud and vote-rigging in last weekend's
elections, at least 20 people were killed in election linked
violence.


Troops also killed 25 suspected Islamic militants in the northern
city of Kano on Wednesday, one day after an attack on a police
station which left 12 police and one civilian dead.


Eighteen opposition parties had threatened a boycott of the
election unless it was postponed until "transparency and
fairness" could be guaranteed.


But Action Congress and the ANPP withdrew their threat on
Thursday and the other parties quickly followed.


The elections are being keenly watched around the world because
Nigeria is the world's sixth biggest oil exporter. The United
States and European Union had both called on the opposition not
to stage its threatened boycott while also calling on the
government to take action to prevent voter fraud.


A total of 109 senators and 360 members of the lower house of
parliament will also be elected across the country on Saturday.

