

Bangladesh's last prime minister Khaleda Zia has asked the
military-backed government to immediately free her son and allow
her one last party meeting before she leaves for exile, a report
said Friday.


Zia "has been trying to delay the departure as the government is
yet to settle some issues including her demand that her son
Tareque be allowed to go with her," a family source told the
leading New Age newspaper.


"The government is yet to fulfil another of her demands to allow
her to meet some senior BNP leaders to settle how the party would
be run in her absence," the source told the paper.


The interim military-backed government is forcing Zia, leader of
the Bangladesh Nationalist Party (BNP), out of the country as
part of a campaign to clean up the country's dysfunctional and
notoriously corrupt political system.


Her arch-rival, Awami League leader Sheikh Hasina Wajed, has also
been barred from returning to the country from holiday.


Many blame the two women for the political turmoil that led to
the imposition of emergency rule in January and the cancellation
of elections later that month.


A deal for her to leave quietly for Saudi Arabia reportedly
involves authorities showing leniency to her two sons, who face
corruption and extortion allegations as part of the interim
government's crackdown.


Her elder son Tareque Rahman, however, is still behind bars.


But the Daily Star newspaper said Zia was expected to visit him
on Friday at Dhaka central jail before possibly flying out of the
country later in the day.


"Khaleda along with her younger son, two daughters-in-law and
three grandchildren might fly for Saudi Arabia on Friday," a
source told the newspaper.


Zia's government stepped down last October at the end of a five-
year term. A caretaker government then took over, tasked with
holding polls within three months.


But months of street violence between BNP and Awami League
supporters led to the cancellation of January's elections, the
imposition of emergency rule and the introduction of a new
military-backed caretaker government.


The new authorities have pledged to push through far-reaching
reforms aimed at rescuing the country's embattled democracy
before holding rescheduled elections by the end of 2008.


It has also detained scores of top-ranking political and business
figures from both parties on corruption charges.


Zia and Sheikh Hasina, who have alternated in power since 1991,
are both members of political dynasties that have dominated the
political landscape since Bangladesh won independence in 1971.


Sheikh Hasina is the daughter of Bangladesh's independence leader
and first premier and president Sheikh Mujibur Rahman who was
killed in a 1975 military coup.


Zia is the widow of former president Ziaur Rahman, an army chief
who also played a leading role in the independence struggle. He
was assassinated in military coup attempt in 1981.

