

A top Chinese official was to begin a visit to Zimbabwe on Friday
in a further buttressing of ties between the long-time allies,
the government in Harare said.


Jia Qinglin, chairman of the national committee of the Chinese
People's Political Consultative Assembly, was leading a
delegation of top officials on a four-day visit, according to an
information ministry official.


The official said he would be meeting President Robert Mugabe and
speaker of parliament John Nkomo and handing over a gift of
Chinese tractors.


The government-run New Ziana news agency quoted Nkomo as saying
the visit was a sign of burgeoning relations between Harare and
Beijing.


"As you know, President Robert Mugabe has been to China and was
well-received and this continues to strengthen our relations,
that is between China and Zimbabwe in various aspects, cultural,
economic and also political so we are excited that they are
coming and we look forward to hosting them," Nkomo said.


Zimbabwe and China have relations dating back to Zimbabwe's 1970s
liberation struggle when Beijing provided arms and training to
the black nationalist movement fighting the white minority
government of Ian Smith.


The friendship was rekindled when Mugabe, shunned by former
friends in the West over the political crisis in his country,
adopted a "Look East" policy forging stronger ties with countries
like China, Malaysia, Indonesia and India.


Since the launch of the policy China has supplied passenger and
military planes including two for free, hundreds of buses to
augment the state transporter's depleted fleet and tractors to
boost agricultural production.


Beijing also funded a Chinese language and culture institute at
Zimbabwe's main university while Zimbabwe's national carrier
increased the number of flights to China early this year.

