

Kosovo's ethnic Albanian prime minister on Friday ruled out a
Russian proposal for further talks with Serbia on the future
status of the contested province.


"There is no (possibility of) a restart of the negotiations,"
said Agim Ceku, referring to UN-led talks that lasted 13 months
but ended in deadlock earlier this year.


"There is no readiness from anybody, at least there is no
readiness on our part, to have the negotiations restarted," he
told reporters in the Kosovo capital Pristina.


Kosovo has been managed by a UN mission since mid-1999, after
NATO bombing ended a crackdown by Serbian forces on the
province's independence-seeking ethnic Albanians.


In coming weeks, the UN Security Council is to decide on its
future status based on a recommendation by UN special envoy
Martti Ahtisaari for it to be granted internationally supervised
independence.


During a visit to Serbia on Thursday, Russian Foreign Minister
Sergei Lavrov said the Ahtisaari plan had "failed," making it
necessary for new talks between Belgrade and Pristina.


But Ceku said the Ahtisaari proposal was now a matter to be dealt
with by the United Nations, having won "legitimacy" by being
backed by UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon.


The Kosovo leader stressed he remained confident that "we will
have an independent Kosovo based on a UN resolution" by the end
of next month.


Belgrade hopes veto-wielding Russia will block any new resolution
that would strip Serbia of sovereignty over Kosovo, an ethnic
Albanian majority province it sees as the country's historic
heartland.

