

The son of prominent Iraqi Shiite leader Abdel Aziz al-Hakim came
under attack in a town south of Baghdad in which six of his
security personnel were wounded, officials said Friday.


Ammar al-Hakim, himself a well-known cleric and politician, was
on his way to Baghdad from the Shiite holy city of Najaf when
gunmen fired on his convoy as it passed the town of Latifiyah,
Najaf provincial spokesman Ahmed Duaibl said.


"The convoy came under attack in Latifiyah. It was fired at from
a distance," he told AFP, adding that it may have been an
opportunistic attack on an official- looking motorcade rather
than a planned assassination bid.


An official from Hakim's office said four police escorts and two
of his personal bodyguards were wounded in the attack. Hakim
escaped unhurt, the source added, speaking on condition of
anonymity.


Latifiyah, located in a region south of Baghdad dubbed the
triangle of death, is notorious for such attacks as armed gangs
randomly fire on passing convoys.


Hakim senior heads the Supreme Council of the Islamic Revolution
in Iraq (SCIRI), a Shiite former rebel group that is one of the
leading factions in Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki's governing
coalition.


The Shiite faithful consider both men to be sayyids, or
descendants of the Prophet Mohammed. Their party was founded in
exile in Iran and retains links to the Tehran government.


In February, US troops detained Ammar al-Hakim for several hours
after his convoy crossed back into Iraq from Iran, accusing him
and his guards of behaving suspiciously during a search of their
vehicles.


The arrest triggered SCIRI-sponsored street protests and he was
released.

