

The Secretary General of the Organisation for Economic
Cooperation and Development (OECD) refuted on Friday press
allegations of croneyism and a lavish lifesytyle.


Mexican Angel Gurria described a report in The Economist weekly
magazine as "drawing on a mixture of innuendo, gossip and partial
truths" which was related to his wish to crack down on corruption
and croneyism within his organisation


"It is no surprise that this attack occurs at this time," he said
in a statement.


"As Secretary General of the OECD since June 2006 I have spoken
out vigourously in favour of international efforts to fight the
scourge of corruption in the global economy. I am equally
determined to root out any hint of favouritism or corruption
within the OECD secretariat," he said.


The Economist report comes as the World Bank's president, Paul
Wolfowitz, comes under pressure to resign over revelations that
he ordered a massive pay deal for his bank employee girlfriend,
Shaha Riza.


According to the British weekly which was published on Friday,
since Gurria became OECD chief in June 2006 spending on the
president's official residence spiralled from 600,000 euros
(816,000 dollars) to 733,000 euros, plus 300,000 euros attributed
to other other budget expenditure.


Gurria said that the residence had "not been the object of
serious maintenance for more than 20 years, with the result that
it was in need of major refurbishment."


The magazine also alleged that he had withdrawn a promise by his
predecessor to a senior OECD official that the official would be
appointed to the post of executive director. Gurria, The
Economist said, had appointed Belgian Patrick Van Haute instead.


"Normal rules of confidentiality with regard to individual staff
members preclude me from commenting on this specific case, other
than to say that in withdrawing this job offer I acted in the
best interests of the organisation," he said.

