

The ACT Brumbies kept their Super 14 hopes alive with a last
minute penalty from winger Mark Gerrard to sneak past Perth-based
Western Force 14-12 here Friday.


The win, their fourth in a row, moves the Brumbies into fourth
place in the Super 14 table. But they will have to lift their
game several notches if they are to threaten the Crusaders next
weekend and maintain their hopes for the semi-finals.


The Force secured a bonus point for finishing within seven points
of the Brumbies and with two home games remaining, they still
have a slim hope of making the semis.


Only one try was scored in a match featuring a mixture of high
class defence and poor ball control.


The Force, in particular, were impressive in defence considering
they conceded more than 100 points in their previous two matches
in New Zealand, against the Crusaders and the Chiefs.


"The Force defended superbly tonight," ACT coach Lawrie Fisher
said. "They obviously did a lot of hard work during the week."


ACT hooker Jeremy Paul scored the only try in the match as both
teams' defences dictated the game.


The halftime score of 8-6 to the Brumbies reflected the closeness
of the two sides.


The Force played the last 15 minutes of the first half and the
first five minutes of the second with only 14 men as first
skipper Nathan Sharpe and then Ryan Cross were shown yellow cards
for persistent fouls.


The Brumbies attacked relentlessly during this period but
couldn't breach the Force's line until the stroke of halftime
when Paul somehow burrowed his way over, despite being tackled by
four Force players.


Sharpe said playing a man down for 20 minutes had cost the Force.


"Twenty minutes, when we reflect on it, probably would have taken
a fair chunk of energy out of the boys," he said.

