

SAP, the world's leading maker of business software, said on
Friday that earnings rose strongly in the first three months of
the current year, even if the increase fell short of
expectations.


SAP said in a statement that bottom-line net profit rose by 10
percent to 310 million euros (422 million dollar) in the period
from January to March.


Operating profit was up 6.0 percent at 433 million euros in the
first quarter on a 6.0-percent rise in revenues to 2.166 billion
euros, the statement said.


Revenues from software and software-related services, a key
benchmark for the sector because companies use them to generate
revenue from maintenance and consulting, rose by 9.0 percent to
1.519 billion euros.


While net profit and revenues were in line with analysts'
expectations, operating profit fell short of consensus forecasts.


In a telephone news conference, chief executive Henning Kagermann
said he was satisfied with the first-quarter numbers, with the
first quarter traditionally the weakest quarter of the year.


"We've started the year well," Kagermann said.


In the all-important US market, for example, software and
software related service revenues were up 12 percent, despite the
strong euro. Adjusted for exchange rate developments, growth was
as much as 22 percent.


And SAP's global market share advanced to 25.1 percent from 24
percent at the end of last year.


SAP reaffirmed its full-year target for an increase of 12-14
percent in software and software-related service revenues.


The operating margin, which measures underlying profits as a
proportion of sales, was projected to reach 26-27 percent,
compared with 27.3 percent in 2006.


SAP said it would continue to target software sales of around 15
percent in the coming years and was hoping to boost customer
numbers to 100,000 by 2010 from 38,000 at present.


SAP shares were among the top gainers on the Frankfurt stock
exchange on Friday, rising by 0.98 euros or 2.71 percent to 37.08
euros.

