

Defending champion Heilo Castroneves clocked the best lap time to
take pole position for Saturday's Indy Japan 300, the third leg
of the 17-round series.


The Brazilian driver, fresh from his victory in the second round
at St Petersburg two weeks ago, timed 26.6416 seconds on the
1.5-mile Twin Ring Motegi course north of Tokyo Friday.


Two-time Motegi champion Dan Wheldon of Britain was the second
fastest in 26.6744, and another Brazilian, Tony Kanaan third in
26.7217.


American female driver Danica Patrick, who was the fastest in a
free practice session on Thursday, was fourth in 26.7881.


"I found that speed in my pocket. The car was perfect. This
series is very, very competitive, and I know a lot of people will
try to beat us tomorrow," said Castroneves.


It was his series-leading 18th career pole and second in a row,
winning 12 titles out of 82 starts.


"It's obviously very good to start on the front row," said
Wheldon, the winner of the season-opener at Homestead-Miami
Speedway last month. "It's going to be a very competitive race."


Meanwhile, Kanaan said: "It can always be better and I was
expecting one-tenth quicker, but Andretti Green Racing did a very
good job. I think we have four good race cars."


"It's a long race and qualifying really means nothing at this
track. I'm pretty confident that we have a strong car for the
race," added Kanaan, who shares the second row with Patrick.


"We are here to qualify on the pole, but ultimately the races are
long days and you can come from any position to win," said
Patrick.


"The Motorola car felt very good, but having a car that can do it
for 200 laps is another story and I think we've got that car. I
expect to have a good race," she added.

