

Pakistani authorities blew up the headquarters of a pro-Taliban
group in a remote tribal area after the extremists set up an
Islamic court and a private jail, officials said Friday.


They dynamited the hardline Lashkar-i-Islam (Army of Islam)
group's office in Bara, the capital of Khyber district bordering
Afghanistan, after the organisation refused to close it down, the
officials said.


The same group was responsible in March for stoning then shooting
to death a woman and two men who were accused of adultery.


"Authorities planted explosives in the building and blew it up
Thursday night after the Lashkar failed to vacate the premises,"
tribal administration official Atta-ur-Rehman told AFP.


He said that the group's commander, Mangal Bagh, had set up a
Taliban-style court in the building to decide cases that locals
referred to him, and kept a prison in the basement.


"We will not allow anyone to challenge the writ of the government
or to run a parallel system of governance," he added.


Last year 25 people died in battles in Bara between supporters of
mullahs who used illegal radio stations to preach rival versions
of Islam.


Pakistan has been fighting so-called "Talibanisation" in its
conservative tribal belt since thousands of militants fled
Afghanistan in late 2001 after US-led forces toppled the hardline
Islamic regime there.


But fears have mounted about the rising influence of Islamic
extremists in the rest of the country after a radical mosque in
Islamabad set up its own Sharia or Islamic court earlier this
month.


The Red Mosque sparked a standoff with the government by
threatening to launch suicide attacks and by issuing a fatwa
against the tourism minister after she was photographed hugging a
foreign paragliding instructor.

