

The European single currency neared an all-time peak against the
dollar on Friday as investors were lured by the increased chances
of higher eurozone interest rates, dealers said.


The euro touched 1.3637 dollars in early European trading, which
was not far off its historic record of 1.3666 dollars set on
December 30, 2004.


In Berlin, finance ministers from the 13-nation eurozone shrugged
off the surging strength of the euro.


The prospect of higher interest rates in the eurozone has
propelled the euro higher against other major currencies as many
investors borrow in low interest rate currencies for higher-
yielding euro-denominated investments.


Many investors are switching away from the dollar because
American borrowing costs appeared to be heading lower, dealers
said.


"The US dollar is broadly weaker (on Friday), with euro/dollar
nudging back to fresh cycle highs," said ABN Amro analysts in a
note to clients.


Owing to strengthening European economies, particularly in
Germany, analysts believe the European Central Bank will likely
hike rates soon from the current level of 3.75 percent. In
contrast, many market watchers reckon the US Federal Reserve will
cut rates from the current 5.25 percent.


With little economic data on the radar for Friday, market
participants would focus on China, analysts said.


"Due to the lack of important data releases, the market may well
focus on US Secretary of Treasury Paulson's words at a conference
on China today," said Commerzbank analyst Gavin Friend.


Later on Friday, the euro eased to 1.3604 dollars, from 1.3609
dollars in New York late on Thursday. The dollar stood at 118.67
yen, compared with 118.50 previously.


Chinese economic growth data has sparked concerns that the Asian
tiger could also increase interest rates as it seeks to rein in
its rampant economy. The yuan has hit fresh highs against the
dollar amid concern about the release.


ABN Amro analysts added: "Currency markets are becoming
increasingly sensitive to near term differential growth dynamics
tied to the global cycle and ... the dollar sank on the news of
strong Chinese growth data."


In Berlin, Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker
commented on the euro's ascent as he arrived to head a meeting of
eurozone finance ministers.


"I don't see any particular reason to be excessively concerned"
about the euro's strength, Juncker said.


Despite the steady rise in the shared European currency's value,
finance ministers have been markedly tight lipped since February
when some were more notably outspoken over concerns about the
impact of the currency's strength on exports.


The pound sterling, meanwhile, pulled back from a recent 26-year
pinnacle against the dollar following disappointing retail sales
data.


British retail sales rose by 0.3 percent in March from the figure
in February, official data showed, which undercut analysts'
forecasts had been for a monthly gain of 0.5 percent.


Sterling had struck 2.0133 dollars on Wednesday to reach its
highest reading since June 1981 as dealers priced in a likely
rate rise in May following stronger-than-expected inflation data.


Early on Friday the euro changed hands at 1.3604 dollars, against
1.3609 dollars late Thursday, 161.45 yen (161.27), 0.6800 pounds
(0.6793) and 1.6423 Swiss francs (1.6394).


The dollar stood at 118.67 yen (118.50) and 1.2074 Swiss francs
(1.2044).


The pound was being traded at 2.0011 dollars (2.0032).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold rose to 685.85
dollars per ounce, from 681.90 dollars late on Thursday.

