

EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana will hold new talks on
April 25 with Iran's top nuclear negotiator Ali Larijani at as an
undetermined location, Solana's spokeswoman confirmed Friday.


"There will indeed be a meeting on April 25," she told AFP,
confirming a report on Iranian state television on Thursday.


When asked where the talks would be held spokeswoman Cristina
Gallach would only say "neither in Brussels nor in Tehran".


The UN Security Council imposed new sanctions against Iran on
March 24 after it repeatedly ignored ultimatums to suspend
uranium enrichment but charged Solana with trying to re-establish
talks.


Solana and Larijani talk regularly by telephone but their last
face-to-face talks were in Munich, Germany on February 11.


Gallach said Solana's job is to try "to create the conditions for
negotiations" on a way to tempt Tehran to halt nuclear enrichment
with a package of political, economic and trade incentives.


Major world powers have been insisting that Iran must first
suspend uranium enrichment before these negotiations can resume,
while Iran insists any suspension should be a matter for the
negotiations themselves.


Many Western countries fear that Iran is trying to develop an
atomic bomb under the guise of its civilian nuclear programme.
The Islamic republic maintains that it only wants to generate
energy.


After the Security Council adopted the new sanctions, tightening
an earlier package approved in December, Solana stressed that
diplomacy remained the European Union's preferred means of
addressing international concerns.


"The door to negotiations is open; I hope we can together find a
way to go through it," he said.

