

Japanese share prices staged a modest rally Friday as investors
welcomed gains on the US and Chinese bourses amid easing concerns
about China's breakneck economic growth, dealers said.


They said that a softer yen also lifted sentiment after Wall
Street edged up to a second consecutive record finish overnight,
although gains were limited owing to caution ahead of a slew of
Japanese corporate results next week.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
rose 80.65 points or 0.46 percent to 17,452.62, having lost 1.67
percent on Thursday on worries that China's rapid growth would
require further interest rate rises.


The broader Topix index of all first-section shares advanced 3.14
points or 0.18 percent to 1,710.07.


Decliners outnumbered gainers 915 to 676, with 139 issues flat.


Volume dropped to 1.79 billion shares from 2.14 billion on
Thursday.


Hideo Mizutani, chief strategist at Sieg Securities, said
investors had been relieved that the Shanghai market had
rebounded Friday after its heavy losses Thursday ahead of China's
first-quarter economic growth data.


"The market rebounded following a sharp decline (on Thursday). It
helped that Wall Street overnight showed a calm tone ... with the
Dow hitting another record high (Thursday), although its gain was
small," he said.


"Another support for the market was the softer yen," he added,
after the dollar recovered the 118 yen level.


But the rebound was limited because investors held back for the
release next week of the earnings reports of leading companies,
dealers said.


"Gains here were limited because investors remained cautious
about a possible rate hike in China and further developments
there as well as next week's Japanese earnings results," said
Mitsushige Akino, chief fund manager at Ichiyoshi Management.


A raft of economic indicators including March industrial
production and consumer price index, as well as the Bank of
Japan's outlook for economic activity and prices, is also due for
release next week.


Tokyo Broadcasing System (TBS) jumped 410 yen or 10.7 percent to
4,250 after Rakuten, an Internet service provider, said it
planned to raise its stake in TBS to over 20 percent from 19.86
percent at present.


Rakuten was down 1,750 yen or 3.7 percent at 45,750.


Canon gained 50 yen or 0.8 percent at 6,560 after the Nikkei
business daily reported that the high-tech giant is expected to
report a record net profit of 520 billion yen (4.4 billion
dollars) in 2007, up 14 percent from 2006.


Toyota Motor rose 90 yen or 1.23 percent to 7,380 after the
Nikkei reported that the automaker will report a record operating
profit of 2.25 trillion yen (19 billion dollars) for the year
which ended in March, up 20 percent.


TDK added 120 yen or 1.18 percent to 10,260 after the company
said it had agreed to sell its recording media business and brand
rights to Imation Corp of the United States for 300 million
dollars.


On the foreign exchange market, the dollar climbed to 118.64 yen
in Tokyo afternoon trade from 118.50 in New York late on
Thursday. The euro rose to 1.3612 dollars from 1.3607 and to
161.49 yen from 161.14.

