

Australia's Kangaroos scored five tries to overpower New Zealand
30-6 in the Anzac Rugby League Test at Lang Park here Friday.


Sparked by skipper and standoff Darren Lockyer and scrum-half
Johnathan Thurston, the Australians surged home after leading 6-0
at halftime.


It was Australia's fifth consecutive win over their trans-Tasman
rivals since losing the 2005 Tri-Nations final 24-0 to the Kiwis
in Leeds, England.


They were at the heart of Australia's attacks and wore down the
resistance of the largely inexperienced Kiwis, who featured
several promising debutants, scrum-half Ben Roberts and fullback
Krisnan Inu.


The Australians needed a Lockyer golden point try in extra time
to clinch last year's Tri-Nations final with a 16-12 win over the
defending champions New Zealand in Sydney.


The Kiwis, led for the first time by prop Roy Asotasi, started
the Test fiercely and held the Kangaroos to 6-0 at halftime.


New Zealand had a great opportunity to level the score three
minutes after halftime but winger Jake Webster spilt an easy pass
with the try-line open.


The Australians came roaring back and doubled their lead when
Roberts fumbled a high Lockyer kick for winger Matt King to dot
down in the 47th minute, followed five minutes later when
opposite winger Brent Tate finished off slick work from Brisbane
Bronco teammates Lockyer and Justin Hodges to score.


The Kiwis scored their only points 12 minutes from fulltime when
giant winger Many Vatuevei followed up centre Simon Mannering's
grubber kick to score for Benji Marshall to convert for 18-6.


The Kangaroos mopped up the Test with two more tries in the final
four minutes through man-of-the-match fullback Karmichael Hunt
and Lockyer off a Tate centre- kick.


Thurston finished with five goals from six attempts.


The two leading sides face each other again in October in New
Zealand ahead of next year's World Cup in Australia.

