

Kidnappers in Paraguay on Friday released a Japanese member of
Sun Myung Moon's Unification Church and two Paraguayans after 19
days in captivity, the church said.


An armed group of bandits demanding ransom snatched two Japanese
members of the church and two locals at the beginning of the
month in Caaguazu, about 200 kilometres (120 miles) east of the
capital Asuncion.


The church said the armed group had released Hirokazu Ota, 62,
along with a Paraguayan policeman and his girlfriend, seized when
they witnessed the kidnapping.


Ota is the president of Victoria S.A., a company that manages the
church's assets in Paraguay.


The Unification Church in Tokyo was informed of their release in
a call from an employee of the company, said church spokesman
Tomohisa Ota.


"Mr. Ota himself had called up the company and told them he and
the two Paraguayans were all safe," the spokesman said.


Ota's secretary, Sawako Takayama, was also kidnapped but released
earlier this month as a "proof of life" as the bandits pressed
for 500,000 dollars to free the boss.


The church and government officials declined to comment on
whether any ransom was paid.


Japan's Tokyo Broadcasting System reported from Paraguay that a
total of 300,000 dollars was paid for the release of both Ota and
his secretary.


Prosecutors had been offering a 20,000-dollar reward for
information on Ota's whereabouts.


Japanese vice foreign minister Takeshi Iwaya said that the freed
trio were heading back to the Paraguayan capital.


"The embassy has received information that the company officials
secured the safety of the three hostages," Iwaya told reporters
in Tokyo.


The two local captives were police officer Rafael Ramos Balmori
and his girlfriend Nancy Gimenez, who teaches at a school outside
Asuncion.

