

Darth Vader has metamorphosed from an innocent boy to one of
cinema's quintessential symbols of evil. But now he's getting
back to his roots -- in Japan.


A Tokyo-based traditional dollmaker, arguing that Darth Vader was
inspired by Japan's samurai knights, has designed a pitch-black
set of armour fashioned after the Galactic Empire's dreaded
enforcer.


Fans in touch with their dark side can buy a 90-centimetre
(36-inch) tall samurai outfit handmade out of silk, aluminium and
brass that covers the torso, arms and legs, along with a pair of
black boots with padded soles.


While the armour resembles that of the samurai, who disappeared
in the 19th century, the helmet with the insignia of the Galactic
Empire is unmistakably Darth Vader.


"Darth Vader's costume was originally inspired by the Japanese
samurai, so now we're returning the favour," said Norifumi
Tanaka, manager for the Yoshitoku dollmaker, which will be soon
mark its 300th anniversary.


The set also includes a bow and arrow and a sword -- one of the
traditional Japanese variety rather than the bright "Star Wars"
lightsabres.


The suit is being released ahead of the 30th anniversary of the
original "Star Wars" film along with Japan's traditional May 5
holiday for boys.


But with the full outfit costing 346,500 yen (3,000 dollars), the
dollmaker acknowledges their customers will be adults.


"Mainly people who are maniacs about this film are buying this --
essentially men in their late 20s and older who grew up with this
film," Tanaka said.


The store began taking orders in March and has dozens of suits in
production, he said.


But Shigeki Sugihara, 34, taking a peek during his lunch break,
said the price tag was just too much.


"The melding of the samurai and Darth Vader is certainly
impressive, but it seems a little too expensive for what it is --
and I'm disappointed that the sword doesn't even light up."

