

Radical opposition leader Eduard Limonov vowed on Friday to carry
on fighting the Kremlin after a court officially banned his
National Bolshevik Party, declaring it an extremist movement.


Following the ruling by Moscow city court on Thursday, Limonov
said he would continue work with The Other Russia movement, an
opposition coalition formed ahead of the March 2008 presidential
elections.


"I will continue my activities within the The Other Russia,"
Limonov told AFP.


"This is a repressive, illegal verdict, a move by a fascist state
against a dissident political party."


"We have got used to suffering repression for the last seven
years, while Vladimir Putin has been in power. More than 120
members of our party have been in prison and 23 are currently
still there. But now we can expect massive arrests," he said.


Limonov, a cult writer who was forced out of the Soviet Union in
the 1970s, formed the National Bolsheviks in 1993.


The movement flirted with both fascism and communism and became
known for stunts such as descending the facade of a Red Square
hotel to unveil an anti-Putin poster and seizing public
buildings, activities described as "velvet terrorism" on the
group's Internet site.


Tensions have risen ahead of the upcoming presidential election,
and Limonov has been involved in a series of demonstrations
organised by The Other Russia against what it considers a Kremlin
effort to stage-manage the succession.


Putin is due to stand down at the March elections. He has
insisted that the Russian people will have a free choice and that
there is no question of the Kremlin annointing a successor.

