

Japan's conservative government, seeking to end a row over sexual
slavery by troops in World War II, said Friday it accepted post-
war trials that found the military responsible.


Prime Minister Shinzo Abe sparked controversy last month by
saying there was no evidence the imperial army directly coerced
thousands of so-called "comfort women" into brothels across Asia.


Abe's government reiterated Friday it did not dispute the
validity of the Allied 1946-48 Tokyo trials of Japanese leaders,
which documented the military's use of comfort women among war
crimes.


"Japan has accepted the ruling by the International Military
Tribunal for the Far East and is not in a position to express
objections to it," the government said in response to a question
by a left-wing opposition lawmaker.


The statement repeated that the government stands by Japan's
landmark 1993 admission of responsibility for the use of comfort
women and its apology to them.


Japan accepted the validity of the Tokyo trials by signing the
San Francisco treaty, under which it regained sovereignty from US
occupation in 1952.


Historians pressing Japan to make further amends to former
comfort women this week revealed documents submitted during the
Tokyo trials, which they say prove that Japan was directly
involved in sexual slavery.


Friday's government statement also said that official
investigations between 1991 and 1993 had failed to confirm the
number of women forced into sex slavery.


Historians believe up to 200,000 women served in brothels for
Japanese troops across Asia during the war.


Abe is known for his conservative views on history and in October
stirred controversy by saying that top war criminals hanged by
orders of the Allied tribunal were "not war criminals under
domestic laws."


But the uproar over his views has recently subsided, with Chinese
Premier Wen Jiabao striking a conciliatory tone on history during
a fence-mending visit to Japan last week.

