

Horse racing in South Africa's Western Cape province is to resume
on Saturday after the easing of restrictions imposed following a
suspected outbreak of the deadly African Horse Sickness (AHS).


"State Veterinary Authorities have lifted the ban on the movement
of horses for the horseracing industry provided that certain
precautions are in place," the Gold Circle racing and gaming
group said in a statement on Friday.


"Therefore horseracing in the Western Cape will resume on
Saturday 21 April 2007, at Kenilworth Racecourse."


While initial tests revealed the presence of the AHS virus in
some of the 13 horses to have died in the country's southern-most
province since March 15, subsequent clinical, epidemiological and
post mortem findings were not typical of the disease, veterinary
authorities said this week.


While restrictions on movements have been relaxed, horse exports
remain frozen and the 150 million rand-a-year (16 million euros,
21 million dollars) export industry is awaiting the final AHS
results with bated breath.


South Africa resumed exports of racing and dressage horses in
October last year after a ban of more than two years following an
outbreak of AHS in February 2004.


The country exports about 150 horses a year, all via the Western
Cape. About 750 horses are believed to have been exported since
1997.


The horse-killing disease, carried by midges, is endemic to the
continent, and can kill up to 75 percent of unvaccinated horse
populations.


Exports were halted immediately after an initial screening test
showed a horse that died on March 15 may have been carrying the
disease.


The horse died near Stellenbosch, north of the Cape peninsula
AHS-free zone where quarantine stations are based for all export
horses.

