

A lack of competition in the EU's wholesale electricity market is
making prices "significantly higher" than in a totally open
market, a report published Friday by the EU's executive arm
showed.


While rising fuel costs have contributed to electricity price
increases since 2003, "wholesale electricity prices are
significantly higher than would be expected on perfectly
competitive markets," according to the European Commission study,
carried out by an external consultant.


"The differences are highest when only a few generators with
available capacity are needed to meet demand, especially at peak
time," the Commission said in a statement.


The results of the study show that "competition in EU wholesale
electricity markets is not yet functioning properly," it added.


The study will be fuel for EU Energy Commissioner Andris
Piebalgs' campaign to see member states follow through on their
commitment to create competitive energy markets.


The unprecedented study carried out a detailed analysis of the
wholesale electricity markets of six EU member states; Belgium,
Germany, Spain, France, the Netherlands and Britain (excluding
Northern Ireland) from 2003-2005.


EU investigators analysed hourly data on virtually all power
plants in each market.


Part of the study compared the actual market price in four of
those countries with "what it would have been if the markets ...
had been perfectly competitive."


The "mark-up" -- separate from normal profits -- between the two
was found to be highest in Germany and Spain and lower in Britain
and the Netherlands.


No conclusions were drawn for France and Belgium due to a lack of
information or, in Belgium's case, an unreliable market price.

