

Two NATO soldiers were killed Friday in separate blasts in
southern Afghanistan, while three Taliban rebels died when a bomb
they were planting exploded prematurely, officials said.


The NATO-led International Security Assistance Force (ISAF),
which has around 37,000 troops in Afghanistan fighting the
resurgent Taliban movement, gave no further details about the
dead soldiers.


"Earlier today, two ISAF soldiers died as the result of
explosions in two separate incidents in southern Afghanistan," an
ISAF statement said.


ISAF said it would not release the victims' nationalities before
the relevant national authorities.


However the Netherlands said earlier Friday that a 21-year-old
Dutch corporal became the first Dutch soldier to be killed in
action in Afghanistan on Friday when he stepped on a landmine
during a foot patrol.


Dutch chief of defence staff General Dick Berlijn confirmed the
soldier was part of NATO's Operation Achilles against the Taliban
in southwestern Helmand province, according to the ANP news
agency.


There are about 2,000 Dutch soldiers in Afghanistan.


The deaths brought to 42 the number of international troops
killed in Afghanistan this year. Some 170 were killed there in
2006.


Separately in the western province of Farah three militants died
when a bomb exploded on a road which is often used by foreign
troops, provincial governor Ghulam Mohaidin Khan told AFP.


"The Taliban were killed as the bomb they were trying to plant on
the roadside went off," he said.


Western Afghanistan has been relatively peaceful compared to the
south and southeast bordering Pakistan, but attacks there have
increased this year.


Around 1,000 people have died so far this year in violence
related to the Taliban, who regularly attack foreign and Afghan
security forces, aid workers and civilians five years after they
were ousted by US-led troops.

