

No date has yet been set for a proposed visit to Israel by King
Abdullah II of Jordan, a palace official said on Friday, denying
an Israeli press report it had been fixed for next month.


"The king of Jordan received an invitation to visit Israel from
parliament speaker Dalia Yitzik during their meeting in Amman on
Thursday but no date has been fixed for such a visit," the
official said.


"King Abdullah is ready to make every effort to enable the
implementation of the Arab peace plan that serves the Palestinian
cause and clears the way for a just and comprehensive solution
permitting the establishment of an independent Palestinian
state," the official added, declining to specify whether that
included visiting Israel.


The Israeli daily Maariv had reported in its Friday edition that
the two-day visit would take place within three weeks amid
growing efforts to kick-start the Middle East peace process.


The paper said that Abdullah was even considering addressing the
Israeli parliament.


Miri Eisin, spokeswoman for Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert,
confirmed only that the premier had invited the king to visit
during a telephone call on Wednesday.


Jordan is one of only two Arab states to have signed a peace
accord with Israel and Abdullah has played a pivotal role in
efforts to mediate between Israel, the Palestinians and other
Arab states.


Abdullah first visited neighbouring Israel in March 2004, when he
met then prime minister Ariel Sharon in his ranch in the south of
the country.


On Thursday, Abdullah told Yitzik, who is also acting Israeli
president, that the five-year-old Arab peace blueprint was an
historic chance for peace in the region.


The initiative, reactivated at a summit in Riyadh last month,
"constitutes an historic opportunity to achieve Middle East peace
and end decades of conflict between Arabs and Israelis," a palace
statement quoted the king as saying.

