

A man angry at North Korea was arrested Friday as he tried to
chop off his own arm with an axe in front of the headquarters in
Japan of Koreans affiliated with the communist state, the group
said.


Carrying a letter of protest addressed to Japanese Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe, the man drove up to the building and was arrested
after wounding his left arm, news reports said.


Jiji Press, quoting police, identified the man as Koichi
Nishikawa, 55, a former member of a right-wing group.


"Please save the abducted Japanese citizens as soon as possible,"
he said in the letter, according to Jiji.


North Korea has admitted kidnapping Japanese in the 1970s and
1980s to train its spies and returned five of them and their
families in 2002.


Abe has built his career campaigning on the issue and has refused
to fund a breakthrough nuclear disarmament deal until the row is
resolved.


Tokyo police declined comment but the pro-Pyongyang General
Association of Korean Residents in Japan confirmed the incident
outside its headquarters.


The association, better known as Chongryon, said the activist had
earlier wounded his left wrist in a similar protest outside the
Japanese parliament holding fliers demanding stronger economic
sanctions on North Korea.


"This incident was an extremely vicious terrorist attack against
Chongryon and Korean residents in Japan," the group said in a
statement.


"The background of this incident is the fact that Japan considers
our country to be an enemy, making Chongryon and Korean residents
the target of sanctions and inciting xenophobia and segregation,"
it said.


Abe's government slapped sweeping sanctions on North Korea after
the communist state tested an atomic bomb in October.


Some 600,000 Koreans live in Japan, mostly a legacy of those who
emigrated or were enslaved during colonial rule. A disputed
number are affiliated with North Korea.

