

Europe's main stock markets rebounded strongly on Friday
following two days of losses, as fervent takeover activity struck
the pharmaceutical and banking sectors.


In early afternoon trading, London's FTSE 100 index of leading
shares was showing a rise of 0.77 percent at 6,490.20 points.
Frankfurt's DAX 30 jumped 1.38 percent to 7,341.95 points and in
Paris the CAC 40 index climbed 1.54 percent to 5,918.81.


The euro stood at 1.3605 dollars, remaining within sight of its
all-time high point of 1.3666.


The share prices of most leading European companies had fallen
over Wednesday and Thursday, hit by expectations of increased
interest rates in the eurozone and Britain. However, they
rebounded Friday on takeover news.


In London, Europe's biggest pharmacy chain Alliance Boots surged
8.15 percent to 1,135 pence, topping the FTSE 100, as a cross-
Atlantic bidding war erupted for the British group.


US and British private equity groups on Friday launched rival
cash bids approaching 11.0 billion pounds (16.2 billion euros,
22.04 billion dollars).


A takeover backed by either Terra Firma or Kohlberg Kravis
Roberts (KKR) would represent Europe's biggest buyout by a
private equity firm.


A consortium headed by British group Terra Firma tabled an
indicative bid worth 10.78 billion pounds for British company
Alliance Boots.


The offer trumped an improved bid by US group KKR which the
Alliance Boots board had accepted earlier Friday.


KKR, which is joined in its takeover by the executive deputy
chairman of Alliance Boots, Stefano Pessina, offered 10.6 billion
pounds.


In Paris, meanwhile, French bank Societe Generale rocketed 9.06
percent to 158.0 euros, and headed the CAC 40, on rumours of
plans to merge with French rival BNP Paribas, dealers said. BNP
Paribas jumped 4.76 percent to 87.19 euros.


Japanese share prices staged a modest rally on Friday as
investors welcomed gains on the US and Chinese bourses amid
easing concerns about China's breakneck economic growth.


Dealers said that a softer yen also lifted sentiment after Wall
Street edged up to a second consecutive record finish overnight,
although gains were limited owing to caution ahead of a slew of
Japanese corporate results next week.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
rose 0.46 percent to 17,452.62 points, having lost 1.67 percent
on Thursday on worries that China's rapid growth would require
further interest rate rises.


Hong Kong's key Hang Seng Index closed 1.31 percent higher to
20,566.59 points on Friday, rebounding from Thursday's steep
decline.


On Wall Street, the Dow Jones Industrial Average closed at a
record high above 12,800 points for a second straight day on
Thursday, as robust earnings news fuelled modest gains for blue
chips in a mixed overall market.


Better-than-expected earnings from financial heavyweight Bank of
America helped support the Dow, which managed a slight gain from
a day earlier.


The benchmark Dow index finished up 0.04 percent at 12,808.63
points, notching up a fresh record close after striking 12,803.84
a day earlier.


The other US share gauges failed to keep pace, however.


The broad-market Standard and Poor's 500 index lost 0.12 percent
to 1,470.73 points and the tech-dominated Nasdaq composite index
ended down 0.21 percent at 2,505.35.

