

French actor Jean-Pierre Cassel, who shot to fame as the star of
film comedies by director Philippe de Broca in the 1960s, has
died after a long illness, a statement from his entourage said
Friday.


Cassel died Thursday in Paris at the age of 74.


Born Jean-Pierre Crochon, he was discovered by American actor-
dancer Gene Kelly, who cast him in the 1957 film "The Happy
Road".


Cassel went on to fame in Broca's "Les Jeux de l'Amour" and "Le
farceur", both released in 1960.


During his career in which he starred in more than 110 films,
Cassel worked with some of the biggest names in film including
Claude Chabrol, Robert Altman, Luis Bunuel and Richard
Attenborough.


Cassel, whose father was a doctor and mother an opera singer,
moved on to a fruitful career in television and theatre in the
1980s and 1990s.


Lately, he could be seen in "Mauvaise Foi", the first film by
comedian Roschdy Zem which was playing in theatres.


His son, actor Vincent Cassel is married to the Italian actress
Monica Bellucci.


In his book "A mes amours" (To My Loved Ones) published in 2004,
Cassel wrote about the film directors that he had worked with and
singled out US dancer Fred Astaire as a major source of
inspiration.


Culture Minister Renaud Donnedieu de Vabres praised Cassel as "a
perfect example of an accomplished artist whose aura was as
refined as it was popular."


"This is one of our favorite faces who has passed away, a
comedian and infinitely seductive man whose talent shined on the
artistic scene for more than 50 years of a beautiful and great
career," he said.

