

The brother of a Romanian woman who may have been kidnapped by
North Korea visited Japan on Friday to seek help from families
whose relatives were snatched by the communist state.


Japan has campaigned strenuously against North Korea over the
kidnappings and has tried to raise international awareness to the
issue.


Gabriel Bumbea, 39, said he wanted to work with the Japanese
families to learn more about his sister Doina, who went missing
in 1978 from Italy.


"The wishes of my family are the same as yours," Bumbea said at a
gathering with the Japanese families.


Bumbea is set to meet with Charles Jenkins, 67, a US army
deserter who spent four decades in North Korea before settling in
Japan in 2004 with his wife Hitomi Soga, a victim of kidnapping
by the North.


After leaving the North, Jenkins reported that he saw a Romanian
woman -- speculated to be Doina -- married to another US deserter
along with a kidnapped Thai woman.


The most famous kidnap victim is Megumi Yokota, who was a 13
-year-old schoolgirl when she was hauled into a North Korean ship
on Japan's coast in 1977.


Her father Shigeru Yokota, who heads a Japanese group of victims'
families, pledged to help Bumbea.


"We are in the same situation where we have had our family
members kidnapped by North Korea," Yokota said.


"We must put our efforts together to solve this problem," he
said.


In September 2002, North Korean leader Kim Jong-Il admitted to
kidnapping 13 Japanese in the 1970s and 1980s to train spies in
Japanese language and culture.


Pyongyang has insisted that eight of them were dead, but Tokyo
believes more Japanese nationals were kidnapped and are still
alive in the North.


Japan has imposed sweeping economic sanctions on the North and
refused to loosen them until the kidnapping row is resolved.

