

Indonesian police have arrested and charged two senior executives
from a Singapore granite mining company with environmental
damage, a report said Friday.


The pair from PT Karimun Granite allegedly destroyed 19.7
hectares (48.66 acres) of protected forest during mining on the
northern Karimun islands, near the city-state, Kompas newspaper
said.


The arrests come amid strained relations between the two
countries following an Indonesian ban on sand exports to
resource-poor Singapore in January.


Indonesia was concerned massive sand quarrying would lead to
environmental problems, the disappearance of small outlying
islands and erosion of its maritime borders.


Indonesian authorities followed up the ban last month by
detaining tugboats and barges bound for Singapore loaded with
granite, a key ingredient for the city- state's booming
construction sector. There is no ban on granite exports.


PT Karimun Granite, a subsidiary of Singapore-based Hong Leong
Asia, operates quarry mines on Karimun and other islands that
reportedly supply much of Singapore's construction needs.


Provincial police chief detective Basari Panjaitan said the pair,
which the newspaper did not name, are suspected of violating a
1997 environment and a 1999 forestry law.


A police spokesman for the province Friday declined to confirm
the report. Eight companies, including PT Karimun Granite, mine
granite on islands bordering Singapore, a local mining official
said, with an annual production of some 12 million tonnes.


The report quoted the head of local non-governmental
environmental group Karimun Hijau saying some mining in the area
had damaged at least 50 hectares of protected forests.

