

Chinese share prices closed 3.92 percent higher Friday as
concerns about a possible fresh round of economic cooling
measures eased despite the release of very strong growth figures,
dealers said.


They said shares bounced back strongly as investors snapped up
financial and property stocks after the market lost about 4.5
percent Thursday in nervous trade ahead of the release of China's
first quarter economic growth data.


The figures, released immediately after the close Thursday,
showed China's economy grew 11.1 percent in the first quarter of
2007, picking up sharply from 10.4 percent in the last three
months of 2006.


Analyst had expected about 11 percent growth as the economy runs
ahead even faster despite a several moves this year to keep
economic growth at a more sustainable pace.


Even though a new round of tightening is now widely expected as
the governments try to cool the economy, investors remain buoyant
given the current momentum in the bourse that has seen share
prices rise about 180 percent since January last year.


The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index, which covers both A- and
B-shares listed on the Shanghai Stock Exchange, closed up 135.19
points at 3,584.20, after trading between 3,460.90 and 3,591.46.
Turnover was 156.13 billion yuan (20 billion dollars).


The key index rose 1.87 percent for the week.


The Shanghai A-share Index was up 141.94 points or 3.92 percent
at 3,766.84 on turnover of 155.10 billion yuan and the Shenzhen
A-share Index was up 46.09 points or 4.58 percent at 1,052.17 on
turnover of 84.28 billion yuan.

