

Roger Federer pounded home the 500th victory of his career on
Friday, crushing his perennial victim David Ferrer 6-4, 6-0 in
the quarter-finals of the Monte Carlo Masters.


The Swiss top seed still had to shake out some early jitters as
the pair produced three consecutive breaks of serve midway
through the opening set.


But once Federer got on track, the ten-time Grand Slam winner was
untouchable, breaking his Spanish opponent for 5-4 and serving
out the first set after 37 minutes.


Federer swept easily through the second to set up a semi-final
against either two-time former champion Juan Carlos Ferrer or
French hero Richard Gasquet.


Defending champion Rafael Nadal was later due to bring his Open
Era record 64-match winning streak on clay into the quarters
against German qualifier Philipp Kohlschreiber.


Federer got through in 58 minutes as he raised his career prize
money total past 30 million dollars. He has now beaten Ferrer in
all six of their matches without the loss of a set.


The top seed improved to 17-2 on the season as memories of back-
to-back hardcourt defeats last month against Guillermo Canas
begin to ease slightly.


Czech tenth seed Tomas Berdych woke up to sweep the last dozen
games as he overhauled Sweden's Robin Soderling 5-7, 6-3, 6-0 to
reach the last four,


Soderling went into the contest leading the series 2-1.


"It's step by step," the winner said of his recovery. "The start
wasn't so good, but then things changed.


"I'm really happy that I can sit here and trying to prepare for
tomorrow's semi- finals."


Berdych lifted a Masters Series title last November, winning in
Paris. He owns an ATP clay trophy from Palermo as well as three
at the lower level.

