

The BBC has stopped showing video clips which show Virginia Tech
gunman Cho Seung-Hui, who shot 32 people dead before killing
himself, brandishing guns and railing against his victims, it
said Friday.


In a blog entry on the corporation's website, Peter Horrocks,
head of television news, said it would stop showing "moving
images" from the video, which also showed Cho putting a gun to
his head and a knife to his neck.


A spokeswoman for the BBC confirmed that the decision was
implemented at midnight (2300 GMT) Thursday. The footage was
taken off air after a day in which it featured prominently on its
News 24 channel and terrestrial bulletins.


"From 24 hours after our original transmission, we will not use
moving images or actuality from the video," Horrocks wrote.


"Stills from the video may be used but we will exercise restraint
over excessive use of the more alarming images."


A spokesman for Sky News, the main competitor to BBC News 24 in
rolling news, said it would continue to show the video but
reserved the right to change this decision later.


"There's no change in our editorial line -- we exercise editorial
judgement as a story develops," he added.


For the BBC, Horrocks said the corporation had tried to
"contextualise" clips with comments from experts about the
killer's state of mind.


"We have not replayed large chunks of the video endlessly on News
24 or BBC World," he wrote.


"We are well aware of the concern that the video may lead others
to copy or emulate him... however, given that the video is
already widely available, we had to judge whether withholding the
video from BBC audiences was the appropriate thing to do.


"We decided that playing short clips, responsibly contextualised,
could aid understanding of the story."


In practice, the story was dropping down the news agenda across
Britain's media Friday as families held the first funerals of
victims and Virginia's governor named a panel to probe Monday's
massacre.

