

Chinese share prices closed 3.92 percent higher Friday as
concerns about a possible fresh round of economic cooling
measures eased despite the release of very strong growth figures,
dealers said.


They said shares bounced back strongly as investors snapped up
financial, property and steel stocks after the market lost 4.5
percent Thursday in nervous trade ahead of the release of China's
first quarter economic growth data.


The figures, released immediately after the close Thursday,
showed China's economy grew 11.1 percent in the first quarter of
2007, picking up sharply from 10.4 percent in the last three
months of 2006.


Analyst had expected about 11 percent growth as the economy runs
ahead even faster despite several moves this year to keep growth
at a more sustainable pace.


Even though a fresh round of tightening is now widely expected as
the government tries to cool the economy, investors remain
buoyant given the current momentum that has seen share prices
rise about 180 percent since January last year.


The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index, which covers both A- and
B-shares listed on the Shanghai Stock Exchange, closed up 135.19
points at 3,584.20, after trading between 3,460.90 and 3,591.46.
Turnover was 156.13 billion yuan (20 billion dollars).


The key index rose 1.87 percent for the week.


The Shanghai A-share Index was up 141.94 points or 3.92 percent
at 3,766.84 on turnover of 155.10 billion yuan and the Shenzhen
A-share Index added 46.09 points or 4.58 percent at 1,052.17 on
turnover of 84.28 billion yuan.


Dealers said investors were most nervous about a potential
interest rate hike but even if regulators were to press ahead
with the measure, the impact on share prices would be limited.


"The market saw a strong technical rebound as investors returned
after the rumour of an interest rate hike (Thursday) did not come
true, with the fundamentals remaining solid on robust economic
growth and improved corporate profits," said Wang Jun, analyst at
Merchants Securities.


Zhang Yi, an analyst at Yibang Investment, said: "The effect on
the economy would be for an interest rate hike will cool
investment growth. In terms of its effect on the stock market, a
rate hike will produce further pressure for more yuan
appreciation that might attract more funds into stocks."


Industrial Bank jumped 2.12 yuan or 7.09 percent to 32.04, CITIC
Securities added 2.79 yuan or 5.88 percent to 50.27 yuan and
Shanghai Pudong Development Bank was up 0.92 yuan or 3.40 percent
at 27.95.


Liuzhou Iron and Steel was up its 10 percent daily limit at 25.73
yuan after it said it swung back to profit for the first quarter.


Angang New Steel rose 1.03 yuan or 6.37 percent to 17.20.


Shanghai New Huangpu Real Estate gained 1.34 yuan or 7.68 percent
at 18.78 yuan, while COFCO Property jumped 0.96 yuan or 5.82
percent to 17.45 after forecasting a 200 percent year-on-year
profit increase in the first half.


China's most famous brewer Tsingtao rose 0.56 yuan or 3.0 percent
to 19.23 yuan after its 2006 results.


The Shanghai B-share Index was up 8.67 points at 201.30 on
turnover of 1.03 billion dollars and the Shenzhen B-share Index
rose 22.10 points at 558.71 on turnover of 881.40 million Hong
Kong dollars (114 million dollars).

