

Zimbabwe's embattled President Robert Mugabe won a show of
support from neighbouring Zambia with its vice-president calling
him one of the world's great leaders, state media in Harare
reported Friday.


In comments carried by the Herald newspaper, Rupiah Banda said
Mugabe had shown courage by embarking on his controversial land
reform programme in the face of Western criticism and any
problems in Zimbabwe should be resolved among Africans.


"We are proud to stand in front of the world and say this is our
brother and that any problems here or in Zambia can be solved by
ourselves within the context of our continent and our
organisation," Banda said after meeting with Mugabe on Thursday.


"Zimbabwe is a sovereign state which should be respected by all
and that within its sovereignty, its people decide who is their
leader and as far as we are concerned, right here (pointing at
Mugabe), we have one of the most outstanding leaders in the world
and in Africa."


Banda's words of praise are in contrast to recent comments from
Zambian President Levy Mwanawasa who has compared the situation
in Zimbabwe to the sinking of the Titanic.


Banda is seen as close to Zambia's founding president Kenneth
Kaunda who recently warned against the "demonisation" of his old
ally Mugabe.


South African President Thabo Mbeki was recently tasked by
regional heads of state to help resolve the divisions between
Mugabe government and the opposition Movement for Democratic
Change after recent attacks on MDC leaders.


Zimbabwe is currently in the throes of an economic meltdown which
has seen inflation surge towards the 2,000 percent mark.


Western critics have traced the decline of the economy to the
launch of the land reform programme in 2000 which saw thousands
of white-owned farms seized by the state.

