

ECB president Jean-Claude Trichet reiterated on Friday that
excessive exchange rate volatility is "undesirable", as the euro
flirted with all-time highs against the dollar and the yen.


"Excessive volatility and disorderly movements in exchange rates
are undesirable for economic growth," he told journalists after a
meeting with finance ministers from the 13-nation eurozone.


The ministers were meeting in Berlin as the euro hit the highest
point since December 2004 and nearing its all-time record against
the US currency of 1.3666 dollars.


The prospect of higher interest rates in the eurozone has driven
the euro higher against other major currencies as many investors
borrow in low interest rate currencies like the yen for higher-
yielding euro-denominated investments.


However, Trichet sounded a note of caution about such so-called
carry trades, warning: "Exchange markets should be aware that
there are two-way risks to any bet."


With the Japanese currency hovering near an all-time low against
the euro, Trichet also stressed that the improving prospects of
the Japanese economy should be reflected in the strength of the
country's economy.


"We believe the Japanese economy is on a sustainable recovery
path and that the exchange rate should reflect these economic
fundamentals," he said.


Trichet also said that the ministers had "noted with interest"
that US authorities had "confirmed that a strong dollar is in the
interest of the US economy."


US authorities have been largely silent about the dollar's slide
against the euro and the British pound, although the US Treasury
has not changed its long- standing public mantra that a strong
dollar is in the nation's interest.

