

Former Gucci creative director Tom Ford is set to open his first
stand-alone store in New York on Thursday, three years after
leaving the fashion giant credited with turning the group around.


The up-market Madison Avenue store in Manhattan will sell luxury
men's ready to wear and tailored suiting, shirts, shoes and
accessories.


The boutique, which is a collaboration with Ermenegildo Zegna, is
spread over almost 1,000 square meters (10,000 square feet) and
is billed as offering the height of luxury and personalized
service.


"I really want just beautiful quality, beautiful fabrics and
beautiful cuts, and then I want to shop in an environment that is
very service geared," Ford said in a recent interview with
fashion industry Bible Women's Wear Daily.


"I think we're going to be luring people from several different
competitors," he told the newspaper.


"Some will have had their own tailors, some might have been
shopping at the top end of Ralph (Lauren) or Armani, others might
have been shopping even at Brioni and others might be new
customers," he continued.


"I hate to make this sound like I'm stealing everyone's
customers. I'm not necessarily, but we all are fishing in the
same pond."


Ford's ready to wear suits are expected to start at around 3,000
dollars, with bespoke tailoring starting at 5,000.


"It is a different time now," Ford said of his latest venture.


"This is where I am now. I am 45 years old, not 33, as I was at
Gucci. We are living in an era where we have gone through all
this disposable fashion, so what I am craving now is really
something chic," he said.


He is expected to offer tailored women's suits in the coming
months.


Additional stores are planned for London, Milan, Hong Kong, Tokyo
and Los Angeles over the next few years, according to his
company's website.

