

Ecuador's President Rafael Correa has declared the renowned
Galapagos islands at risk and may impose restrictions on tourism,
flights and residency to prevent further ecological damage to the
area.


The president's order on Tuesday came as a delegation from the
United Nations Education, Scientific and Cultural Association
(UNESCO) prepared to issue findings on the state of the
archipelago, a home to rare species and a major tourist
attraction.


In explaining the move, Correa said that the required course of
action was clear and said "to assume our responsibilities we do
not need studies from some international organization."


He added: "We ourselves are declaring the Galapagos at risk."


The islands "are in imminent ecological danger" and measures need
to be taken to protect the delicate equilibrium of species living
in the National Galapagos Park and the marine reserve, the
president said in a statement.


The archipelago, with unique flora and fauna including giant
tortoises and marine iguanas, inspired British naturalist Charles
Darwin's theory of evolution.


But the islands -- located some 1,000 kilometers (621 miles) off
the coast of Ecuador -- have come under threat from a booming
tourism industry, a growing local population and the introduction
of outside species.


To protect the area, the president said he was considering a
possible temporary suspension on new permits for tourism, flights
and residency permits.


The government measures would also include a census of the
islands which host a significant illegal population, the
statement said.


For three decades, UNESCO has included the Galapagos islands on a
list of World Heritage sites and has closely monitored the area's
ecosystem.

