

Australia coach John Buchanan has enlisted British Olympic rowing
champion Sir Stephen Redgrave to give a pep-talk to his World Cup
winners.


Australia, bidding for a hat-tick of World Cup titles, already
have one foot in the semi-finals with a maximum eight points in
the Super Eights stage.


"The Australian coach has invited five-time Olympic rowing
champion Sir Redgrave to address the players on the pressures of
expectation that will accompany them through the remainder of
their quest for an unprecedented third consecutive World Cup,"
reported the Sydney Morning Herald.


Redgrave won a gold medal at five consecutive Olympic Games from
1984 to 2000, as well as an additional bronze medal in 1988 and
is hailed as Britain's greatest Olympian.


"Redgrave happens to be holidaying with his family in the same
Barbados hotel where the Australians are staying ahead of their
Super Eights game against Ireland on Friday," said the report.


"He agreed to talk to the cricketers as they near the business
end of their campaign and told them how, in the second half of
his career, he made a conscious effort to create an aura about
himself to maintain an edge over rivals such as Australian James
Tomkins."


After facing Ireland, Australia's last two Super Eights matches
are against their closest rivals for the title - Sri Lanka (April
16) and New Zealand (April 20) both in Grenada.


Australia now have a sequence of 23 wins in the World Cup. Their
last defeat in a World Cup match was at the hands of Pakistan
which came at Leeds, England in the 1999 tournament

