

German international striker Miroslav Klose was backed by team-
mate Torsten Frings on Wednesday to break his goal drought and
put Werder Bremen into the UEFA Cup semi-finals with a win over
Alkmaar on Thursday.


Bremen go into their home leg on the back of a 0-0 draw from last
week's match in the Netherlands and a win at the Weserstadion
would book them a place in the last four.


But vastly-experienced striker Klose, who won the golden boot at
last year's World Cup and has scored 33 international goals in 67
games, must break his duck having gone 1122 minutes without a
goal.


"Once he gets his first goal, more are sure to follow", said
midfielder Frings about his team-mate, who is being heavily-
courted by Italian giants Juventus to join them next season.


If Klose can find the back of the net, it would divert attention
away from the Bremen defence left reeling from the loss of
international defender Per Mertesacker's knee injury.


The 22-year-old is out for the rest of the season after injuring
his right knee in last weekend's 1-0 Bundesliga win over
Nuremburg.


His absence could hamper Bremen's title challenge as they look to
make up two points on leaders FC Schalke 04 with six games to
play.


Mertesacker has made 33 appearances for his side this season and
scored four goals and Bremen's manager Klaus Allofs was cautious
about his side's chances against the Dutchmen without their star
defender.


"The 0-0 draw wasn't bad for us, but it is still a dangerous
result and the game is wide open," he said.


But Bremen goalkeeper Tim Wiese says the team must ignore the
loss of Mertesacker and take confidence in their own ability
against Alkmaar.


"We are so close to a semi-final place, but we have enough good
people in defence, so I am confident we can do the job even
without Per," he said.

