

The White House on Wednesday called it "troubling" that top US
lawmakers including House Speaker Nancy Pelosi may be considering
a trip to Iran in the wake of their controversial visit to Syria.


"On a day when the US military reports additional evidence of
Iran's meddling in Iraq with weapons and training that are being
used to kill our soldiers, it's troubling that some Democrats are
making travel arrangements to visit Tehran," said spokeswoman
Dana Perino.


She spoke after Democratic Representative Tom Lantos, who
accompanied Pelosi to meet Syrian President Bashar al-Assad over
White House objections last week, said he was ready to go to
Tehran and suggested that the speaker was as well.


"Speaking just for myself, I'm ready to go," Lantos told
reporters here late Tuesday. "And knowing the speaker, I think
she might be."


"Because however objectionable, unfair and inaccurate many of
(Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's) statements are, it is
important that we have a dialogue with him," Lantos, a Holocaust
survivor, said.


Pelosi, also at the press conference, did not contradict Lantos,
but she slammed Ahmadinejad's previous denial of the Holocaust as
"so repulsive that they are outside the circle of civilized human
behavior."


She also noted that Lantos, the chairman of the important House
Foreign Affairs Committee, had called for dialogue with the
Islamic republic.


"I think that speaks volumes about the importance of dialogue,"
she said.


The White House last week repeatedly blasted Pelosi's trip to
Syria while muting criticism of visits to Damascus by several of
US President George W. Bush's Republican allies.

