

Dozens of Czech Roma protested outside the government's Prague
headquarters on Wednesday to demand the resignation of the deputy
prime minister for disparaging remarks he made about their
community.


Jiri Cunek, leader of the second largest party in the government
coalition sparked anger from the Roma community when details of
written answers he gave to readers of a popular Czech newspaper
were printed recently.


When asked by a reader of the Blesk daily how he could "benefit
from handouts like the gypsies," Cunek replied: "You have to get
a suntan, make a din with the whole family, light fires in the
street and then some politicians will take note and take up your
cause".


Cunek tried to speak with the protesters, some of whose banners
read "You are the shame of the government and of democracy" and
"Down with the racists in the government," but his words were
drowned out by calls for him to go.


One gypsy leader, Milan Scuka, the head of the "Roma parliament,"
told the protestors who came from all over the country that Czech
society bore part of the blame for the community's problems.


"We know very well that there are good and bad gypsies, but Czech
society is partly responsible. We have to resolve these problems
together: we should not be thrown into a bin like rubbish."


The Christian Democrat leader is a controversial figure, not
least during last year when he forced gypsies from the centre of
the town where he was mayor.


More recently, he has been accused by the police of taking bribes
from a property company. His refusal to resign from the
government threatens the collapse of the fragile three-way
coalition comprising the rightwing Civic Democrats, Christian
Democrats and Green Party.


It is estimated that around 300,000 gypsies make up the 10.2
million strong Czech population.

