

The .eu online domain name is enjoying a runaway success in
cyberspace with over 2.5 million registered users during its
first year, the European Commission said.


Booming demand for .eu Internet addresses has made them the third
most popular in Europe and the seventh most widely used in the
world, according to the European Union's executive arm.


"After just one year .eu has become a well-established part of
Europe's cyberspace," EU Information Society and Media
Commissioner Viviane Reding enthused.


As of April 7 last year, individuals in the European Union have
been able to register to use the .eu online identity tag although
businesses and public bodies got a head-start in the preceding
months.


Since then, the greatest number of .eu registrations have come
from Germany with 31 percent of the total, followed by Britain
with 17 percent and The Netherlands with 12 percent.


The .eu tag is not intended to replace the national identifiers
used by the EU's member states such as Britain's .uk, France's
.fr or Germany's .de, or indeed wider identifiers such as .com or
.org.


Despite .eu's success, national identifiers continue to remain
popular, with registrations still growing although not as fast as
for the Europe-wide addresses.


The Commission said the Internet label was also having success
with well-known brands, citing the examples of Air France,
Versace, Dexia, Illy, Milka and even Greenpeace which have set up
.eu sites.


Even non-EU companies such as Lexus and Sony had opted for .eu
sites for their advertising campaigns in Europe, the Commission
noted.

