

Some 70 Kurds began a hunger strike Wednesday in front of the
Council of Europe over allegations that Kurdish leader Abdullah
Ocalan is being poisoned in his prison cell in Turkey.


The group want a team of independent doctors to investigate the
claims made last month in Rome by Ocalan's lawyers that their
client was being poisoned.


Turkey's prosecutors office have already dismissed the claims,
citing toxicology tests carried out by the three experts sent by
the Istanbul coroner's office that showed no evidence of
poisoning.


But Ahmet Gulabi Dere of the National Congress of Kurdistan (KNK)
told AFP they wanted the Council of Europe's Committee for the
Prevention of Torture to send a team of independent experts.


Until that happened, he said, 17 of the hunger strikers were
committed to hold out for an indeterminate period.


The hunger strikers include Remzi Kartal, the Kurdish ex-deputy
of the Party for Democracy (DEP) and a founding member of the
KNK. They will stay at the Franco- Kurdish cultural centre in
Strasbourg.


About a hundred Kurdish activists including the hunger strikers
demonstrated peacefully in front of the Council of Europe
building Wednesday.


Ocalan's lawyers say the 58-year-old has been experiencing
breathing and skin problems, as well as pains severe enough to
interrupt his sleep.


The leader of the outlawed Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), he has
been serving a life sentence for treason since 1999.


The PKK has waged a bloody separatist campaign in the mainly
Kurdish southeast since 1984. It is listed as a terrorist group
by Turkey, the United States and the European Union.


Representatives from the Council of Europe have visited Ocalan
several times and found his health to be satisfactory, although
they recommended giving him some relief from his isolation.

