

Embattled Pro Tour team Unibet.com were officially warned they
had broken Belgian law Wednesday, just as several of their riders
fell victim to the cobbles in the Gent-Wevelgem semi-classic.


The Belgian-Swedish outfit, who are sponsored by an internet
betting company, had initially been caught up in a dispute
between race organisers and the sport's world ruling body the UCI
over the number of teams in the Pro Tour.


But lately the team has fallen victim to strict laws in France
and Belgium governing betting. Internet betting is illegal in
France and Belgium. The team was forbidden from racing the Paris-
Nice last month.


And they will also miss out on Sunday's third one-day classic of
the season Paris-Roubaix, the semi-classic Fleche Wallonne and
Liege-Bastogne-Liege, which take place last this month.


All four races are run by ASO - which also runs the Tour de
France - who said the exclusions were due to the laws governing
betting sponsorship and advertising.


On Wednesday representatives from the Belgian gaming commission
heaped further trouble on the team, whom they issued with a
written warning because they were competing with their Unibet
cycling jerseys.


The commission, which had also warned the team after Sunday's
Tour of Flanders, said the team had broken Belgian gaming laws.


Unibet appealed the decision not to invite them to Paris-Nice but
that was rejected in a French court.


Unibet's Jimmy Casper appeared worst off from among the numerous
riders who crashed in Gent-Wevelgem, the Frenchman sustaining
face, hand and shoulder injuries when he came down hard on the
cobbles.

