

Sweltering under the summer sun could become a regular feature of
European life as global warming leads to frequent heatwaves,
climate change experts warned here on Wednesday.


"We might have every other year a summer as hot or hotter as the
summer 2003," said Andreas Fischlin of the Swiss Federal
Institute of Technology in Zurich, and coordinating lead author
for the ecosystems chapter of the latest intergovernmental panel
on climate change report.


The heatwave of August 2003 killed some 70,000 people across
Europe, mostly elderly victims of dehydration.


"Some summers are likely to be much hotter even than in 2003
until the end of the century," said Martin Beniston from the
University of Geneva, and an IPCC report contributing author.


However future heatwaves need not be so deadly if authorities and
individuals take sufficient precautionary measures, which could
cut fatalities by 80 percent from the 2003 levels, he said.


"It is expected that additional death numbers can be reduced
through adaptation," he added.


The experts were commenting on the IPCC's latest report which was
presented to the public last week in Brussels.


The press conference in Geneva was specifically focused on the
impact of climate change on Europe and the Alps in particular.


The experts warned that glaciers will experience a "substantial
retreat" in the coming century, and that the duration of snow
cover is expected to decrease by several weeks for each Celsius
degree of temperature increase in the Alps.


Some 60 percent of Alpine plant life is threatened with
extinction by the century's end as temperatures are seen rising
by between 1.5 and 2.5 percent from 1990 levels, the report said.


Away from the snow-capped peaks, Europe's coastal dwellers are
also at risk as climate change causes sea levels to rise, the
IPCC warned.


This rise is likely to threaten up to 2.5 million extra people
annually, with others at risk from more winter floods in maritime
regions.

