

A top Sudanese official said Wednesday that Chad's apology for
crossing into Sudanese territory in pursuit of rebels, leading to
deadly border clashes was not enough.


"Apologies are not enough... there must be guarantees that such
an aggression should not take place in the future," Foreign Under
Secretary Mutref Sikkeik told Sudan Television.


"Some of our troops and civilians have been killed or injured and
property of civilians has been looted... We cannot be satisfied
with apologies and we will therefore lodge a complaint against
Chad with the UN and other regional organisations," Siddeik said.


Defence Minister Abdel Rahim Mohammed Hussein vowed that his
armed forces were capable of "protecting the country and taking
all measures for repulsing any aggression."


Speaking at the National Assembly, Hussein accused Chad of
harbouring and training Darfur rebel movements.


Sudan said 17 of its soldiers were killed in the fighting on
Monday. Chadian officials said 30 were killed on both sides after
its forces pursued rebels across the border and ran into regular
Sudanese troops.


A senior Chadian foreign ministry official told AFP on condition
of anonymity that Foreign Minister Ahmat Allami had received
Sudanese ambassador Abdallah Acheikh in N'Djamena and "expressed
the regrets of the Chadian government over the incident."


But Sudanese President Omar al-Beshir had a more toned-down
approach, saying he was counting on South African mediation to
help contain tensions with Chad.


Beshir, speaking after talks with South African President Thabo
Mbeki who often plays a peacemaking role, said Mbeki was in touch
with Chadian officials to help build bridges.


Libyan leader Moamer Kadhafi was to send an envoy, Abdel Salem
Triki, to Sudan and Chad on Wednesday for talks aimed at easing
tensions between the two countries.

