

Europe's main stock markets slipped back on Wednesday, with
trading driven by takeover news and rising oil prices, analysts
said.


London's FTSE 100 index of leading shares lost a mere 0.07
percent to 6,413.30 points, Frankfurt's DAX 30 gave up 0.20
percent to 7,152.83 points, and in Paris the CAC 40 fell by 0.25
percent to 5,751.92.


The DJ Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone blue chips eased back 0.19
percent to 4,293.20 points.


The euro stood at 1.3435 dollars.


On Wall Street, the Dow Jones Industrial Average had lost 0.61
percent to 12,497.22 points as European markets closed, and the
Nasdaq Composite Index was off by 0.54 percent at 2,464.31.


The broad Standard and Poor's 500 showed a loss of 0.48 percent
to 1,441.40 points.


Earlier in Asia, Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of
leading shares had risen by a slight 0.03 percent to finish at
17,670.07 points.


Hong Kong's key Hang Seng Index closed up 0.50 percent at
20,449.43 points as another strong finish on China's A-share
bourses helped the market reverse modest losses earlier due to
profit-taking, dealers said.


Shanghai's benchmark Shanghai Composite Index closed up 1.48
percent at 3,495.22 points.


European trading was marked by developments on the mergers and
acquisitions front.


Anglo-Swiss mining company Xstrata said it would sell its
aluminium operations to the US private equity group Apollo
Management for 1.15 billion dollars (857 million euros).


Xstrata saw its share price rally 0.80 percent to 2,779 pence in
London, while other mining shares slumped. Kazakhmys shed 3.77
percent to 1,174 pence.


In Frankfurt, Puma shares leapt 1.79 percent to 350.10 euros
after the German maker of sportsgear hinted that a higher
takeover bid from French luxury goods group PPR was possible.


On Tuesday, PPR, the owner of Gucci and Yves Saint Laurent, said
it was offering 330 euros per share or 5.3 billion euros in all
for Puma after acquiring a stake of 27.1 percent in the sports
shoe and clothing maker.


In Paris, PPR shares dived 2.05 percent to 130.30 euros even
though the group said it would not sweeten its offer for the
German company.


Back in London, shares in Alliance Boots soared 1.45 percent to
1,050 pence on the prospect of a bidding war for the group, the
biggest pharmacy chain in Europe.


Sainsbury gave up 2.32 percent to 526 pence however after the
private equity groups Blackstone, CVC and Texas Pacific Group
dropped their consortium takeover plans for the third biggest
supermarket group in Britain.


Rising oil prices helped or hurt shares depending on which side
of the pump a company was positioned.


British oil major BP gained 0.90 percent to 559.50 pence in
London and French peer Total was up by 0.67 percent to 52.87
euros in Paris.


Shares in the Polish oil group PKN Orlen surged by 2.39 percent
to 46.79 zlotys, or 12.22 euros, helping push the WIG20 index up
by 0.59 percent to a record high of 3,606.90 points in Warsaw.


British Airways lost 1.76 percent to 503.50 pence, however, while
the cruise group Carnival plunged by 2.29 percent to 2,388 pence.


In Amsterdam, the AEX index closed 0.38 percent lower at 522.10
points, the Swiss SMI slipped by 0.16 percent to 9,136.09, in
Milan the SP/Mib was off by 0.20 percent 42,805, in Madrid the
Ibex-35 was essentially unchanged at 14,997.6 points and in
Brussels the Bel-20 edged 0.17 percent lower to 4,587.70.

