

Russian security council secretary Igor Ivanov held talks with
Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert on Wednesday, with Israel
saying Moscow also did not want an Iran armed with nuclear
weapons.


"Mr. Olmert and Mr. Ivanov reaffirmed that Israel and Russia are
opposed to Iran being able to provide itself with nuclear
weapons," Olmert's spokeswoman Miri Eisin told AFP.


Iran has repeatedly stressed that it is not seeking nuclear
weapons and that its enrichment programme is purely for peaceful
use. Israel is believed to be the only nuclear-armed power in the
Middle East with some 200 nuclear warheads.


"Mr. Ivanov's visit is taking place within the framework of
reinforcing relations between the Russian and Israeli security
councils," Eisin added.


Moscow has close relations with Tehran and is building Iran's
Bushehr nuclear power plant, but it joined in backing UN Security
Council sanctions on Iran over its refusal to halt its enrichment
programme.


Israel sees Iran as its main enemy, especially in the face of
calls by President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad for the Jewish state to be
"wiped off the map".


Earlier, Ivanov discussed with Israeli Foreign Minister Tzipi
Livni the fate of an Israeli soldier captured last June 25 by a
Palestinian commando, and two other seized on July 12 by
Lebanon's Shiite Hezbollah movement.


The June seizure led to a massive Israeli incursion into the Gaza
Strip and the deaths of some 400 Palestinians, while the July
capture provoked a 34-day war between Israel and Hezbollah in
which more than 1,200 Lebanese -- mostly civilians and one-third
of them children -- were killed.


Negotiations are currently being held to try to arrange a swap
involving some 450 Palestinians for the Israeli corporal Gilid
Shalit.

