

The United States has delayed imposing unilateral sanctions
against Sudan to give UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon a last
chance to convince Khartoum to allow a UN peacekeeping force into
its war-torn Darfur region, a senior US official said Wednesday.


Andrew Natsios, President George W. Bush's special envoy to
Sudan, said Ban had recently asked for an additional two to four
weeks to pressure Sudan's government to lift its opposition to
deployment of the UN force of some 20,000 troops.


"I think we need to give him a chance -- that means if he asks
for a two- to four-week delay we need to give him that," Natsios
told a Senate hearing.


The US sanctions package now on Bush's desk includes financial
actions against 29 Sudanese companies and a toughening of
implementation of existing sanctions on 130 other firms, all
linked to the Khartoum government, he said.


They would also slap travel bans and assets freezes on a Darfur
rebel leader who has been "obstructing" peace efforts and on "war
criminals" among the Sudanese government leaders he said.


Natsios said the measures would include financial steps
preventing the targeted companies, some of which are involved in
Sudan's oil industry, from doing business in US dollars.


"The sanctioned companies, in fact, will have some of their
operations paralyzed," he said.


"We believe it will have an effect on the economy, a substantial
effect," he said.


Natsios declined to name any of the new companies or individuals
to be hit by the sanctions and would not discuss in public
possible military actions the US could propose to force
Khartoum's hand and end violence against civilians in Darfur,
saying it was Bush's prerogative to make such things public.


But he did say "all military options are on the table" in the
administration's deliberations.

