

Taiwan's independence-leaning President Chen Shui-bian on
Wednesday pledged to push for changes to the referendum laws in a
move expected to irk Beijing, which sees the island as part of
its territory.


Chen, from the ruling Democratic Progressive Party (DPP), said
restrictions under the existing laws prevented Taiwanese people
from exercising their constitutional rights.


He cited the requirement that at least 50 percent of the island's
eligible voters take part and said that should be lowered to 25
percent.


"The restrictions to the existing referendum law are
unreasonable, the screening requirements absurd, and the
threshold ultra-high," Chen said.


Taiwan enacted the law under pressure from the DPP in November
2003 to pave way for two historic votes on its relations with
China.


The referenda, the first in the island's history, were held in
conjunction with presidential elections in which Chen won a
second term, but failed because less than half of the electorate
took part.


The move angered Beijing, which considers it as a step toward
independence by Taiwan.


It sees as the island wayward province to be unified by force if
necessary.


Just 45.17 percent of eligible voters cast ballots on the first
referendum question, on building up military defences against
Chinese missiles, while 45.12 percent took part in the second, on
peace talks with the mainland.


Chen's proposed bill is not thought likely to clear the
opposition-controlled parliament, and his remarks sparked strong
criticism from the opposition.


"Apparently trying to lower the threshold of referenda is a
political gimmick aimed at next year's presidential election...it
is trying to fool people," said Wu Yu-sheng, legislator from the
leading opposition Kuomintang (KMT).

