

Wall Street shares fell sharply Wednesday as oil prices jumped on
a weak report on US inventories and after the International
Monetary Fund cut its outlook for 2007 US economic growth.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average slumped 72.73 points (0.58
percent) to 12,501.12 at 1525 GMT.


The Nasdaq composite fell 13.31 points (0.54 percent) to 2,464.30
and the Standard and Poor's 500 broad-market index retreated 6.42
points (0.44 percent) to 1,441.97.


Analysts at Briefing.com said in a note that the market was
"increasingly sensitive to weak data" and moved lower after the
IMF cut its forecast for US economic growth this year to 2.2
percent, the weakest in five years, citing a weaker housing
market than previously estimated.


Also hurting was a spike in oil prices after US data showed a
sharp drawdown in gasoline inventories.


Crude oil gained 47 cents to 62.36 dollars on the New York
Mercantile Exchange and gasoline futures hit their highest level
in eight months.


This offset a positive tone from Alcoa, the first of the major
firms to report earnings, which said profits rose to a better-
than-expected 662 million dollars.


Analysts said the market was running into some resistance after
the Dow blue- chip index posted eight consecutive winning
sessions in its best streak since 2003.


Briefing.com analyst Dick Green warned of a cautious near-term
outlook for the market after the gains of the past few weeks.


"The major indices have now reversed most of the losses incurred
in late February. This, in our opinion, reflects too much
optimism," he said.


"There are real risks on the economic, earnings, and inflation
fronts -- and all those risks have increased since mid-February.
A retreat of some degree from those levels was warranted."


Fred Dickson, market strategist at DA Davidson, was more upbeat
about the outlook.


"We continue to be modestly optimistic that the stock market will
come through first quarter earnings season in reasonably decent
shape," he said.


"The good news is that the market is holding recent gains on very
light trading volume days. The bears simply are not anxious to
take profits."


The mood was tentative ahead of the Federal Reserve release of
the minutes from its March 21 policy meeting, expected to give
the market a better idea of the thinking of Fed members on future
interest rate actions.


The Fed held rates steady last month while reaffirming that
inflation remained a key threat.


Among stocks in focus, Citigroup fell 81 cents to 51.58 dollars
after the global banking giant unveiled a restructuring plan that
will mean some 17,000 job cuts.


Alcoa rose 32 cents to 35.22 on the back of the profit report
from the aluminum giant that beat most market forecasts.


General Motors lost 80 cents to 31.69 after French magazine
Capital said the auto giant is eyeing cutting several thousand
jobs at its German affiliate Opel.


Shares in the Nasdaq stock market rose 15 cents to 29.78 on a
report that the electronic exchange is in talks to buy the
Philadelphia Stock Exchange and its options market.


Bonds firmed. The yield on the 10-year US Treasury bond eased to
4.710 percent from 4.745 percent late Tuesday and that on the
30-year bond dipped to 4.893 percent against 4.916 percent. Bond
yields and prices move in opposite directions.

