

Legendary supergroup The Beach Boys have lost a multi-million
dollar legal battle which claimed a treasure trove of memorabilia
had been stolen from the band, a statement said Wednesday.


The group accused musician Roy Sciacca, an avid collector of
music memorabilia, of plundering lyric sheets, sound recordings,
videos and photos from a warehouse in 1994.


The band's corporate entity Brother Records had sued Sciacca for
60 million dollars, alleging breach of copyright, trademark, and
right of publicity infringement. The legal challenge forced the
cancellation of an auction for the items that had been scheduled
to take place in 2005.


Sciacca insisted he had bought the items legally at auction
during the 1980s.


United States District Court Judge Manuel Real found in his
favor, ruling there was no evidence to support Brother Records'
lawsuit.


"Roy is a great admirer of The Beach Boys' works. He appreciates
their artistic and historical importance and was devastated by
the claim that he violated the Beach Boys' rights," one of
Sciacca's lawyers, Cresswell Templeton said in a statement.


"We are pleased the judge agreed with us and entered judgment in
Roy's favor, so, hopefully, he can now begin to repair his
reputation and move on with his life."


The Beach Boys, founded in California by Brian Wilson and his
brothers Dennis and Carl, along with cousin Mike Love and friend
Alan Jardine, recorded some of the most famous hits in the
history of rock music, including "Surfin USA", "Good Vibrations"
and "Fun, Fun, Fun".

