

Republican presidential hopeful John McCain on Wednesday threw
his weight behind the new US strategy in Iraq, saying it was the
right way ahead, but stressing that victory remained uncertain.


"We, who are willing to support this new strategy ... have chosen
a hard road. But it is the right road. It is necessary and just,"
McCain said in a speech at the Virginia Military Institute.


McCain is the Republican candidate most supportive of the war in
Iraq -- though he has harshly criticized President George W.
Bush's handling of it.


He has also strongly backed Bush's "surge" plan to send 25,000
extra troops to Iraq to quell sectarian violence there.


The alternative, McCain said, would be "to take advantage of the
public's frustration, accept defeat, and hope that whatever the
cost to our security the politics of defeat will work out better
for us than our opponents."


He told his audience of young cadets, or soldiers who have just
returned from Iraq, that after visiting Baghdad earlier this
month he was optimistic the additional troops were having an
effect on security in the Iraqi capital.


"We still face many difficult challenges in Iraq. That is
undeniable. But we have also made, in recent weeks, measurable
progress in establishing security in Baghdad and fighting Al-
Qaeda in Anbar province," he said.


"While these glimmers are no guarantee of success, and though
they come early in the implementation of the new strategy, I
believe they are cause for very cautious optimism."


A Vietnam War hero with an accomplished career as a lawmaker over
20 years in Congress, McCain has long been seen as a likely
favorite on the Republican side for the 2008 US presidential
race.


But in recent weeks he has scrambled to overhaul his campaign
strategy as he lags behind in fundraising and in the polls.

