

Cypriot owners of the sunken Greek cruise ship Sea Diamond said
Wednesday it believed last week's accident was caused by human
error.


"My opinion is that the accident is due to a human error ... The
boat was very secure and modern," Georges Koubenas, a Louis
Hellenic Cruise Lines executive, told a press conference.


"Seventy-five percent of maritime accidents are caused by human
error."


The Greek-flagged ship hit a charted reef near the tiny Greek
island of Santorini on April 5 and sank the following morning to
a depth of 140 metres (460 feet).


Of the ship's 1,156 passengers and 391 crew, two French tourists
-- Jean- Christophe Allain and his teenage daughter Maud -- are
still missing.


Greek authorities are also working on the theory that a piloting
error caused the crash.


The Sea Diamond's captain and five officers have been charged
with causing a shipwreck through negligence, breaching
international shipping safety regulations and polluting the
environment.


Koubenas said the ship's captain was not informed that the two
French tourists were missing until four hours after the accident,
when almost all the passengers had been evacuated.


"The captain then tried to go down to cabin 2204" where the two
were trapped, but he could not make it, Koubenas said.


Asked whether the two French citizens could have been saved if
the captain had been informed of their disappearance earlier,
Koubenas maintained that "they had no chance from the beginning
due to the list the boat developed very quickly and to the area
where the cabin was located."


Anne Allain, the wife and mother of the missing pair, did however
manage to escape the cabin, which was near the point of impact
and which was rapidly flooded.

