

Federal Reserve policymakers expressed concerns about
"uncomfortably high" inflation and softening economic conditions
but remained optimistic about improvements, minutes from last
month's meeting showed Wednesday.


The minutes from the March 20-21 Federal Open Market Committee
meeting, at which members agreed to keep interest rates steady at
5.25 percent, cited concerns on both the growth and inflation
front but showed members expected the problems to ease.


"Meeting participants agreed that, while recent economic data had
been mixed, the economy was likely to expand at a moderate pace
in coming quarter," the minutes showed.


"However, additional evidence of sluggish business investment and
recent developments in the subprime mortgage market suggested
that the downside risks relative to the expectation of moderate
growth had increased in the weeks since the January FOMC
meeting."


The March policy statement stated that inflation remained the
predominant concern for the central bank and the minutes
highlighted those worries.


"The prevailing level of inflation remained uncomfortably high,
and the latest information cast some doubt on whether core
inflation was on the expected downward path," the minutes stated.


"Most participants continued to expect that core inflation would
slow gradually, but the recent readings on inflation and
productivity growth, along with higher energy prices, had
increased the odds that inflation would fail to moderate as
expected; that risk remained the Committee's predominant
concern."

