

US President George W. Bush and UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon
on Wednesday discussed the Middle East, Iraq, and Sudan by
telephone, the White House said.


"They discussed the situation in the Middle East and Iraq, in
light of the secretary-general's recent trip to the region,"
national security spokesman Gordon Johndroe said in a statement.


"They also talked about Sudan, and President Bush emphasized the
need for greater action to resolve the crisis in Darfur," said
Johndroe.


The United States held off on a decision to impose unilateral
sanctions against Sudan last month to give UN Secretary General
Ban Ki-moon a last chance to convince Khartoum to allow UN
peacekeepers into its war-torn Darfur region, a senior US
official said Wednesday.


Andrew Natsios, Bush's special envoy to Sudan, said Washington
was on the verge of imposing financial and other sanctions
against the Sudanese at the end of last month but held off
because a US congressional delegation was in Khartoum at the
time.


Ban then asked on April 2 for an additional two to four weeks to
pressure Sudan's government to lift its opposition to deployment
of the UN force of some 20,000 troops to Darfur before turning to
sanctions.


The number two official in the US State Department, John
Negroponte, leaves for Sudan and neighboring states on Thursday.


"The president noted that the United Nations has an important
role to play on all these issues, and that the United States will
continue to support the UN in its work," said the spokesman.

