

Two infamous Sicilian mafia bosses already serving life sentences
will face trial for their alleged involvement in a quadruple
murder nearly 40 years ago, a judge ruled Wednesday.


Bernardo Provenzano, 74, arrested a year ago after more than four
decades on the run, has previously been sentenced to some 10 life
sentences.


His predecessor as mafia head, Toto Riina, 77, has been in jail
since 1993 and has been sentenced to some 15 life sentences,
mostly for murder.


Wednesday's decision by Judge Rachele Monfredi resulted from the
reopening of an investigation into the 1969 murders in Palermo
following information provided by a former mafia member. The
trial is set to begin May 28.


The judge also ordered Provenzano to stand trial on June 11 for a
separate murder committed in 1987.


The two men attended the court hearing through videoconference
links from their cells.


In 1958, at the age of 25, Provenzano was involved in the murder
of a rival mafia leader. He later went into hiding to escape an
arrest warrant for that killing.


He gained the nicknames of "the tractor" due to his ruthless
persistence, and "the accountant" because of his mastery of the
organization's finances.


Provenzano became second in command to Riina, who presided over a
series of gangland wars and killings of judges that were a
hallmark of Italian life in the 1980s.


When Riina, nicknamed "the beast," was arrested in 1993,
Provenzano became the de facto head of the mafia, and Italy's
most wanted man.


The two men are incarcerated under strict rules, including their
cells being lit 24 hours per day. They are only given rare
opportunities to see visitors and their mail is screened.

