

Egypt's upper house of parliament discussed Wednesday an official
proposal to set up for the first time an appeals process for
military tribunals used to try terrorism suspects.


Egypt's military tribunals, which try civilian suspects in
addition to military ones, have been harshly criticised by
international human rights organisations for their swift verdicts
and the lack of a right to appeal.


"The amendment to the military courts is an important step in the
path towards judicial reform and supporting the independence of
the judiciary," minister of state for parliamentary affairs,
Mufid Shehab, told the session.


A set of constitutional amendments passed last month enshrines in
the constitution the president's right to try anyone in a
military court.


The Muslim Brotherhood, the country's largest opposition group,
has in particular been targeted by the courts, with dozens of its
members convicted in the past and another 30 set to be tried
soon.


While the government is touting the new bill as a step towards
judicial reform, critics argue that civilians should not be tried
before military courts to begin with.


"Amnesty International has repeatedly called on the Egyptian
government to stop trying civilians before military courts," the
London-based watchdog said in a report published Wednesday.


"Trials before these courts violate some of the most fundamental
requirements of international law, in particular the right to a
fair and public hearing before a competent, independent and
impartial tribunal established by law," the report said.

