

In a rare admission of fallibility, the International Monetary
Fund said Wednesday its closely watched forecasts for economic
performance around the world are not always "spot on."


Attacked by some developing countries for its policy strictures,
and for failing to anticipate big events like the Asian financial
crisis a decade ago, the IMF said its job was to describe the
world economy "honestly."


"Like many forecasters, we're clearly very rarely spot on the
actual numbers," Tim Callen, head of world economic studies for
the IMF, told a news conference.


"Clearly there are times when we are too optimistic about the
global economy and times when we are too pessimistic. I think
over the last couple of years, we have actually been erring on
the side of being too pessimistic," he said.


The IMF conducts reviews every five years by outside experts into
the accuracy of the predictions given in its twice-yearly World
Economic Outlook (WEO) report, the latest issue of which was
released Wednesday.


The last review was conducted early last year by Allan
Timmermann, an economics professor at the University of
California at San Diego.


Timmermann's study suggested that "we were certainly in line with
the accuracy in the private (sector) consensus forecasts," Callen
said.


In the new WEO, the IMF projected the world economy would expand
by 4.9 percent both this year and next, compared to 5.4 percent
in 2006. A year ago, the IMF was predicting global 2006 growth of
4.9 percent.


IMF chief economist Simon Johnson said the 185-member
organization's forecasts were not the full story, highlighting
the detailed analysis it conducts in comprehensive reports like
the WEO.


Through the Fund's diverse membership, "we have some unique
insights into what's going on around the world in both big
economies and small economies," he said.


"Our mandate ... is to tell you honestly what's going on in the
global economy. If we do that right, then we're doing our job."

