

A senior US lawmaker who accompanied a controversial trip to
Syria last week suggested he and Speaker Nancy Pelosi would be
willing to visit another US foe, Iran.


Representative Tom Lantos, who accompanied Pelosi to meet Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad against strong White House objections
last week, said he would go to Tehran and thought the speaker
might also be willing to make a trip.


"Speaking just for myself, I'm ready to go," Lantos told
reporters here late Tuesday. "And knowing the speaker, I think
she might be."


"Because however objectionable, unfair and inaccurate many of
(President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's) statements are, it is important
that we have a dialogue with him," Lantos, a Holocaust survivor,
said.


Pelosi, also at the press conference, did not contradict Lantos,
but she slammed Ahmadinejad's previous denial of the Holocaust as
"so repulsive that they are outside the circle of civilized human
behavior."


She also noted that Lantos, the chairman of the important House
Foreign Affairs Committee, had called for dialogue with the
Islamic republic.


"I think that speaks volumes about the importance of dialogue,"
she said.


She praised the lawmaker for having brought "great experience,
knowledge and judgment" to their trip to Syria, Israel, the
Palestinian Territories and Saudi Arabia.


The trip stirred controversy, with President George W. Bush and
other administration officials lashing out at Pelosi for
undermining the government's tough line against the Syrian
regime, which the United States accuses of supporting terrorism.


A trip to Iran would likely draw similar attacks, as Washington
has steadfastly resisted bilateral talks with Tehran, with which
it severed official relations in 1980.


Lantos said he has been seeking a visa to Iran for more than a
decade.

