

Chad's President Idriss Deby Itno Wednesday pledged to improve
relations with eastern neighbour Sudan following deadly border
clashes, a Libyan mediator said.


"I am happy that President Deby assured me he would stick to the
Tripoli accord," Abdel Salem Triki, number two in Libya's foreign
ministry in charge of African affairs, told reporters after
meeting the Chadian leader.


"Chad is committed to improving and normalising relations with
Sudan," said Triki, who had been sent by Libyan leader Moamer
Kadhafi to try to get the fractious neighbours to mend fences
after the latest upsurge in violence.


Triki's visit comes two days after violent clashes between Chad
and Sudanese forces across the increasingly volatile border
between the two countries.


Sudan said 17 of its soldiers were killed in the fighting.
Chadian officials said 30 were killed on both sides after its
forces pursued rebels across the border and ran into regular
Sudanese troops.


The Libyan government has tried to mediate between the two
countries in recent months by posting Libyan monitors on the
border and calling on both Chad and Sudan to respect agreements
signed in Tripoli in 2006.


But the two countries routinely trade accusations, with Chad
complaining that the Sudanese-backed Janjaweed militia raids
villages near the border and Sudan accusing Chad of violating
international agreements.


Triki, who was due to arrive in Sudan later Wednesday, however
admitted that "there were certain steps that have to be taken" by
the belligerents, adding that Deby and Sudanese President Omar
al-Bashir should hold talks.


Sudan on Wednesday toned down a thinly veiled threat to
retaliate, saying it was determined build bridges with Chad.


Foreign Minister Lam Akol said Khartoum was "firmly committed to
finding a peaceful solution to this problem," after talks with
South African President Thabo Mbeki, who frequently plays a
peacemaking role on the continent.

