

Rugby union's top European club tournament will go ahead next
season although the competition is still likely to be missing
major clubs.


European Rugby Cup (ERC) shareholders have defied the recent
boycott by some of England and France's top clubs by announcing
after meetings here on Wednesday that a European club rugby
tournament will be held.


It will include teams from all six of the current participating
nations - England, France, Wales, Scotland, Ireland and Italy -
although its structure has yet to be discussed and agreed upon by
ERC board members.


Representatives from the six participating unions, plus English
and Italian club representatives and a regional representative
from Wales, attended the meeting.


Currently, England's Premiership clubs and leading French sides
will not participate in the European Cup or European Challenge
Cup next term.


They withdrew last week, blaming the Rugby Football Union's
refusal to hand English clubs half their shares in ERC, though,
many believe the real reason for the French boycott is down to
the fact of fixture congestion following the World Cup which they
are hosting in September and October.


The sport's world governing body the International Rugby Board
(IRB) offered to allow the French to continue their championship
during the World Cup - which they normally don't allow - but were
turned down because of pressure from the broadcaster who hold the
rights to the domestic championship.


Both the French and the English clubs have been blasted by the
IRB president Dr Syd Millar, with the former Irish rugby great
saying their decision was shameful and egotistical.


If the likes of Leicester, Wasps and Gloucester do not return to
the fold, it means clubs from National League One such as
Doncaster, Rotherham and Cornish Pirates would provide probable
English representation in Europe next season.

