

South Africa is to send a delegation of parliamentary and legal
experts to La Paz to help Bolivia draw up a new constitution,
Deputy President Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka said Wednesday.


Speaking after talks with her Bolivian counterpart Alvaro Garcia
Linera, Mlambo- Ngcuka said useful lessons could be learned from
South Africa's experience of penning a new constitution a decade
ago after the collapse of the apartheid system.


"Some of the issues with which Bolivia is dealing regarding the
establishment of a constitutional state are similar to those we
in South Africa faced," Mlambo- Ngcuka told reporters.


"We have therefore decided to make our own government and
parliamentary experts and those from the broader academic
community available to the Bolivian government to assist them in
overcoming some of these challenges."


A Bolivian delegation had also been invited to South Africa, she
added.


Leftist President Evo Morales, Bolivia's indigenous head of
state, is trying to draw up a new constitution before an August
deadline which is being rigorously opposed by his conservative
opponents in the Andean country.


Garcia Linera said South Africa and Bolivia both faced the
challenge of empowering sectors of society that had been
previously marginalised.


"After 180 years, Bolivians are experiencing the challenges of
integration through the processes of democratisation," he said.


"The democratic way is to choose to establish a constitutional
system that will integrate groups who have always been excluded.
Accordingly, the South African experience will be very valuable
to us in Bolivia."

