

Al-Qaeda's branch in North Africa claimed responsibility for
Wednesday's deadly bomb attacks in Algiers, publishing
photographs of the three alleged suicide bombers in an Internet
statement.


The statement on an Islamist website often used by the Al-Qaeda
network of Osama bin Laden said three militants carried out the
car bombings which it said killed at least 53 people.


Algerian officials said at least 23 people died and more than 160
were wounded in the attacks.


The statement, whose authenticity could not be verified, said
that Mouadh ben Jabel detonated 700 kilos (1,500 pounds) of
explosives outside the prime minister's office "killing 45 and
wounding an unknown number, as well as partially destroying the
building."


Fellow suicide bomber Zoubeir Abou Sajida attacked Interpol's
offices with a similar sized charge in the eastern suburb of Bab
Ezzouar "destroying the building and killing at least eight
apostates," it said.


A third bomber, Abou Dajjana, blew up 500 kilos of explosives on
the road to Algiers airport, also in Bab Ezzouar, in an attack
targeting "police special forces headquarters ... destroying the
building, killing and wounding many apostates."


The pictures accompanying the statement showed three men wearing
traditional Tuareg headscarves, each flanked by two assault
rifles. Only one of the men had his face uncovered.


The statement from the "Al-Qaeda Movement in Islamic Countries of
the Maghreb" promised more attacks.


"We will not be in peace until we have liberated all the land of
Islam from crusaders, apostates and agents, and we have retaken
our Andalusia (in southern Spain) and our violated Al-Quds
(Jerusalem)."


It said the group had carried out several anti-government attacks
in Algeria since April 1.

