

Private equity groups Blackstone, CVC and Texas Pacific Group on
Wednesday abandoned their consortium takeover plans for J
Sainsbury, the third biggest supermarket group in Britain.


"CVC Capital Partners, The Blackstone Group International Limited
and TPG Capital announce that they are no longer considering
making an offer for Sainsbury," the three groups said in a
statement.


They added: "After a number of discussions between the board of
Sainsbury and the consortium, it became clear that the consortium
would be unable to make a proposal that would result in a
successful offer."


The share price of Sainsbury plunged 3.25 percent to 521 pence
following the news. Meanwhile, London's FTSE 100 shares index, on
which the company is listed, fell 0.17 percent to 6,429.00
points.


The statement described the talks with Sainsbury as "friendly and
constructive" and said it remained a "great admirer" of the
business.


According to recent newspaper reports, the consortium had
increased its informal bid for Sainsbury to 582 pence per share
earlier this week.


That would have valued the group at about 10.1 billion pounds
(14.9 billion euros, 19.9 billion dollars).


However, media reports suggested the proposed offer price had
failed to win over the Sainsbury family -- which holds an 18
percent stake and was reportedly holding out for 600 pence per
share.


Sainsbury employs 155,000 staff and has 769 supermarket branches
across Britain.


The supermarket chain is the third largest in the country after
sector leader Tesco and number two Asda, which is owned by US
giant Wal-Mart.

