

The euro struck a record high against the yen Wednesday, buoyed
by bright eurozone growth prospects and doubts about whether
world finance chiefs will try to shore up Japan's currency later
this week, dealers said.


The euro reached 160.41 yen in late European trade, a record for
the European single currency against its Japanese counterpart.
The euro had hit an all-time high on Tuesday after the Bank of
Japan held its key interest rate at 0.50 percent.


Against the US currency, the euro eased to 1.3435 dollars on
Wednesday, from 1.3438 dollars in New York late on Tuesday.


The dollar stood at 119.40 yen, up from 119.02 on Tuesday.


Investors bet against the Japanese currency amid continued
popularity of so- called carry trades, where borrowing in low-
yielding currencies such as the yen is used to fund purchases in
higher-yielding assets elsewhere.


The market is wary, however, ahead of the upcoming meeting of G7
countries in Washington, where the subject of yen weakness could
be a topic for discussion.


While analysts did not think the yen would be mentioned
explicitly, they did expect a reiterated warning on "one-way
bets" -- a comment made at February's G7 meeting in Essen that
was taken to refer to yen weakness.


Meanwhile, Europe's single currency traded within a narrow range
against the dollar as the market waited for the US Federal Open
Markets Commission (FOMC) to publish the minutes to its March
meeting.


When it decided to leave rates unchanged, the Federal Reserve
also suggested it was removing its bias to tighten monetary
policy, so market players would look for further such clues to
the Fed's thinking, as well as the extent of concerns over
inflation.


Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke "is not expected to make
any market-moving commentary," noted analysts at Thomson IFR
Markets.


They nontheless added that "the FOMC minutes could be interesting
if they reveal growing concerns among voters of potential threats
to US growth."


Julian Jessop, chief international economist at Capital Markets,
took a similar line, noting that although "anything that
reinforces the idea that the Fed is still on an implicitly
tightening strategy would be positive for the dollar", such a
reaction could prove short-lived if investors thought about the
harm an increase would have on the US economy.


In any event, the minutes may have been surpassed by Friday's
stronger-than- expected US jobs data, which is likely to prevent
the Federal Reserve cutting interest rates any time soon.


Late Wednesday the euro was changing hands at 1.3435 dollars,
against 1.3438 dollars late Tuesday, 160.41 yen (159.97), 0.6792
pounds (0.6810) and 1.6382 Swiss francs (1.6349).


The dollar stood at 119.40 yen (119.02) and 1.2192 Swiss francs
(1.2164).


The pound was being traded at 1.9782 dollars (1.9726).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold advanced to
678.20 dollars per ounce, from 677.40 dollars late on Tuesday.

