

A US soldier who erased journalists' images after US troops fired
into a crowd of Afghan civilians was trying to protect the site
for future inquiries, a NATO investigation concluded Wednesday.


US Marines opened fire after a suicide attack on March 4, killing
10 Afghan civilians near Jalalabad in eastern Afghanistan.
Journalists complained that US troops subsequently erased images
they had taken of the aftermath.


"Though the investigation remains classified, what is clear from
the investigation is that the deletion of any film media by ISAF
forces was an isolated event by one soldier, who was working to
ensure the protection of the site for security, force protection
and investigational purposes," according to the NATO-led
International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) investigation.


A security perimeter was established by US soldiers who arrived a
little after the suicide attack, but one journalist went beyond
it on two occasions, with another joining him the second time,
according to an ISAF statement based on interviews with soldiers,
interpreters and journalists.


Witnesses accused the marines of opening fire indiscriminately on
civilians. The marines insisted they only opened fire after
coming under attack from automatic weapons.


An investigation has been carried out into the marines and their
part in the deaths of the civilians, but the findings have not
been made public.


Two weeks after the incident, the unit of marine special forces
responsible for the shooting received orders to leave
Afghanistan.


A US Army spokesman earlier said the images had been deleted to
"protect the integrity of the investigation".

