

Sri Lanka's navy on Sunday sank two cargo vessels believed to be
smuggling weapons and explosives for Tamil Tiger rebels, the
defence ministry said.


Sri Lankan naval craft shelled the first ship after it failed to
stop for an inspection and opened fire on the navy, ministry
spokesman Prasad Samarasinghe said.


He said a second vessel in the area was also challenged and it
too had opened fire at the navy, prompting a sea battle.


"Both vessels were attacked and they exploded and sank,"
Samarasinghe said.


The defence ministry in a statement said the vessels had no flags
or other identification markings.


After firing warning shots across the bows the navy shelled the
ships, the ministry said, adding the sea battle occurred in deep
water off the island's Arugam Bay coast.


"The naval ships observed huge explosions onboard the vessel,
confirming that it was carrying explosives and war-like material
to the LTTE (Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam)," the ministry
said immediately after the first vessel was said to have been
sunk.


It said the second vessel retaliated with gunfire just after noon
(0700 GMT).


"Naval gunfire resulted in massive explosions setting the vessel
ablaze, confirming the suspicion that this vessel was also
engaged in gun running for the LTTE," the ministry said.


There was no immediate word from the Tamil Tigers.


The navy carried out a similar attack on February 28 and sank an
identical craft off the island's southern coast, according to
defence authorities here.


There have been stepped up clashes between suspected Tamil Tiger
ships and the Sri Lankan navy in recent months amid heavy
fighting in the island's northern and eastern regions.

