

Malaysia will not set a timeframe to conclude a free trade deal
with the United States, deputy prime minister Najib Razak said
Sunday.


"Malaysia is not tied down to any fixed timeframe. We will study
thoroughly every issue being negotiated (before deciding on the
free trade agreement)," he was quoted as saying by Bernama news
agency.


The US government Friday all but ruled out the chances of a deal
with Malaysia before a crucial deadline expires in two weeks.


US President George W. Bush's powers to fast-track trade
agreements expire in June. That gives US negotiators up to March
31 to present a deal for a mandatory 90-day congressional review
that would then be subject to just an outright yes or no vote
without amendments.


Steve Norton, a spokesman for US Trade Representative Susan
Schwab, said the Malaysian cabinet remained locked in debate
about crucial provisions of the deal, including government
procurement rules.


After the latest round of talks in February, Malaysia had
informed the United States that it needed more time to develop a
political consensus in favour of the ambitious pact, he told AFP.


Najib said Malaysia's position on the free trade issue was clear
in that Kuala Lumpur would continue negotiations until both sides
reached a consensus on the contentious issues. He did not
elaborate.


The two countries have held five rounds of talks but negotiations
have bogged down over 58 unresolved issues, and no further rounds
have been scheduled between the United States and its 10th-
largest trading partner.


Among sore points for US trade negotiators are Malaysia's
positive discrimination policies for its majority-ethnic Malay
community. The policies give preferential treatment to Malay-run
companies in the awarding of government contracts.


Malaysian farmers, activists and opposition parties have been
demanding a halt to the talks, arguing a FTA would damage
livelihoods.

