

A top mafia don in India jailed on murder and kidnapping charges
is planning to stand in upcoming polls in the key state of Uttar
Pradesh next month, his lawyer said Sunday.


Babloo Srivastava, who faces 32 criminal cases, plans to run in
the state capital of Lucknow as an independent in order to fight
corruption, his lawyer Ram Ugrah Shukla told AFP.


"Babloo wants to bring about a purge in the political system of
the country and it is possible only by grabbing political power,"
Shukla said, adding he would wage his campaign from behind bars,
and expected to win.


The March-April state assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh are seen by
analysts as the most important state political elections in
India.


The state is the largest in the country, with 170 million people,
and holds the most seats in parliament, making control of the
local legislature a prime goal for political parties.


Campaigns in the state -- once a base for the Congress party --
are fierce and often violent efforts to woo more than 100 million
voters, almost one tenth of India's population.


Babloo ran for a seat in the national parliament in 2004 but
lost.


Babloo's lawyer said all of the charges against his client would
be dismissed.


"The Delhi High Court has acquitted Babloo of a murder charge
recently. Police cannot prove charges against Babloo. There are
no witnesses against him," Shukla said.


Surendra Srivastava, a police spokesman in Lucknow, said that a
major problem in the criminal cases was that witnesses were
afraid to testify against Babloo.


More than 200 of the 403 members of Uttar Pradesh's state
assembly have criminal charges pending, with at least 93 facing
charges of murder or kidnapping.

