

The administrator of a southwestern state kept under emergency
rule in Nigeria has threatened to have troublemakers there shot
on sight to curb political violence, newspapers reported Sunday.


Retired general Adetunji Olurin, who runs Ekiti State, warned
Saturday he could invoke State of Emergency Laws against
politicians bent on causing violence as April general elections
draw near in the west African country, the media said.


"I wish to reiterate that this administration has the
responsibility to checkmate any perceived threat to peace and
stability of the state," said Olurin, who commanded a west
African peacekeeping force in Liberia in 1992-1993.


"Therefore, any political party which contravenes the law of the
land will be brought to book within the powers of the emergency
rule," he was quoted as saying during a meeting with politicians
in the wake of a recent upsurge of political violence in the
state.


These acts of violence were perpetrated by some political party
supporters, said Olurin, who warned politicians against the use
of foul or abusive language and hired thugs at campaign rallies.


A Peoples Democratic Party (DPD) gubernatorial candidate in the
troubled state, Ayo Daramola, a former World Bank consultant, was
murdered in the middle of last year at his residence in the state
by unknown assailants.


Another PDP governorship hopeful in the state, Segun Oni, and his
entourage were attacked last Monday by suspected political thugs,
media reports said.


After a political crisis which led to the suspension of the state
governor, Ayo Fayose, and the parliament, President Olusegun
Obasanjo had last October clamped a six-month state of emergency
on Ekiti.


The emergency rule is expected to end on April 19.


Governorship election is slated for April 14 while presidential
poll is fixed for April 21 across Nigeria.

