

A Somali regional police commander who was leading a crackdown on
insurgency was shot dead by one of his own bodyguards in the
southern port town of Kismayo, officials and neighbours said
Sunday.


Major Abdi Mohamed Abdulle was killed overnight in his compound
in Kismayo, 500 kilometres (310 miles) south of the capital
Mogadishu.


A second bodyguard and two children in a neighbouring house were
injured in the incident, they added. The man suspected of
shooting Abdulle had been arrested and taken into custody.


"He was shot at close-range and bled too much. He was pronounced
dead on arrival in hospital," said Ahmed Abdi, a police officer.


Mogadishu police headquarters confirmed the death and said it had
launched probe into the killing.


Residents said there were brief skirmishes in the compound before
the commander was killed.


"There was some shouting before the shooting occurred," said
Ismail Abdullahi."It appeared there was a disagreement over who
was to guard the officer's residence at night."


Abdulle had gained reputation for his unrelenting crackdown on
gunmen in the port town.


Shortly before he was killed he gave an interview to a Mogadishu
radio station announcing the capture four notorious gunmen.


The shooting comes as insurgents increased their attacks in the
Somali capital following the joint Ethiopian-Somali campaign to
dislodge Islamist forces from the capital -- and the country --
in January.


The attacks have claimed dozens of people and forced tens of
thousands to flee.


Earlier this month, the African Union deployed 1,200 Ugandan
troops there, part of a proposed 8,000-strong force aiming to
enable Ethiopian troops to leave and Somali forces to take over
security.


Somalia has lacked an effective government since the 1991 ouster
of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre.

