

Zimbabwe's main opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai said Sunday
that the crisis- hit country was at a "tipping point", in a
telephone interview with BBC television.


Asked whether Zimbabwe was on the edge of a "moment of
liberation," Tsvangirai responded: "I think that this is a
tipping point. Things are bad but I think this crisis has reached
a tipping point and we could be seeing the beginning of the end
of this dictatorship."


Turning to his recent head injuries sustained at the hands of
President Robert Mugabe's security services, he added: "My
physical condition is greatly improved. I am recovering."


Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) president Tsvangirai left
hospital in a wheelchair last Friday. Doctors told him he was out
of danger and had suffered no brain damage after his arrest for
trying to attend a banned rally in Harare last Sunday.


Images of a badly beaten Tsvangirai and his supporters triggered
worldwide condemnation, particularly from Mugabe's arch foes in
London and Washington.


In a further development on Sunday, another member of Zimbabwe's
opposition was prevented from leaving the country and suffered
serious injuries after being beaten up at Harare International
Airport, officials said.


Nelson Chamisa, a spokesman for the opposition MDC, was attacked
by suspected state security agents, his MDC colleague William
Bango said.


Tsvangirai told the BBC: "This morning when Nelson Chamisa tried
to go to the airport on a scheduled mission to Brussels, he was
attacked by men and he is also in hospital now, having suffered a
very serious fracture in his eye.


"This is a pattern which is increasing in intensity and I think
that this is a very serious situation.


Chamisa was on his way to attend an Africa Caribbean Pacific
(ACP) - European Union (EU) meeting in Belgium.

