

Arthur Mutambara, leader of the breakaway faction of Zimbabwe's
opposition party, will be charged with inciting public violence
after being re-arrested Saturday, officials said.


The leader of a Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) breakaway
faction was arrested at Harare International Airport as he was
travelling to South Africa where his family is based.


"He (Mutambara) is being charged with inciting public violence,"
Harrison Nkomo, his lawyer told AFP Sunday.


"These are the same charges which he was charged with last week,
which the high court ruled against. We are now seeking for his
immediate release from the police cells as we have written a
letter to the police and the attorney general's office."


Mutambara was among 49 others, including the leader of the other
MDC faction, Morgan Tsvangirai, who were beaten by police after
being arrested last Sunday, when police prevented a mass prayer
meeting.


On Monday last week, a High Court judge ordered police either to
take the opposition leaders to court by 12 noon, or to release
them from custody.


Mutambara and other opposition and civic leaders were
nevertheless brought to court well after the judge's deadline.


The opposition activists were later released into their lawyer's
custody after the state failed to formalise charges against them.


Nkomo said they would file an urgent High Court motion on Monday
seeking the release of Mutambara.


Meanwhile, police said they had identified members of the gang
that masterminded the bombing of Marimba police station in the
capital last week, press reports said.


Police spokesman Wayne Bvudzijena told the state-run Sunday Mail
that they had managed to identify the suspected opposition
activists behind the firebomb attack, which seriously injured two
policewoman.

