

Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert called Sunday for the
international community to maintain a year-long boycott of the
Palestinian government following the formation of a new unity
cabinet.


"We expect the international community not to fall for the new
Palestinian unity government and to continue with the same line
it has taken all along, the way of isolating the government which
does not accept the Quartet principles," Olmert said at the
weekly cabinet meeting.


The Quartet of Middle East peace mediators -- the United States,
European Union, United Nations and Russia -- froze aid to the
Palestinian Authority after Hamas came to power last year over
the Islamists' refusal to renounce violence, recognise Israel, or
abide by past peace accords.


The new Palestinian government unites Hamas and the Fatah faction
of moderate president Mahmud Abbas.


Palestinian prime minister Ismail Haniya presented the new
government programme to parliament on Saturday, but Israel says
it fails to meet any of the Quartet conditions.


"The government platform includes some extremely problematic
elements which can't be acepted by Israel or the international
community including the right to resist and the use of terror,"
Olmert said.


Olmert has vowed to maintain contacts with Abbas, but said on
Sunday that relationship would be further strained by his
agreement to share power with Hamas, a group responsible for
scores of suicide attacks against Israel.


"The new government and its platform limits our ability to have
dialogue with the head of the Palestinian Authority and also
limits the spectrum of topics we could discuss in the near
future," Olmert added.


Olmert ruled out any contact with any government ministers.

