

Bangladeshi police said Sunday they had formally laid charges of
extortion against the influential son of Bangladesh's outgoing
prime minister Khaleda Zia.


"We have filed the charge sheet against Tareque Rahman and his
secretary at the speedy trial court. They are charged with
extorting 10 million taka (144,000 dollars) from a businessman,"
said police investigator Mahbub Morshed.


The charges were laid after the police's "preliminary
investigations found evidence and proof that Tareque took money
from construction businessman Amin Ahmed Bhuiyan", he added.


"The court will now hold a trial after completing some
formalities," he said.


Tareque, the eldest son of Zia and former president Ziaur Rahman,
was widely seen as being groomed to take the leadership of Zia's
Bangladesh Nationalist Party (BNP).


He now faces between two and five years behind bars if convicted.


Police said Bhuiyan filed the case earlier this month.


Tareque is one of about 45 influential figures who have been
detained on suspicion of corruption.


The suspects have links to both the BNP and the former main
opposition party, the Awami League.


Zia's BNP-led coalition government handed power in late October
to a caretaker government tasked with holding elections.


The ballot was cancelled on January 11 by President Iajuddin
Ahmed, who also stepped down as interim government chief and
imposed emergency rule.


The new military-backed interim government has pledged to clean
up Bangladesh politics before reinstating democracy and holding
credible elections.


In 2005, anti-graft watchdog Transparency International named
Bangladesh as the world's most corrupt country for the fifth year
running. Last year the impoverished south Asian nation moved up
to joint third from bottom.

