

Russia's security chief issued a veiled warning to Washington on
Sunday not to use the Iranian nuclear issue to try to change
Tehran's political course.


"We oppose this question being used as an instrument of pressure,
being used to interfere in Iran's internal affairs," said Igor
Ivanov, the head of Russia's Security Council, Interfax news
agency reported.


At the same time Ivanov, who is Russia's chief negotiator with
Iran over its nuclear programme, called on Tehran to clarify
unanswered questions about its uranium enrichment activities.


"For 18 years Iran conducted enrichment that was not under the
control of the International Atomic Energy Agency. We insist that
these questions be resolved," Ivanov told the Council for
International and Defence Policy, a club of Russian officials and
foreign policy specialists.


"If this issue is closed, then Iran will have the right to
develop peaceful atomic programmess."


Washington accuses Iran of working to develop nuclear weapons,
while Tehran insists its only goal is electricity generation.


A nuclear-armed Iran "would present a threat to Russia's
interests both directly and indirectly. We will do everything to
make sure this doesn't happen," Ivanov said.


He also said that Russia's suspension last week of plans to
launch a nuclear power plant it is building near the Iranian town
of Bushehr was not linked to Iran's possible pursuit of nuclear
weapons.


"This is an independent question, and all the work that is done
and continues there is under the strict control of the IAEA," he
said.


Washington has consistently pressed Moscow not to launch the
plant, which it fears could cover weapons-related work.

