

Militants cut off the noses and ears of three Afghan drivers
supplying US military bases, while a UN mine-clearer was shot in
an ambush near Kabul, officials said Sunday.


In other insurgency-linked unrest on Saturday, three Australian
soldiers were slightly hurt when a rocket struck Kandahar Air
Field, the NATO force headquarters in southern Afghanistan.


The drivers were attacked in the eastern province of Nuristan,
where Taliban insurgents and other Islamic militants are active.


"After downloading their supplies into a coalition base in
Nuristan, they were heading to (neighbouring) Kunar," Nuristan
deputy police chief Ghulamullah told AFP.


"On their way, the Taliban stopped them and cut off their noses
and ears."


It was apparent punishment for working with Western militaries,
said the police chief, who uses only one name. Their trucks were
torched.


Taliban and other Islamist militants waging a guerrilla-style
insurgency against the government and its Western supporters have
killed scores of Afghans working with foreign forces or the
national administration.


Also on Saturday an Afghan clearing landmines was shot in the
shoulder in a gunfight outside Kabul, the UN Mine Action Centre
for Afghanistan said.


The US-led coalition said he was wounded by "extremist forces" in
an ambush on Afghan and foreign troops. The soldiers were
ambushed with rocket-propelled grenades and gunfire.


The Australians at the Kandahar base suffered "minor blast-effect
injuries" when a rocket struck their accommodation area, the
Australian Department of Defence said on its website.


Australia has about 500 troops as part of the NATO-led
International Security Assistance Force.


ISAF and the coalition together have about 50,000 troops working
to defeat insurgents from the Taliban movement, which was toppled
from government in 2001, and those from Al-Qaeda and other
Islamist groups.

