

Norwegian Aksel Lund Svindal secured his first World Cup overall
crown after a thrilling finale to the alpine skiing season here
Sunday.


Svindal went into the race with a 97-point lead on Austrian rival
and holder Benjamin Raich and needing to finish in at least 15th
place to secure arguably the biggest prize in skiing.


Raich pushed Svindal all the way, grabbing 100 points by winning
Sunday's slalom in defiant style ahead of compatriot Mario Matt
and Italian Manfred Moelgg.


However in the end the 29-year-old Austrian's bid to beat the man
who has proved a worthy challenger throughout the season proved
futile.


Svindal had sensationally won three races in a row over the past
week, and despite apparently hesitant slalom on Sunday he managed
to finish in the required 15th place, giving him the precious
points to win the crown.


The Norwegian finished the season with a 13-point lead in the
overall standings on Raich. Swiss Didier Cuche finished third
ahead of American Bode Miller, in fourth, and Matt in fifth.


Svindal has now added the competition's prestigious crystal globe
to the two world titles he won in the downhill and giant slalom
last month.


He is only the third Norwegian to win the coveted crown,
following in the footsteps of now retired alpine greats Lasse
Kjus and Kjetil Andre Aamodt, the latter considered the greatest
ever alpine all-rounder.


Kjus won the overall title in 1996 and 1999 while Aamodt won it
in 1994.


Svindal, 24, also secured the crystal globes for the super-
combined and giant slalom disciplines.


Raich, the double Olympic champion, was consolidated by securing
the World Cup slalom crown ahead of Matt and Swedish sensation
Jens Byggmark.

