

Rookie Englishman Lewis Hamilton played out his dreams to claim a
podium finish in his first Formula One drive at the Australian
Grand Prix Sunday.


Hamilton, the 22-year-old McLaren teammate of world champion
Fernando Alonso, achieved the best finish by an Englishman in his
debut race since Mike Parkes at the 1966 French GP, taking third
behind Ferrari's Kimi Raikkonen.


Coupled with Alonso's second place, Hamilton enabled McLaren,
without a constructors' title since 1998, to lead Ferrari by one
point after the opening GP in the 17-race season.


"This is beyond my dreams. Obviously to be in Formula One was a
dream, but to go into your first race and have such a smooth
start is something you don't expect but something we've been
working towards... I'm loving it," Hamilton said.


"I'm absolutely ecstatic. Today's result is more than I ever
dreamed of achieving in my Grand Prix debut."


Hamilton screamed through from the second row on the grid to beat
Alonso to the first corner in the race and kept in front of him
for 42 of the 58 laps.


"You can't be too excited about the first corner. I lost a place
to Robert Kubica and I needed to get it back and that's what I
did.


"To lead in my first Grand Prix (for four laps) was a fantastic
feeling, it was extremely tough to have the two-time world
champion (Alonso) behind you -- it's not easy, especially in your
first race," Hamilton said.


"It was all a new experience for me and I thoroughly enjoyed it."


Alonso only got ahead of his teammate on Hamilton's second pit
stop on lap 43, and trailed in after Raikkonen to beat the rookie
for second place by 18 seconds at the chequered flag.


"For the last five laps I had some problems on my second set of
tyres, so I didn't really have the pace to keep up with
Fernando," Hamilton said.


"I knew I had enough space behind me and the key was to bring the
car home, and at the end of the day I think I done enough for my
first race."

