

A first group of Congolese refugees who escaped a 2004 massacre
at a camp in Burundi left Sunday for the United States to start a
programmme to resettle more than 500 people, the United Nations
said.


Five families of 35 refugees from the Democratic Republic of
Congo left Burundi's capital Bujumbura on a Kenya Airways flight
for various American destinations in a scheme sponsored by the US
government, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees and the
International Organisation for Migration.


"Three other groups will depart this week and all of the refugees
will have arrived in the United States by the end of April,"
UNHCR spokeswoman Catherine- Lune Grayson told AFP.


The refugees, given a crash course on the American way of life
prior to departure, will be resettled in Colorado, Texas and
California, where they will be recieved by charity groups who
will assist with their integration.


"This resettlement will not only ensure access to specialized
medical care for some of the refugees who need it, but will also
guarantee the safety of the refugees and give them hope for a
better future," UNHCR's representative in Burundi Kaba-Guichard
Neyaga said in a statement.


The refugees are among an estimated 20,000 Congolese who fled to
Burundi after a flurry of violent skirmishes in the Democratic
Republic of Congo's South Kivu province as an eastern rebel block
attempted to wrestle power from the government in 2004.


In August 2004, armed gunmen invaded a makeshift camp in
northwestern Burundi, home to at least 800 refugees, and
massacred more than 150 people and left at least 100 wounded.

