

Defence lawyers for 36 Yemenis charged with planning or carrying
out acts of terror for Al-Qaeda demanded access on Sunday to the
accused's files before the next trial hearing, scheduled for
April


The 17-lawyer defence team threatened to quit if denied access to
the files, or consultations with the defendants, during Sunday's
second session of the trial that began on March 4 before a
special terrorism tribunal.


The 36, reportedly members of the Yemeni branch of Al-Qaeda, are
accused of "forming an armed group with the aim of perpetrating
criminal acts... by attacking foreign residents in Yemen, the
clients of a hotel... and causing explosions targeting vital
installations."


To this end, "they prepared explosives, booby-trapped cars and
weapons" while they "chose targets to attack", according to the
charge sheet read out in court on March 4.


The prosecution says the accused launched an abortive double
attack last September 15 on the Safer oil refinery at Maarib 250
kilometres (155 miles) west of Sanaa and petrol storage tanks at
the Dhabba terminal operated by the Canadian firm Nexen in
Hadramut province 1,100 kilometres (680 miles) southeast of the
capital.


Four attackers driving car bombs and a guard were killed in the
twin assaults which were later claimed by Al-Qaeda in an Internet
statement posted last November.


Thirty defendants, who are also accused of attacking police
officers, were in court on Sunday. They deny the accusations and
say their confessions were extracted under torture.


Six more are on the run after escaping from a Sanaa prison more
than a year ago and are being tried in absentia.


The fugitives were among 23 Al-Qaeda suspects who tunnelled out
of jail on February 3, 2006. According to the official SANA news
agency, 17 of the escapers later either gave themselves up, were
arrested or killed.

