

The United States is ready to work with members of the new
Palestinian government who are not from Hamas, which Washington
considers a terrorist outfit, an embassy spokeswoman said on
Sunday.


"Individuals who are not members of foreign terrorist
organisations but who do hold office in the unity government, we
do not rule out contact with those individuals," the spokeswoman
said.


Israel has called for the international community to uphold a
boycott of the entire government until it explicitly agrees to
international demands including recognition of the Jewish state
and renunciation of violence.


The spokeswoman said Washington will also maintain ties with
Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas despite his decision to share
power with Hamas, a group responsible for scores of suicide
bombings.


The moderate Western-backed leader is due to meet US Secretary of
State Condoleezza Rice on March 24 in Ramallah and again on March
26 in Amman, sources in Abbas's office said Sunday.


But the United States was disappointed with Palestinian prime
minister Ismail Haniya's speech to parliament on Saturday when
the new Hamas-Fatah government was sworn in, the embassy
spokeswoman said.


"We were disappointed with Haniya's speech yeaterday," she said.
"It was an opportunity to explicitly accept the Quartet
principles and he did not take it."


The Quartet of Middle East peace mediators -- the United States,
European Union, United Nations and Russia -- has called on the
Palestinian goverment to renounce violence, recognise Israel and
honour past peace deals.


However, the Hamas prime minister proclaimed the Palestinians'
right to resist the Israeli occupation and stopped short of
recognising the Jewish state's right to exist.

