

Rules governing large businesses must apply to major European
football clubs, European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso
said in a newspaper interview published in Portugal on Sunday.


"Football is a social activity with a sports logic but it is at
the same time an important economic activity," he told Portuguese
sports daily A Bola.


"The European Commission must apply economic rules to football
firms, some which are very large. Laws regarding to free movement
of workers and the internal market must be enforced," the former
Portuguese prime minister added.


Revenue from television deals and commercial franchises, combined
with the growth in popularity of European football in Asia,
especially after the 2002 World Cup in Japan and South Korea,
have made some of Europe's clubs hugely wealthy.


The 20 biggest-earning football clubs in the world in 2006 were
all based in Europe, according to an annual ranking published
last month by accountancy firm Deloitte.


Spanish giants Real Madrid topped the list with revenues of 292.2
million euros (389.3 million US dollars) followed by Barcelona
with revenues of 259.1 million euros.


The European Commission, the executive arm of the 27-nation
European Union, is expected to present proposals relating to
television rights and the transfers of football players later
this year.


In 1995 the European Court of Justice ruled that professional
football players in the bloc could to move freely to another club
at the end of their term of contract with their present team.


The court also ruled that quotas for international players in a
domestic team were illegal.

