

Iraqi security forces seized a cache of weapons, including a
sniper rifle, and arrested seven suspects in a raid on the house
of a leading Sunni parliamentarian, officials said on Sunday.


Brigadier General Qassim Mussawi, spokesman for Iraqi forces in
Baghdad, also said that four cars taken from Dhafer al-Ani's
house had been tested by "non- Iraqi experts" and found to
contain traces of explosives.


Ani is a former spokesman for Iraq's biggest Sunni movement, the
Islamic Party, which is part of the government of national unity.


It was not clear whether Ani was in his west Baghdad home on
March 8, when the raid took place, and he was not reported among
those detained.


Mussawi said the forces found "65 Kalashnikov assault rifles and
other weapons and seized four vehicles.


"We have dealt transparently with the detainees and released six
of them, because we do not have enough evidence against them," he
added.


"We're still holding one of them who had a sniper rifle inscribed
with a verse from the Koran -- 'If you shoot, and find your
target, it is not you who shoots, but God'," he said, referring
to a slogan popular with insurgents.


Mussawi said the vehicles were impounded at the Office of
Criminal Evidence and had tested positive for traces of the
powerful explosive TNT.


Speaking at a separate news conference, Iraq government spokesman
Ali al- Dabbagh, told reporters that the search proved that Iraqi
officials would investigate anyone suspected of breaking the law,
whatever their rank.


"If lawmakers break the law we will deal with them according to
the law; they will be treated according to the law," he said.


The Islamic Party's website confirmed there had been a raid, in a
statement that said the weapons were properly licensed and
accused Shiite Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki of ordering the
raid.

