

Scotland's stand-in captain Ryan Watson will be facing a few
familiar faces when his team takes on South Africa in the World
Cup here on Tuesday.


Watson, who will lead the team because Craig Wright has flown
home following the death of an aunt, is relishing the prospect of
meeting Graeme Smith and Mark Boucher, with whom he played at
school level when he was growing up in South Africa.


"It will add a bit a bit of spice by the fact that I know Boucher
and Smith quite well," said Watson who was born in Harare before
moving to South Africa.


"I went to school in East London with Mark, then moved to
Johannesburg and captained Graeme there. He was always a young
lad compared to me - he's come a long way since then."


Watson said his decision on whether to bat or bowl at Warner Park
should he win the toss would depend on conditions.


The Scots have already been hit all around the compact ground
here in their first match when defending champions Australia
piled up 334-6


"I don't think the decision (to put Australia in) was wrong. The
covers were on a long time before the game and Paul Hoffmann
bowled beautifully up front and could have got a couple of
edges," Watson told the BBC.


"They did get 330 but up until the 47th over they only had
270-280, so we lost it a little bit in the last three overs.


"Australia are the best side in the world in my opinion, so
hopefully the next games will get a little easier.


"Every team, when it comes to the top eight, is going to be tough
to beat so it just makes it an even bigger victory if you can
turn one of them over.


"I suppose the only good thing when you play the number one
ranked team (South Africa) is you get a little bit more hype
behind it and that's always good for the development of the game
in Scotland."

