

Existing and anticipated injuries could force England boss Steve
McClaren into a squad rethink ahead of this month's Euro 2008
qualifiers with Israel and Andorra.


Manchester United skipper Gary Neville was ruled out on Saturday
after suffering an ankle injury, while Micah Richards has an
ongoing calf problem.


With Premiership and FA Cup matches being played respectively on
Sunday and Monday, McClaren admits the squad he already has as
his disposal could change.


McClaren told BBC Five Live Sport: "Thirteen players are playing
on Monday and the squad could change by Tuesday."


According to United manager Sir Alex Ferguson, defender Neville,
32, faces three weeks on the sidelines after a clash with Gary
Speed in their comprehensive win over Bolton.


McClaren said he will wait for a medical assessment before ruling
Neville out his plans, but admits the defender, who has 85 caps,
is a major doubt.


"I have to wait for the doctor's report but it looks doubtful,"
said McClaren.


Manchester City defender Richards will report for England duty
despite his calf strain, and will undergo a medical.


Jamie Carragher and Phil Neville may now be brought in at full-
back to start England's vital match in Israel next Saturday.


After four qualifiers England sit third in group E, on seven
points and three points behind leaders Croatia. Russia sit second
on eight points.


Neville's injury means a further dilemma for McClaren concerning
the left-back position.


Ashley Cole is suspended for the Israel game but can play against
Andorra, while Wayne Bridge is injured.


McClaren may consider calling up Manchester United's Wes Brown,
who replaced the injured Neville at Old Trafford on Saturday.


England also have injury worries over Aaron Lennon, whose knee
injury has flared up again but Rio Ferdinand is fully fit after a
recent rib injury.

