

Washington was surprised by comments from Saudi King Abdullah
criticizing the US presence in Iraq and was seeking
clarification, US Under Secretary of State Nicholas Burns said
Thursday.


"We were a little surprised to see those remarks. We disagree
with them," Burns told Congress, recalling how the presence of
troops in Iraq was approved by an annual vote in the United
Nations.


"Obviously, we will seek clarification," he added. "You never
know. It could have been interpretation. It could have been
misreported."


Riyadh has so far been one of the staunchest US allies in the
Middle East and Burns added he was "sure this is not going to
disrupt the very good work we have been doing with Saudi Arabia
in the recent months."


On Wednesday, the Saudi king criticized the occupation of Iraq in
an opening address to the annual Arab summit in Riyadh.


"In beloved Iraq, blood is being shed among brothers in the
shadow of an illegitimate foreign occupation and ugly
sectarianism threatens civil war," Abdullah said.


Arab nations, which are planning to revive a five-year-old Middle
East peace plan at the summit, would not allow "any foreign force
to decide the future of the region," the king added.


The White House on Thursday hit back at Abdullah's comments
saying the US occupation of Iraq was not illegitimate.


"When it comes to the coalition forces being in Iraq, we are
there under the UN Security Council resolutions and at the
invitation of the Iraqi people," spokeswoman Dana Perino told
reporters.


Asked whether the US military presence in Iraq was illegitimate,
Perino replied: "Certainly not."


"We are there at the invitation of the sovereign government of
Iraq."


The deadly violence wracking Iraq daily was "absolutely
atrocious, absolutely, and that is why we are there, in order to
try to get the situation under control so that the innocent
Iraqis can go about their daily lives and have a hopeful future,"
she added.

