

Star French designer Hedi Slimane, who rejuvenated Dior Homme
with a new sleek line, is to part with the top-notch couture
house, an official at the luxury firm said Thursday.


"We did not renew his contract which ended last July," said the
official, who asked not to be identified and declined all further
comment on the breakdown in contractual talks.


Slimane's successor was not announced immediately but the
Internet edition of Women's Wear Daily said he was likely to be
replaced by Belgian designer Kris Van Assche, who worked with
Slimane for seven years, both at Yves Saint Laurent and Dior
Homme.


Slimane, 38, joined Dior Homme in 2000 after three years as
artistic director of Yves Saint Laurent's men's line. His three-
year Dior Homme contract was renewed in July 2003, when he was
also asked to take over as creative director of Dior perfumes and
men's cosmetics.


A rock fan and artist, Slimane's androgynous look of skinny suits
and tight low pants wowed the catwalks and made Dior Homme the
must-see show of each season.


Considered by his peers as one of fashion's top talents, Jean-
Paul Gaultier once said he could not do better and designer Karl
Lagerfeld shed some 45 kilos (90 pounds) to be able to slide into
a skinny Slimane suit.


Rock stars Mick Jagger and Pete Doherty have gone on stage in
Dior Homme while designer John Galliano has stepped out in
Slimane.


His autumn-winter 2007-2008 collection last January inspired by
the new wave 1980s featured baggy saroual trousers and layered
sweaters, jackets, coats and jackets.


Kris Van Assche, who is 30 and a graduate of the Antwerp Royal
Academy of Fine Arts, joined Yves Saint Laurent Homme in 1998 and
then worked at Dior Homme before creating his own eponymous label
in 2004.


His latest collection featured a wardrobe of contrasts, with both
check country- style and finely embroidered white shirts.

