

Wall Street shares ended higher Thursday after an upward revision
to US economic growth helped ease fears about a slowdown and
prompted bargain hunting despite a big rise in oil prices.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed up 48.39 points (0.37
percent) to 12,348.75, recouping a chunk of its losses from the
prior session.


The tech-dominated Nasdaq composite rose a fractional 0.78 point
(0.03 percent) at 2,417.88 and the broad-market Standard and
Poor's 500 increased 5.30 points (0.37 percent) to finish at
1,422.53.


Ahead of the opening, the government released data showing the US
economy grew at a 2.5 percent pace in the fourth quarter, a bit
faster than earlier estimates of 2.2 percent growth.


This helped spark a rebound from Wednesday's selloff, when
markets were jittery about Federal Reserve chief Ben Bernanke's
remarks about "uncertainties" in the US housing market and
uncomfortably high inflation.


"This revision is minor, but serves as a reminder that economic
growth is right at the sweet spot for the Fed's desired soft
landing," said Dick Green at Briefing.com.


"Growth is slightly below long-term potential of 3.0 percent to
an extent that will ease inflationary pressures over time, but
not so weak as to cause significant economic dislocations."


Keeping a lid on gains was a jump in oil prices. New York's main
oil futures contract, light sweet crude for delivery in May,
surged 1.95 dollars to close at 66.03 dollars a barrel, topping
the 66-dollar mark for the first time since last September.


Mace Blicksilver at Marblehead Asset Management said the indexes
started to fade around midday amid the jump in oil prices.


But he said there could be some upward momentum from end-of-
quarter portfolio adjustments, called "window dressing," in which
fund managers buy the best performing stocks to show they had not
missed out on gains.


"Tomorrow is the last day of the quarter and you could have a bit
of window dressing," he said.


Among stocks in focus, Citigroup rose 44 cents to 51.40 as the US
banking giant announced plans to double the number of its
consumer bank outlets in China.


Boeing was up 31 cents at 89.76 after the aerospace group won an
order from Avianca Airlines of Colombia for 10 of its 787
Dreamliners worth as much as 1.5 billion dollars.


General Motors fell 35 cents to 30.89 after a Financial Times
report said the world's biggest automaker was not in the running
for a bid for the Chrysler unit of DaimlerChrysler, whose US-
traded shares increased 57 cents to 81.56.


US Steel rallied 3.61 dollars to 101.22 after announcing plans to
buy Lone Star Technologies, a company specializing in making
steel pipes used in oil fields, for 2.1 billion dollars. Lone
Star shares surged 17.66 to 66.11.


Retailer TJX rose 35 cents to 26.85 despite revealing that a data
breach reported earlier this year may have been bigger than
anticipated, exposing some 45.6 million credit and debit card
numbers.


Bond were mixed. The yield on the 10-year US Treasury bond
increased to 4.632 percent from 4.620 percent Wednesday and that
on the 30-year bond fell to 4.829 percent against 4.831 percent.
Bond yields and prices move in opposite directions.

