

A Greek fan was killed on Thursday and five others were injured
in an arranged hooligan showdown on the sidelines of a Greek
women's volleyball match outside Athens, police sources said.


The fight between around 300 fans of Greek arch-rivals Olympiakos
Piraeus and Panathinaikos Athens broke out in Peania, 27
kilometres (17 miles) east of the capital.


The rival hooligan groups had apparently arranged to meet for the
clash, the police source said.


The hooligans clashed with bottles, knives and screwdrivers on
the parking lot of a toy store some distance from the volleyball
stadium, and the fighting spilled out onto the neighbouring
highway, paralysing traffic.


The dead fan was rushed to an Athens hospital with serious head
injuries, a hospital official told AFP. The cause of death is
still unclear, as he also carried stab wounds.


Police detained 18 people, including the driver of a car that
drove into a throng of fans when they attacked his vehicle.


Two cars on the highway were assaulted and damaged.


"They nearly cracked my head open," a driver told NET state
television. "If the police had taken longer to intervene they
would have burned us alive."


Three stores in the vicinity were also damaged, the Athens News
Agency (ANA) reported.


Fan violence routinely mars Greek sport, usually centred around
football and basketball but occasionally affecting other sports
such as waterpolo and volleyball.


Successive Greek governments have spent years trying to combat
the problem, stiffening laws, introducing personalised tickets
and promoting an initiative to install surveillance cameras
inside stadiums.


But success has been limited.


Last weekend, Greek fans managed to sneak flares into a high-risk
football match against neighbouring rivals Turkey, a qualifying
game for the 2008 European Championships that the authorities had
pledged to monitor closely.


Several of the flares were fired onto the pitch, and the Turkish
players were targeted with plastic bottles during the entire
game.


A brawl also broke out in one of the stands, apparently over far-
right slogans chanted by one group of Greek fans.

