

Olympic champion Bradley Wiggins cruised to victory in the men's
individual pursuit final here at the world track cycling
championships on Thursday.


Wiggins, who last won the crown on his last visit to the world
championships at Stuttgart in 2003, beat defending champion
Robert Bartko of Germany with relative ease in the 16-lap event.


Spanish veteran Sergi Escobar beat his compatriot Antonio Tauler
to take the bronze medal.


Wiggins had scorched his way into the final earlier in the day
setting a time of 4:15.976 - four seconds faster than Bartko.


However the 26-year-old, who has only recently returned to track
cycling with a view to defending his crown at the Beijing
Olympics in 2008, had to race for just under three minutes before
catching up with his German rival.


That signalled the end of the contest.


After a slower start than Bartko, Wiggins began to show his
faster pace just before the 1km mark.


After four laps of the 250-metre track, the Belgian-born
Englishman was over half a second faster than Bartko, who had
only qualified for the final with a late push in qualifying.


From then on it was all downhill for the German, who slipped to
over two seconds slower than Wiggins as the Briton slowly began
to chase him down.


Wiggins' victory will give him a huge psychological boost 17
months from the 2008 Olympics, especially as he only returned to
the World Cup track cycling this season after a near seven-year
hiatus.


The last time he competed in the world championships was four
years ago, when he won individual gold and a silver in the team
event.


Wiggins, who is a professional road racer with the French team
Cofidis, is likely to be inspirational when Britain attempt to
dislodge world team pursuit champions Australia on Friday.

