

The United States offered Thursday to boost cooperation with
Russia on missile defence, including sharing technologies and
research as well as developing missile defence systems.


The offer, by US ambassador to NATO Victoria Nuland, comes a day
after President George W. Bush tried to assuage Russian anger
over Washington's plans to build part of its missile shield in
Europe.


"The United States welcomes the opportunity to discuss missile
defense issues at the 19 April NATO-Russia Council meeting" in
Brussels, Nuland said in a statement.


"The United States also looks forward to further discussions with
the Russian Federation on bilateral cooperation and joint
activity in this important field, including the potential sharing
of technology and the development of compatible systems," she
said.


"Possible areas of partnership with Russia could include research
and development of missile defense systems, sharing of early
warning data, and exercises between our forces."


Russia sees the plans to base 10 missile interceptors in Poland,
a radar in the Czech Republic, and another in the Caucasus, as
intimidation and has warned its old Cold War enemy it would come
up with a "highly effective response."


Parts of the shield are already in place in the United States,
Britain and Greenland, and Pentagon officials say the plan is to
have the system operational by 2013.


Washington acknowledges that it primarily protects US soil from
attack by "rogue states" like Iran but that it would also shield
some, though not all, European allies.


In a telephone conversation on Wednesday, President Vladimir
Putin spelt out Russia's concerns about the missile plans to
Bush, according to the Kremlin.


A Kremlin statement said Putin had "noted with satisfaction" what
it described as Bush's assurance that he was ready to discuss the
issue in detail with the Russian side.

