

Tiger Woods' new US PGA Tour invitational event, the National,
will have a reduced field of 120 players when it tees off for the
first time here in July, the US PGA Tour announced Thursday.


The tour's policy board approved the reduced lineup, down from
the typical field of 156, for the July 5-8 event likely to be
staged at Congressional Country Club.


Some players were critical of the decision to trim the lineup
because the event comes two weeks before the British Open, making
it a prime stop for players preparing for the trek to Europe.


"We have for the long-term been committed to maximizing playing
opportunities for our members. We will continue to make that a
priority," PGA Tour commissioner Tim Finchem said.


"The feedback we have received from our Player Advisory Council
and the membership on the issue of field size for the National is
both understandable and very much appreciated.


"After weighing all the considerations, the policy board
determined that an invitational criteria for this event was
overwhelmingly positive for the PGA Tour and its members in the
long term."


The week where the folded International was scheduled to be
played was filled earlier this month by the new event, which will
benefit and be organized by the Tiger Woods Foundation.


Among opportunities mentioned was the potential creation in 2008
of a 132-player event opposite the World Golf Championships CA
Championship, the next edition of the event played last week at
Doral.


That would ensure plenty of opportunity for players who do not
make the elite event to have a tuneup two weeks before the
Masters, the first major championship of the season.

