

Apple unveiled on Thursday an iTunes online music store offer
aimed at enticing people into buying complete albums instead of
separate song tracks.


Apple touted Complete My Album as a "groundbreaking" service that
discounts album prices by amounts already paid for separate
tracks downloaded from iTunes.


The Cupertino, California, maker of iPod MP3 players set the
industry standard of selling individual songs in digital format
on the Internet for 99 cents each at iTunes.


"Complete My Album is a wonderful new way that iTunes helps
customers grow and enjoy their music collections," said Apple
vice president Eddy Cue.


"Music fans can now round out their music collections by
upgrading their singles into complete albums with just one click,
and get full credit for those songs they have previously
purchased from iTunes."


Complete My Album gives customers 180 days after first purchasing
individual songs to buy the rest of the albums at reduced prices.


"ITunes continues to revolutionize the digital music industry by
offering music fans innovative ways to explore and enjoy new
music," said Sony BMG Music Entertainment president of Global
Digital Business Thomas Hesse.


"With Complete My Album, iTunes is giving music fans the best of
both worlds -- the ability to discover great new music by buying
just the single and a credit toward the purchase of the complete
album."


US sales of digitized albums online dropped from 119 million
during the first three months of 2006 to 99 million during the
same period this year, according to figures released last week by
industry tracker Nielsen SoundScan.


Meanwhile, sales of individual songs in digital format on the
Internet rose from 242 million tracks during those months last
year to 288 million this year, according to SoundScan.

