

The dollar lost ground against the euro Thursday as an
improvement in the overall fourth quarter 2006 US growth figure
revealed weaknesses in the economy.


The single European currency in late-day deals was at 1.3335
dollars after 1.3312 late Wednesday in New York.


The dollar was meanwhile trading at 117.74 yen, up from 116.85 on
Wednesday.


In Washington the US Commerce Department said the economy
expanded at a 2.5 percent annualized pace in the fourth quarter
of 2006, a bit faster than earlier estimates.


But analysts cautioned that the report showed more tepid growth
was likely ahead as the economy takes a hit from a slumping real
estate market. The data raised questions about whether growth
will pick up as expected by the Federal Reserve.


The Commerce Department revision for gross domestic product (GDP)
was up from a 2.2 percent estimate released a month earlier and
slightly ahead of Wall Street forecasts which called for no
change.


The dollar pushed higher against major currencies when the news
was released, with the euro down to 1.3315 dollars at one stage
before returning to recently established trading ranges.


"The final estimate of Q4 GDP was a modest improvement over the
previous estimate, but nonetheless confirmed that the US economy
slowed to below-trend for the last three quarters of 2006," said
Bank of New York currency strategist Michael Woolfolk.


Mitul Kotecha, head of forex strategy at Calyon, said a closer
inspection of the data gave a much less optimistic picture.


"If you look at the detail some of the figures are quite awful,"
he said.


"Residential investment was down 19.8 percent, equipment and
software was down 3.4 percent while a lot of the gains came from
increased inventories."


The dollar also received a short-lived boost from news the number
of newly laid- off workers signing up for unemployment benefits
last week declined, suggesting the job market is still in good
shape even as the economy goes through a sluggish spell.


Tensions between Iran and Britain, prompted by the Iranian
seizure of 15 British naval personnel in the northern Gulf,
provided currencies with some support, as investors moved away
from more riskier assets.


The euro was steady, as declines in French and German
unemployment reinforced expectations the European Central Bank
would raise the key refi rate a further quarter point to 4.0
percent.


French unemployment fell 0.1 percentage points to 8.4 percent in
February, according to government sources. Economists had
expected the rate to be unchanged at 8.5 percent.


Earlier, the German Labour Office said the number of jobless
people in Germany in March fell a seasonally adjusted 65,000 to
3.832 million from 3.897 million in February. The decline brought
the adjusted unemployment rate in March to 9.2 percent from 9.3
reported in February.


Elsewhere the pound was largely unaffected by numbers showing
that British retailers posted their best monthly performance in
over two years during March.


The euro was changing hands at 1.3335 dollars, against 1.3312
dollars on Wednesday, 157.04 yen (155.50), 0.6794 pounds (0.6786)
and 1.6227 Swiss francs (1.6195).


The dollar stood at 117.74 yen (116.85) and 1.2166 Swiss francs
(1.2163).


The pound was being traded at 1.9627 dollars (1.9616).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold eased to 661
dollars per ounce from 666.75 dollars late on Wednesday.

