

The British woman sailor Faye Turney captured by Iran with 14
colleagues said UK troops should leave Iraq, according to a
letter published on Thursday by the official Iranian news agency
IRNA.


"Isn't it time to start withdrawing our forces from Iraq and let
them determine their own future?" Turney was quoted as saying in
the letter to her member of parliament, which IRNA only published
in Farsi.


London was quick to condemn the letter, with a Downing Street
spokeswoman saying it was "cruel and callous to do this to
someone in this position, and to play games like this is a
disgrace."


British Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett slammed the missive as
"outrageous and cruel."


"We have not seen this letter, but we have grave concerns about
the circumstances in which it was prepared and issued," Beckett
said in a statement.


"This blatant attempt to use leading seaman Turney for propaganda
purposes is outrageous and cruel," it said.


IRNA also quoted an Iranian official as saying the Islamic
republic had lodged a protest over the alleged incursion into its
territorial waters by Turney and 14 other British sailors and
marines, all currently held by Iran.


"Iran on Thursday summoned the British ambassador to lodge an
official protest regarding the violation of its territorial
waters by the British sailors," the official was quoted as
saying, requesting anonymity.


"During the meeting the British ambassador was told that media
and political rumpus don't help solve problems but only make them
more complicated," the official said.


London maintains that the sailors did not enter Iranian waters
but were well inside Iraqi waters on a routine patrol when they
were seized on March 23.

