

Foreigners make up more than 10 percent of the Irish population,
according to official census figures issued Thursday.


The results from the 2006 census released by the Central
Statistics Office (CSO) show the numbers of foreign-born
residents has almost doubled to nearly 420,000 compared to the
2002 figure of 224,000 or 5.8 percent.


The increased prosperity from the so-called Celtic Tiger economic
boom has seen the country change from one of net emigration to
immigration in the last decade.


Immigrants and returning Irish emigrants have swelled the
population to 4,172,013 -- the highest since 1861.


The majority of migrants, 438,489, came from European Union
countries.


There were 271,781 from Britain and British-ruled Northern
Ireland.


There is a growing presence from the EU's newer eastern countries
with 63,090 Poles, 24,808 Lithuanians and 13,999 Latvians.


The largest groups from outside the EU are 38,301 Americans,
16,677 Nigerians, 11,218 Chinese and 9,644 Filipinos.


The census also found that Islam is now the republic's third-
largest religion behind Roman Catholicism and the Church of
Ireland, which is Protestant.


The number of Muslims increased by 13,400 from 2002 to just over
32,500 in 2006 -- a 70 percent jump.


Catholicism remains the overwhelming faith with 3.68 million
followers.


The figures also show a slight decline to under 42 percent in the
percentage of Gaelic speakers despite government efforts to boost
the language's standing.


The report indicates that the number of families increased by
over 42 percent in the last 20 years.


Falling fertility has had a major impact on family size and has
seen the average number of children per family decline from 2.2
in 1986 to 1.4 in 2006.

