

European lawmakers on Thursday adopted two bills on maritime
safety meant to better control ships flying EU flags and put more
onus on shipping companies in case of accidents.


Resisted in particular by shipping-dependent countries like
Malta, Greece and Cyprus, the measures aim to force the 27
European Union countries to ensure that their shipping companies
respect international maritime laws.


The bills were adopted on their first reading.


Dubbed Erika III, the package, which still has to be endorsed by
member countries, is the third wave of EU rules named after the
tanker that sank off France's west coast in December 1999 causing
a massive oil spill.


One bill would oblige EU countries to check that ships respect
international rules before they are given their first permits,
and exchange information mong themselves about vessels in their
waters.


The other would set ground rules on responsibility in the case of
accidents, as shipping companies are not currently obliged to
have third party insurance.


It would also set up a solidarity fund, to which the naval
industry could contribute, to help pay some victims of shipping
accidents.


Laws contained in Erika's I and II have already had their impact
on an industry which accounts for about 75 percent of EU exports
and imports, in terms of volume, or around 45 percent in terms of
value.


They resulted in the banning in 2003 of single-hulled ships -- in
favour of vessels with a double lining that is more difficult to
pierce -- the setting up of an EU maritime safety agency, and the
boosting of in-port controls.

