

Saudi Arabia's foreign minister said on Thursday that King
Abdullah was stating a fact when he described Iraq as being under
occupation, a criticism which has prompted Washington to seek
clarification from its ally.


The Saudi monarch "did not name a specific (occupying country)
but said that Iraq is under occupation," Prince Saud al-Faisal
told reporters.


"I don't know how a country in which there are soldiers who don't
hold its nationality can be described other than as (being under)
occupation," the prince said.


King Abdullah on Wednesday slammed the "illegitimate foreign
occupation" of Iraq, where US-led forces have been in control
since invading in 2003 to topple Saddam Hussein.


"In beloved Iraq, blood is being shed among brothers in the
shadow of an illegitimate foreign occupation, and ugly
sectarianism threatens civil war," the king said in an opening
speech to an Arab summit in Riyadh.


In the past, Saudi leaders including Prince Saud have criticised
US policy in Iraq but have never described its presence there as
"illegitimate."


"Did (Iraq) choose to have these forces? Had this been the case,
it would have been a different matter. Any military intervention
that is not at the request of the country concerned is the
definition of occupation," Saud told a news conference at the end
of the Arab summit.


King Abdullah was stating a fact, Saud added.


US Under Secretary of State Nicholas Burns said on Thursday that
Washington was surprised by Abdullah's comments and was seeking
clarification.


"We were a little surprised to see those remarks. We disagree
with them," Burns told Congress, adding that the presence of
troops in Iraq was approved by an annual vote in the United
Nations.


"Obviously, we will seek clarification," he said.


Riyadh is one of the staunchest US allies in the Middle East and
Burns said he was "sure this is not going to disrupt the very
good work we have been doing with Saudi Arabia in the recent
months."

