

Kate Middleton, the girlfriend of Britain's Prince William,
lodged a formal complaint Thursday over alleged press harassment.


The Press Complaints Commission (PCC) said it was contacted about
a photograph published Thursday in the Daily Mirror tabloid
newspaper.


The picture showed her heading to work, wearing sunglasses and
holding a takeaway cup and her car keys.


"The PCC has today received a formal complaint from Kate
Middleton that a photograph of her in today's Daily Mirror was
obtained as a result of harassment in breach of Clause 4
(Harassment) of the Code of Practice," the regulator said.


Middleton's lawyers wrote to the PCC after filming incidents
outside her home and office.


"The intrusion into my client's private life and the harassment
that she has suffered are now amply evidenced by the events of
the past seven days," read the letter from Middleton's lawyer, a
copy of which was obtained by The Daily Telegraph newspaper.


A Daily Mirror spokesman said: "We will provide the necessary
thoughts and comments to the PCC.


"We will not be commenting any further at this stage."


The press focus on Middleton was thrown into the spotlight on her
25th birthday on January 9.


Middleton faced a bank of more than 20 photographers and five
television crews camped outside her flat.


Despite the presence of a police officer, paparazzi blocked her
path and when she finally drove away, photographers chased after
her car on foot.


Middleton's lawyers then began investigating ways of protecting
her from the persistent attention as her relationship with
William, second in line to the British throne, comes under
increasing scrutiny.


Later that month, paparazzi were given a "final warning" about
their conduct.

