

A British resident of Iraqi nationality is to be released from
the US detention camp at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba after four and a
half years, Britain's Foreign Office said Thursday.


Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett told parliament's lower House
of Commons in a written statement that Bisher Al-Rawi, who is not
a British citizen but has the right to reside in Britain, would
be returned soon.


"We have now agreed with the US authorities that Mr al-Rawi will
be returned to the UK shortly, as soon as the practical
arrangements have been made," Beckett's statement read.


"This decision follows extensive discussions to address the
security implications of Mr Al-Rawi's return."


Following Al-Rawi's release, the number of detainees at
Guantanamo Bay thought to be residents of Britain will be eight.
There are no British citizens currently at the detention camp.


Al-Rawi was arrested in November 2002 while on a business trip to
Gambia, and his mother, who has since become a British citizen,
has campaigned for his release. She says he was going there to
help his older brother Wahab set up a peanut oil processing
business.


Clive Stafford-Smith, his lawyer, has said that Al-Rawi was
showing signs of secure housing unit psychosis, which affects
prisoners held in high-security compounds, after spending four
years in detention.


"I have had several clients on American death rows who have
developed it and it's clear to me that he is sliding down that
path," Stafford-Smith said at the time.


"The conditions in which he is being held are worse than any
death row I've ever seen."


Al-Rawi's immediate family fled Iraq more than 20 years ago after
his father was arrested and tortured under former Iraqi dictator
Saddam Hussein's regime.

