

The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development said
Thursday it was worried about Ireland's commitment to fighting
bribery by Irish companies seeking contracts in developing
countries.


It said a visit by its officials to Ireland last October "was
characterised by very low attendance from key government bodies
and private sector representatives, in particular the panels on
the awareness, prevention and detection of the foreign bribery
offence in Ireland."


"The total absence of awareness-raising activities on foreign
bribery in Ireland also demonstrates the low priority given to
application of the Anti-Bribery Convention," said the 36-country
OECD Working Group on Bribery in a statement released from its
Paris headquarters.


The OECD's Anti-Bribery Convention aims to reduce corruption in
developing nations by punishing bribery in international business
transactions carried out by companies based in the countries that
have signed up to the convention.


The OECD however has no authority to implement the convention but
instead monitors implementation by participating countries and
relies on public pressure to force governments to toughen anti-
corruption measures.


The Working Group recommended in its statement Thursday that
Ireland amend its laws to confirm that bribe payments to foreign
public officials are not tax deductible, as well as to ensure
that Irish citizens and businesses can be prosecuted for bribery
offences committed outside Ireland.


It said that positive aspects of Ireland's fight against foreign
bribery and related offences include improved mechanisms for
seizure and confiscation of proceeds of foreign bribery, under
the Proceeds of Crime legislation.


In addition, recent reforms in company law should allow for more
effective enforcement of offences related to foreign bribery,
such as false accounting, it said.

