

World number one Justine Henin of Belgium downed Russian Anna
Chakvetadze 6-2, 6-3 to reach the women's final of the 6.9
million-dollar WTA and ATP Masters Series hardcourt tournament
here Thursday.


Henin, in quest of her 32nd career title and third in a row after
crowns in Dubai and Doha, will face the winner of a later semi-
final between Australian Open champion Serena Williams and
Israel's Shahar Peer for the championship.


"It's great. The beginning of the season I've had is fantastic
and I just hope I can keep going to the end in this tournament,"
Henin said.


In the day's other early result, Croatian seventh seed Ivan
Ljubicic advanced to the men's semi-finals by beating Argentina's
Juan Ignacio Chela 6-3, 7-5.


Reigning French Open champion Henin has not faced Williams since
beating the US star in a 2003 Wimbledon semi-final. Henin has a
5-3 edge on Williams in their career rivalry.


"We will see what's going to happen if I have to play her. She's
really powerful," Henin said. "I will have to play aggressive,
just try to raise my level a little bit more, take the
opportunities and fight on every point.


"It's great. The level she is back, I think it's going to be
close to her best level."


Henin, 24, fired five aces and broke serve five times to defeat
11th-ranked Chakvetadze, 20, in 71 minutes, denying the Russian
her second final of the year. Chakvetadze earlier won the title
at Hobart.


"She made a lot of mistakes, but I've been smart. I've played the
kind of game she doesn't like that much. But there wasn't a lot
of rhythm, so it was an easier match than was I was expecting,"
Henin said.


In the men's semi-finals, Croatian seventh seed Ivan Ljubicic
will face the winner of a later Thursday quarter-final between
Spanish sixth seed Tommy Robredo and Argentina's Guillermo Canas.


Canas played the giant-killer role for the second ATP event in a
row, ousting world number one Roger Federer earlier this week
after having ended his 41-match win streak earlier this month at
Indian Wells, California.


The other men's semi-final is already set. Serbian Novak
Djokovic, who upset second-seeded Spaniard Rafael Nadal 6-3, 6-4
Wednesday, will face Scotsman Andy Murray in a battle of 19-year-
old prodigies.

