

Three firms were awarded a share Thursday in a massive contract
to revamp US government's telecom networks worth at least 20
billion dollars over the next 10 years.


AT&T Corp., Verizon and Qwest were named contractors to
upgrade the US government's worldwide voice, data, wireless and
satellite communications for 135 federal agencies across 191
countries, the General Services Administration said.


The contract called Networx Universal "will transform the current
federal telecommunications system to a secure, worldwide"
Internet-based network, the GSA, the procurement and property
management agency for the government, said in a statement.


Analysts said that over time, the contract has a potential value
of up to 48 billion dollars, as the companies vie for specific
deals with individual government agencies.


"This big deal is actually many smaller deals over 10 years worth
between 20 billion and 48 billion dollars, which the carriers
will be competing among each other for," said telecom analyst
Jeff Kagan.


"This deal probably means the most for Qwest, looking at the size
and scope of the providers. However, it is a big win for all
three. This is the kind of deal carriers lose sleep over trying
to win. It is big and it is profitable."


Verizon said the new system "will help the federal government
usher in a new era of advanced communications services --
providing cutting-edge voice, data, wireless and Internet
services to government agencies around the world."


Qwest chairman and chief executive Richard Notebaert said the
contract was "a big win for Qwest that complements our progress
over the last five years and is a testament to Qwest's status as
a leading, national, tier-one communications provider."


Don Herring, senior vice president of AT&T Government
Solutions said the company "is ready to do what we do best: help
agency leaders meet critical mission objectives and better serve
their customers by maximizing their communications capabilities."

