

The South African supreme court ruled on Thursday that a town
which was renamed by the government without proper consultation
with its residents revert back to its former apartheid-era title.


Culture Minister Pallo Jordan ordered in 2003 that Louis
Trichardt in the northern Limpopo province be renamed Makhado but
judges said that guidelines to seek the views of locals had not
been followed properly.


"The guideline is that before a proposal for a name change, even
one of a transformatory nature, is considered, adequate
consultation with local communities and other stakeholders must
take place," Judge Ian Farlam was quoted as saying the SAPA news
agency.


"In all the circumstances I think it clear that this guideline
should have been implemented in the case of the Louis Trichardt
name change."


It is the first that the courts have ordered that a town revert
back to its former name after a petition from local residents.


The ANC government has sparked anger among sectors of the white
minority for seeking to rename many towns that had taken their
titles from white settlers and their descendants during the
apartheid era which ended in 1994.


The Freedom Front Plus party, which draws its support from white
Afrikaner voters, said the ruling should make the government
rethink plans to rename the capital Pretoria and the city of
Potchefstroom.


"The decision means the proposed name changing of Pretoria to
Tshwane and Potchefstroom to Tlokwe will in all likelihood be
placed on ice," said party leader Pieter Mulder.

