

Bangladesh and India will restore direct passenger train services
after a gap of more than four decades, the government said
Thursday.


The Bangladesh cabinet, led by interim government chief
Fakhruddin Ahmed, gave the go-ahead for the resumption of the
service, a government statement said.


The train will run between Sealdah, in the eastern Indian city of
Kolkata, and Joydevpur, near the Bangladeshi capital Dhaka, it
said.


The cabinet also decided to extend until 2010 the experimental
train service agreement the two countries signed in 2001. The
agreement, which lays the groundwork for the service to run, was
to end in July this year.


Passenger train services between the two countries were suspended
after the 1965 war between India and Pakistan. Bangladesh was
then part of Pakistan. Bangladesh became independent in 1971.


While passenger services remained suspended, cargo links between
the countries continued and in the 1990s a passenger bus service
was launched between Dhaka and Kolkata, which share the Bengali
language in common.


Bangladesh railway chief Belayet Hossain said the cabinet
decisions meant the last hurdles had been cleared in the drive to
restore the passenger train service.


The foreign ministers of Bangladesh and India agreed to resume
the service in a meeting last month. But it still needed formal
cabinet backing.


"We can now start the service in less than three months' time.
There are some technical problems such as tariff and immigration,
which needs to be settled. But they won't take time," Hossain
said.


The state-run Bangladesh Railway chief said at first it was hoped
to run a train a day from either side.


"It will initially carry some 600 passengers. But if it attracts
more passengers we will add more trains," he said, adding there
was huge potential for the service.

