

British Prime Minister Tony Blair renewed Thursday a vow to
bolster pressure on Iran over its seizure of 15 navy personnel,
calling the broadcast of footage of a female detainee a
"disgrace."


"What we have to do in a very firm way, is step up the pressure,"
he told ITV television.


"The important thing is we just keep making it very, very clear
to the Iranian government it is not a situation that will be
relieved by anything but the unconditional release of all our
people."


He added: "There's no alternative but to release them and the
longer it goes on, the more the pressure will be stepped up."


Asked about footage aired by Iranian television Wednesday showing
the sole female detainee, 26-year-old Faye Turney, Blair said: "I
just think it's completely wrong, a disgrace actually, when
people are used in that way.


"That's contrary to all international laws and conventions, and
is not going to make any difference to us. We need all 15
released because they were doing their job under a United Nations
mandate.


"There is no justification whatsoever for taking them in that
way."


He was speaking as Britain presented a draft statement to the UN
Security Council in New York, calling for the "immediate release"
of the detainees.


"We are going to have to step up pressure not just with them in
the UN and the European Union, but see what further measures are
necessary to get them to understand it's not merely wrong but
only going to result in further tension so it's sensible to
resolve it now.


"I'm not interested in confrontation for its own sake, the most
important thing is to get 15 personnel back safe and sound."

