

Star French designer Hedi Slimane, who rejuvenated Dior Homme
with a new sleek line, is parting with the top-notch couture
house and will be replaced by Belgian Kris Van Assche, the luxury
firm said Thursday.


A statement from Christian Dior couture announced the nomination
of 30-year-old Kris Van Assche as creative director of Dior Homme
but made no mention of outgoing Slimane, whose departure will
cause waves across the fashion world.


"Christian Dior is the very image of couture. I am very happy to
rejoin this house with its heritage and unique know-how," Van
Assche, who worked with Slimane for seven years at both Yves
Saint Laurent and Dior Homme, was quoted as saying in the
statement.


Slimane, 38, joined Dior Homme in 2000 after three years as
artistic director of Yves Saint Laurent's men's line. His three-
year contract was renewed in July 2003, when he also became
creative director of Dior perfumes and men's cosmetics.


A rock fan and artist, Slimane's androgynous look of skinny suits
and tight low trousers wowed the catwalks and made Dior Homme the
must-see show of each season.


Considered by his peers as one of fashion's top talents, Jean-
Paul Gaultier once said he could not do better and designer Karl
Lagerfeld shed some 45 kilos (90 pounds) to be able to slide into
a pencil-thin Slimane suit.


Rock stars Mick Jagger and Pete Doherty have gone on stage in
Dior Homme while even designer John Galliano has stepped out in
Slimane.


His autumn-winter 2007-2008 collection last January inspired by
the new wave 1980s featured baggy saroual trousers and layered
sweaters, jackets, coats and jackets.


Van Assche, a graduate of the Antwerp Royal Academy of Fine Arts,
joined Yves Saint Laurent Homme in 1998 and then worked at Dior
Homme before creating his own eponymous label in 2005.


Christian Dior said he would continue to design his own
collection.

