

European stock exchanges rallied Thursday, powered by a better-
than-expected report on US fourth quarter growth and positive
corporate news.


The London FTSE 100 index gained 0.91 percent to close at
6,324.20 points, while in Paris the CAC 40 jumped 1.42 percent to
reach 5,631.53. In Frankfurt the Dax added 1.18 percent to end
the day at 6,897.08.


The Euro Stoxx 50 index of leading eurozone shares rose 1.26
percent to 4,180.07.


On the currency market, the dollar failed to take advantage of
the US growth figures, as some analysts said a close reading of
the statistics revealed weaknesses in the US economy. The euro in
late day trade was at 1.3335 dollars after 1.3312 late in New
York.


In Washington the US Commerce Department said the economy
expanded at a 2.5 percent annualized pace in the fourth quarter
of 2006, a bit faster than earlier estimates.


But analysts cautioned that the report showed more tepid growth
was likely ahead as the economy takes a hit from a slumping real
estate market. The data raised questions about whether growth
will pick up as expected by the Federal Reserve.


The Commerce Department revision for gross domestic product (GDP)
was up from a 2.2 percent estimate released a month earlier and
slightly ahead of Wall Street forecasts which called for no
change.


Wall Street shares firmed Thursday on the upward revision to US
momentum, which in some quarters eased ease fears about a
slowdown.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average climbed 0.43 percent to
12,353.71 at 1520 GMT. The tech-dominated Nasdaq composite edged
up 0.07 percent to 2,418.89.


"This revision is minor," said Dick Green at Briefing.com.


But he added that it "serves as a reminder that economic growth
is right at the sweet spot for the Fed's desired soft landing."


"Growth is slightly below long-term potential of 3.0 percent to
an extent that will ease inflationary pressures over time, but
not so weak as to cause significant economic dislocations."


In London, the brewer Scottish and Newcastle surged 12.05 percent
to 595 pence on reports of a possible takeover move by rival
Heineken of the Netherlands.


Caterer Compass rose 4.92 percent to finish at 335.75 pence on a
report that foresaw a 5.0 percent increase in sales in the first
half of the year.


Defence group BAE Systems gained 2.50 percent to reach 461.25
pence, drawing strength from an upbeat account of activity at
competitor VT Group.


In Paris oil giant Total added 1.52 percent to close at 52.70
euros, taking advantage of firmer crude prices.


Aereospace group EADS gained 4.04 percent to 23.19 euros on news
that Australian airline Qantas was to acquire nine A320 aircraft
from EADS unit Airbus.


Construction company Eiffage added 3.61 percent to finish at 115
euros, bolstered by rumors that might be acquired by rival Vinci,
although Vinci denied having any such plans.


In Frankfurt the day's big winner was Deutsche Post, which gained
3.54 percent to close at 22.84 euros on reports that a investment
fund might take a stake in its capital.


Automaker DaimlerChrystler climbed 0.91 percent to 61.20 euros,
still supported by speculation it might sell its loss-making US
subsidiary Chrysler.


Elsewhere there were gains of 0.84 percent in Madrid, 1.03
percent in Brussels, 1.33 percent in Amsterdam, 1.2 percent in
Zurich and 1.37 percent in Milan.


On Thursday in Asia, the Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index
of leading shares closed flat at 17,263.94 points.


Hong Kong's key Hang Seng Index rose 1.37 percent to 19,821.78
points on a technical rebound after two days of falls, with CNOOC
and China Unicom posting steep gains ahead of their 2006 results,
dealers said.

