

Construction group Acciona said Thursday it would next month
present the Spanish stock market regulator with plans to join
Italy's Enel in bidding for Spanish electricity group Endesa.


An Acciona spokesperson said a ruling by the regulator, the CNMV,
that the two companies cannot bid for Endesa until October "does
not mean that we cannot present our plans to bid before that
time."


Acciona said the joint bid would be unveiled between April 16 and
20.


The CNMV has determined that Enel and Acciona, a Spanish company,
must wait six months from the April 3 closing date for an offer
for Endesa from German group E.ON before making their move.


Earlier Thursday, E.ON, a German power company, said it would ask
the Spanish high court to block the counter-bid by Enel and
Acciona.


The German group earlier this week took similar legal action
against its rivals in a US federal court.


E.ON has offered 40 euros a share for Endesa, which would value
the company at 42 billion euros.


But Enel and Acciona, who together already control 46 percent of
Endesa, have proposed at least 41 euros a share, an offer that
values the Spanish company at 43.4 billion euros.


Enel said Wednesday it was prepared to take legal action against
the Spanish stockmarket regulator for delaying its bid.


But in a statement Thursday, E.ON head Wulf Bernotat argued that
"if the behaviour of Enel and Acciona is illegal today, it will
also be illegal in six months."


"We must therefore completely bar the two companies from making a
bid for Endesa."


The Spanish government has been fighting tooth and nail to keep
E.ON from taking over Endesa, even though EU competition
regulators have approved the deal.


The E.ON-Endesa case has been widely seen in Brussels as a
flagrant example of protectionism by Spain.


The European Commission decided on Wednesday to open a second
lawsuit against Spain for blocking the bid by E.ON.

