

Ireland's leading economic think-tank on Friday said it expects
the country's gross domestic product (GDP) growth to slow to a
rate of 5.4 percent this year before easing to 3.9 percent in
2008.


On Wednesday, the Central Statistics Office said that Irish GDP
had grown by 6.0 percent last year -- the strongest rate of
economic growth since 2000.


The latest quarterly commentary from the Economic and Social
Research Institute (ESRI) expects gross national product (GNP)
growth to also hit 5.4 percent this year and to slow to 4.0
percent in 2008.


GNP is the Irish government's favoured measure of growth.


It is regarded as a more accurate barometer of the country's
economic performance as it strips out substantial profits from
repatriated foreign investments.


The ESRI said the economy this year is mainly being driven by
very strong growth in consumer expenditure which in turn is being
fuelled by the maturing of a special government backed saving
scheme.


Special Savings Incentive Accounts payouts are pumping almost 16
billion euros (21 billion dollars) to the 1.1 participants in the
five-year schemes as they mature in the year to April.


"In 2008, we expect growth to slow below 4 percent as consumption
growth reverts to more normal rates and as housing investment
levels off.


"Investment growth is expected to slow relative to recent years,
with growth of 5.0 percent in 2007 and 3.9 percent in 2008."


The ESRI warned that the economy has been losing competitiveness
since 2002 and argues it is now "imperative" to halt the trend.


"Growth in 2007 and 2008 will once again be driven by domestic
demand.


"Although world trade is expected to grow by 6.4 percent and 6.2
percent in 2007 and 2008 respectively, we expect exports from
Ireland to grow by 5.6 per cent in 2007, slowing slightly to 5.2
percent in 2008.


"As a result, Ireland will continue to lose market share," the
commentary says.


The think-tank expects employment growth of 3.8 percent this year
slowing to 1.6 per cent in 2008.


The slower rate of growth in 2008 could see the unemployment rate
nudge up to 4.7 percent and the ESRI expects immigration will
ease back from about 72,000 this year to 52,000 in 2008.


It also expresses concern about the high rate of borrowing. It
says foreign cash is being used to fund a very rapid growth in
private sector credit that is financing a boom in the housing
market.

