

The UN Security Council does not support UN envoy Martti
Ahtisaari's plan for the supervised independence of Kosovo,
Serbian Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica said Thursday.


"The simple truth is that the Ahtisaari proposal does not have
the support of the Security Council," Kostunica said in a
statement, as quoted by the Beta news agency.


"Since we clearly proved it as an illegitimate proposal aimed at
amputating 15 percent of Serbia's territory, which is in direct
contravention of the UN Charter, it is natural that a significant
majority of the Security Council refused to support Ahtisaari."


Kostunica specified that Serbia had "toppled the Ahtisaari plan
with powerful and irrefutable arguments before the Security
Council."


The moderate nationalist leader who heads a caretaker government
following inconclusive January elections said Serbia would now
focus on "a new process of negotiations with a new international
mediator."


He also supported a Russian proposal to send a UN Security
Council delegation on a fact-finding mission to Kosovo and the
Serbian capital Belgrade before any more talks on the status of
the disputed province.


On Tuesday, Ahtisaari briefed the Security Council as the
15-member body debated the future status of ethnic Albanian
majority Kosovo for the first time.


The Finnish diplomat's recommendation for internationally
supervised independence has been backed by Kosovo Albanians, the
European Union and United States, but rejected by Serbia and
veto-wielding council member Russia.


Kosovo, a southern Serbian province, has been run by the United
Nations since mid-1999, after NATO bombing helped to drive out
Serbian forces who were waging a brutal crackdown against ethnic
Albanians.

