

The head of the International Energy Agency, the energy watchdog
for rich countries, said on Thursday that gas producing nations
would struggle to form a successful "gas OPEC" to control prices.


Suggestions from some gas producers that they should club
together to form a cartel has caused concern in consuming
countries and the issue is expected to figure at a meeting of the
Gas Exporting Countries Forum in Qatar on Monday.


"I don't see how it could be possible to transpose to the gas
market the mechanism that OPEC has achieved in the oil market, so
I am not very concerned," IEA chief Claude Mandil told AFP on the
sidelines of an oil industry conference here.


The 12-member Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries,
formed in 1960 and the supplier of more than a third of world
oil, seeks to control prices of crude by manipulating the output
of its members.


A quota system binds each exporter to a production target set by
the group at its regular meetings.


But oil reaches the market quickly and is mainly sold through
short-term futures contracts traded on financial markets, meaning
production variations have rapid consequences on prices.


Gas is sold in long-term supply contracts with a set pricing
method, often stretching over 20 years.


"The gas market is quite different to the oil market," said
Mandil.


Russian newspaper Kommersant, citing Arab diplomatic sources,
reported recently that the meeting of Algeria, Iran, Russia,
Qatar and Venezuela in the Qatari capital on Monday "will be a
good time to announce the creation of a genuine gas cartel."


Qatari Energy Minister Abdullah bin Hamad al-Attiyah, who was at
the conference in Paris on Thursday, declined to comment.


"We have to wait to see what the others are thinking," he said.


The IEA is the energy arm of the Organisation for Economic
Cooperation and Development, an international organisation with a
30-strong membership including the United States, most European
nations and Japan.

