

Wall Street shares closed higher Thursday, in calm pre-holiday
trade marked by billionaire investor Kirk Kerkorian's 4.5
-billion-dollar takeover bid for the troubled Chrysler car group.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed up 30.15 points (0.24
percent) at 12,560.20, while the Nasdaq composite finished 12.65
points (0.51 percent) higher at 2,471.34.


The Standard and Poor's 500 broad-market index closed up 4.39
points (0.30 percent) at 1,443.76.


Kerkorian's personal holding company Tracinda Corp. said in a
statement the offer would aim to "build and strengthen Chrysler
as an independent entity."


The US carmaker, which has been struggling to maintain sales, is
currently controlled by Germany's DaimlerChrysler.


Kerkorian, a casino mogul, was previously a major shareholder in
Chrysler and he indicated his firm would seek to reshape the car
maker "by partnering with the United Auto Workers and senior
management of Chrysler."


Kerkorian, who last made headlines with his failed bid to push
General Motors Corp. into an alliance with Renault-Nissan, also
mounted a failed bid to purchase Chrysler ahead of its merger
with DaimlerBenz.


DaimlerChrysler's US-listed shares closed up a notable 4.24
dollars (5.3 percent) at 84.80 dollars in the wake of Kerkorian's
announcement.


General Motors finished up 87 cents at 31.90 dollars while Ford
closed three cents lower at 8.01 dollars.


Traders meanwhile said they were girding for the release Friday
of a key employment snapshot although the market will be closed
for the Good Friday holiday.


Most economists are forecasting that nonfarm payrolls swelled by
135,000 positions in March, after 97,000 new jobs were created in
the prior month.


The unemployment rate is expected to tick up a notch to 4.6
percent.


February job growth was in line with forecasts and recent job
data have been relatively solid despite a slowing down of the
world's largest economy and fears about America's housing market.


Traders warned nonetheless that dealing could be volatile Monday
morning depending on how the job numbers break down.


Falling crude oil prices lent the market some relief, traders
said, after Iran's government Wednesday released 15 British naval
personnel it had detained in the Gulf almost two weeks ago.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, shed 10 cents to close at 64.28 dollars a
barrel.


Big energy stocks were generally stronger. Oil giant ExxonMobil
finished 11 cents higher at 77.22 dollars while rival Chevron
closed up six cents at 75.61 dollars. Oil services group
Halliburton was up 10 cents at 32.94 dollars.


Bond prices fell. The yield on the 10-year US Treasury bond rose
to 4.674 percent from 4.652 percent Wednesday and that on the
30-year bond increased to 4.868 percent against 4.845 percent.
Bond yields and prices move in opposite directions.

