

Most Americans have little or no confidence in the information
they receive from the military or the media about the situation
in Iraq, according to a poll released Thursday.


The survey by the Washington-based Pew Research Center for the
People and the Press found that 52 percent have little or no
faith in the military's portrayal of the four-year war, compared
with 60 percent who feel the same way about the press reports of
the conflict.


The figures are a far cry from the overwhelming confidence
Americans had in the military and the media at the outset of the
war in March 2006.


At the time, fully 85 percent said they had at least a fair
amount of confidence in military information and 81 percent were
confident the press was giving an accurate picture of the war.


Michael Dimock, associate director of the Pew Research Center,
said the poll findings mirror the public's perception of how well
the war is going overall.


"People are questioning whether they are getting good information
about how things are going and it's affecting the public's
confidence in the government and military as well as the press,"
Dimock told AFP.


He noted differences along party lines in how people responded to
the survey questions with Democrats more skeptical about
government information whereas Republicans were more leery of
press coverage.


The survey of 1,038 adult Americans was conducted between March
30 and April 2 and had a 3.5 percent plus or minus margin of
error.

