

Electronic stability control must be included in all new vehicles
sold in the United States by 2012, the US government said
Thursday.


The new crash prevention technology keeps drivers from losing
control on slippery roads or in emergency situations with the aid
of automatic computer- controlled braking. It has been shown to
prevent deadly rollovers.


Standardized electronic stability control (ESC) is expected to
save between 5,300 and 9,600 lives annually and prevent between
168,000 and 238,000 injuries on US roadways, the department of
transportation said.


The estimated average cost of electronic stability control is
approximately 111 dollars per vehicle, assuming the model already
features antilock brakes. Automakers must begin to equip their
vehicles with the technology in the 2009 model and must offer it
as standard equipment by September 2011.


"Like airbags and seat belts, 10 years down the road we will look
back at the new ESC technology and wonder how we ever drove a car
without it," Transportation Secretary Mary Peters said when
unveiling the new rules at the New York auto show.


"ESC technology will put the brakes on crashes and help drivers
keep control of their cars in critical situations," National
Highway Traffic Safety Administrator Nicole Nason added.


"ESC works, it will save lives, and it can give American drivers
and passengers the peace of mind that comes from knowing their
vehicles have some of the most technologically advanced safety
equipment available."

