

A senior Iraqi journalist was killed on Thursday when a suicide
truck bomb exploded outside a television channel's headquarters,
the leading Sunni political party that owns the network said.


"The Baghdad TV headquarters was targeted by a cowardly car bomb
attack followed by a gun attack, killing deputy bureau chief the
journalist Thaer Ahmed Jabr," the Iraqi Islamic Party said in a
statement.


Another 12 employees of the 24-hour television channel were
wounded, some of them seriously, it added.


An Iraqi security official had said earlier that 10 Baghdad TV
employees were wounded when a suicide bomber blew up a dump truck
outside its offices in the capital's western Al-Jamiyah district.


"Since its establishment, the channel has been committed to a
moderate national line and has always defended Iraqi citizens,
regardless of their religious affiliation," the Islamic Party
added.


One of the party's leaders, Sunni moderate Tareq al-Hashemi, is
one of the country's two vice presidents.


In the same neighbourhood, the body of an Iraqi journalist who
was a prominent television newsreader during the time of Saddam
Hussein was found on Thursday a day after she was kidnapped, a
media rights group said.


The Baghdad-based Journalistic Freedoms Observatory quoted one of
her friends as saying Khamael Muhsin, who was working for radio
and Kurdish television, was kidnapped in the Yarmuk district on
her way home.


When police recovered her body gunmen opened fire on them, the
rights group said.


More than 150 media workers, 95 percent of them Iraqi, have been
killed in Iraq in the four years since the 2003 US-led invasion.

