

The Washington Wizards, on the brink of clinching a National
Basketball Playoff berth, got more bad news on the injury front
on Thursday.


Three-time All-Star guard Gilbert Arenas, who is fourth in the
NBA in scoring, will be sidelined for up to three months with a
lateral meniscus tear suffered in Wednesday night's loss to the
Charlotte Bobcats.


Wizards hurt his left knee in a collision with Charlotte forward
Gerald Wallace in the first quarter of the contest, and an MRI
revealed the tear that will require surgery.


The loss of Arenas comes three days after the Wizards announced
that All-Star forward Caron Butler will be sidelined six weeks
with a broken right hand.


While the Wizards appear all but certain to clinch a playoff
berth but have dropped behind the first-place Miami Heat in the
Southeast Division, and their chances of advancing in the post-
season seem slim without their stars.


"Gilbert was performing at an elite level," Wizards president
Ernie Grunfeld said. "It's unfortunate that this injury occurred,
but being the competitor that he is, Gilbert will approach his
rehab regimen with the same work ethic that has made him one of
the league's most outstanding performers.


"We expect him to make a full recovery, and we know that his
teammates will be up to the challenge to respond in his absence."


Arenas, 25, ranked fourth in the NBA scoring race behind Kobe
Bryant, Carmelo Anthony and Dwyane Wade.


Arenas gave the Wizards buzzer-beating wins in four games this
season and established a franchise single-game scoring record
with 60 points in a December 17 win against the Los Angeles
Lakers.

