

The European Court of Human Rights condemned Russia on Thursday
over the disappearance of a Chechen civilian the court said was
probably now dead.


Asmart Magomedovna Baysayeva, 49, from Pobedinskoye near the
Chechen capital Grozny, accused Russia of being responsible for
the death of her husband, Shakhid Baysayev, who vanished in March
2000 on his way to work.


The same day, a special operation by the Russian government
forces had been conducted in the village to identify members of
illegal armed groups.


In August that year, with no news of her husband, Baysayeva was
offered a video by a masked stranger in military uniform who
claimed to have information about his disappearance.


She bought the video from him showing her husband lying on the
ground, being kicked by a soldier. He was then taken away by
soldiers towards partially destroyed buildings.


The European Court of Human Rights said that the arrest of
Shakhid Baysayev had coincided with the military operation
carried out the same day and, citing the video, said it believed
he had died following his detention.


"The Court concluded that it had been established beyond
reasonable doubt that Shakhid Baysayev had to be presumed dead
following his unacknowledged detention by State servicemen," the
court said in its written ruling.


"Noting that the authorities did not rely on any ground of
justification in respect of the use of lethal force by their
agents, it followed that liability for his presumed death was
attributable to the Russian Government."


It condemned Russia for numerous violations of the European
Convention on Human Rights, notably the right to life.


Some 200 requests concerning Chechnya are currently pending at
the Strasbourg- based European court, half of them concerning
disappearances.


Moscow has the right to appeal within three months.

