

The suspected ringleader of an ETA cell who was detained last
week as part of a police drive against the Basque separatist
movement entered Spain from France by bicycle, a report said
Thursday.


Jose Angel Lerin Sanchez and another suspected member of the cell
called "Donosti" peddled their way across the border near the
Spanish city of Irun in March 2006, just days before ETA declared
a "permanent ceasefire", the Basque news agency Vasco Press
reported citing police.


The two brought with them 4,000 euros (5,300 dollars), guns and
false documents, it said.


The authorities believe Sanchez was attempting to set up a new
ETA cell based around San Sebastian in northern Spain.


The two men are part of a group of nine suspected ETA members
remanded in custody since the sweep began on March 28.


Sanchez was charged with membership in a terrorist organisation
and possession of explosives among other crimes.


Police have also seized some 170 kilograms (375 pounds) of
explosives as well as several weapons in searches carried out in
northern Spain, and have located an apartment where ETA's
internal newsletter Zutabe was put together as well as the
equipment used to print it.


The Spanish government says the operation -- the biggest since
ETA's "permanent ceasefire" declaration -- has dismantled the
"Donosti" cell which carried out 24 attacks between 2004 and
2006.


The Spanish government stopped the peace process with ETA after
the group broke a nine-month ceasefire with a car bomb attack at
Madrid airport killing two people in December.


ETA is responsible for 819 deaths in its 38-year campaign to win
independence for the Basque region which straddles northern Spain
and southwestern France.

