

International ratings agency Fitch said Thursday that it may
downgrade Latvia's credit status to reflect jitters about
economic overheating in the Baltic state.


Fitch said in a statement that it was changing its outlook from
stable to negative, although for the moment it was holding its
long-term foreign and local currency ratings for Latvia's debt at
A- and A respectively.


"The outlook change reflects the increased risk of an abrupt
adjustment in capital and financial flows or a prolonged, painful
slowdown in economic growth," it said.


"While the Latvian government's new anti-inflation plan is an
encouraging initial policy response to the country's growing
macroeconomic imbalances, the plan may not be sufficient to
restore the economy to a sustainable path," the agency warned.


Latvia has experienced rapid growth since breaking free from the
Soviet Union in 1991 -- last year the economy grew by 11.9
percent, the fastest rate since independence.


The GDP figures put Latvia at the top of the growth league table
in the 27-member European Union, which the Baltic state joined
three years ago.


But runaway growth has been accompanied by high inflation, which
in February was running at 7.3 percent on an annual comparison.


That macroeconomic cocktail has already brought warnings from
organisations such as the International Monetary Fund and Fitch's
rival ratings agency Standard and Poor's that the Latvian economy
was in danger of overheating.


Fitch has a scale for its ratings running from AAA to D, which
reflects the ability of countries and companies to repay their
debts.


A rating of A means a borrower has a strong capacity to repay its
debts, but is slightly more susceptible to changes in its economy
than the best AAA borrowers, while A- indicates concerns are
somewhat higher.

