

Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh on Thursday named a new
ministerial line-up marked by the return of key ministers to
replace the reshuffled cabinet of former prime minister Abdel
Kader Bajammal.


A presidential decree said the important portfolios of interior,
defence, foreign affairs, oil and information would be unchanged.


The new government will be led by premier-designate Ali Mohammad
Mujawar, electricity minister in the outgoing cabinet.


The finance portfolio goes to Nooman al-Dhahiri, former head of
the inland revenue. He takes over from Seif Mahyub al-Assali who
becomes commerce and industry minister, replacing Khaled Rajeh
Sheikh.


No reasons have been given for the replacement of the government
led by Bajammal since 2003.


Yemen is one of the poorest countries in the world, however, and
major donor countries, concerned that the reform process has
stalled, stepped up pressure on Sanaa by linking aid to tangible
change.


Saleh, who first took office as leader of what was then North
Yemen in 1978, survived a 1994 civil war with the former
communist south and Al-Qaeda-inspired violence in Osama bin
Laden's ancestral homeland.


Government forces are also battling followers of the rebel Zaidi
tribal leader Abdul Malek al-Huthi in the state's mountain
regions.


The tribe led a rebellion against government forces in 2004 and
2005 that left hundreds dead.


The Zaidis are an offshoot of Shiite Islam dominant in
northwestern Yemen, but form a minority in the mainly Sunni
country.


The rebels reject as illegitimate the regime which seized power
in a 1962 coup known as the September 26 revolution, overthrowing
a Zaidi imamate.

