

With two coveted collegiate basketball championships in their
pockets, Joakim Noah and his fellow University of Florida
starters are heading to the National Basketball Association.


Forwards Noah and Corey Brewer, center Al Horford and point guard
Taurean Green all announced on Thursday they will forego their
final year of college eligibility and enter the NBA draft.


Shooting guard Lee Humphrey - the other starter on the teams that
won the NCAA crown for the second straight season on Monday, is
in his final senior year of college and also headed for the pros.


Noah, son of French tennis great Yannick Noah, and Horford both
likely would have been first-round draft picks in last summer's
NBA draft after spearheading the Gators to their first national
title.


But the frontcourt duo opted to return for their junior years and
combined to average 25.2 points and 17.9 rebounds for Florida,
which also won the Southeastern Conference tournament crown for
the third straight season.


Brewer averaged 13.2 points and was one of the top defensive
players in the country. The swingman was named the Most
Outstanding Player in the Final Four.


Green also enhanced his appeal to NBA teams after emerging as a
clutch shooter and reliable ballhandler. The point guard averaged
team highs of 13.3 points and 3.7 assists while connecting on 40
percent of his 3-pointers.


The expected departures mean coach Billy Donovan will have a
rebuilding job in his hands in Florida, where has elected to
remain rather than bolting for the vacancy at rival Kentucky.


Kentucky athletic director Mitch Barnhart admitted to contacting
Donovan to gauge his interest in the job. But Donovan had no
desire to leave Florida, where he has compiled a 261-103 record
in 11 seasons and presided over the first team to win back-to-
back NCAA titles since Duke in 1992.

