

Plans for a US military withdrawal from Iraq by 2008 as proposed
by Democrats in Congress would only encourage enemy Iran and
demoralize friendly governments in Pakistan and Afghanistan, US
Vice President Dick Cheney said Thursday.


Cheney, speaking in a telephone interview on a popular
conservative US radio show, said he believed "that a significant
portion of the Democrats, including, I think, (Speaker of the
House of Representatives) Nancy Pelosi, are adamantly opposed to
the war and prepared to pack it in and come home in defeat,
rather than put in place or support a policy that will lead to
victory."


Cheney told the show's arch-conservative host, Rush Limbaugh,
that a withdrawal was "not just about Iraq; it's about our
efforts in the global war on terror and that entire part of the
world.


"It affects what's going on in Iran, where we're trying to make
sure they don't develop a nuclear weapon. You can imagine the
extent to which the Iranians would be heartened in that effort if
they see us withdraw from Iraq, next door," Cheney said.


"We've got (President Pervez) Musharraf in Pakistan and
(President Hamid) Karzai in Afghanistan who put their lives on
the line every day, in effect, supporting our efforts to deal
with the extremists and the terrorists in that part of world.


"If they see us bail out in Iraq, they clearly would lose
confidence in our capacity to carry through and get the job
done," Cheney said.


Democrats in Congress have approved emergency spending packages
for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan but attached restrictions on
how it may be spent and tied it to plans to withdraw in 2008.


President George W. Bush on Wednesday vowed to reject any
legislation with a withdrawal timetable.


"It's dangerous, it's dangerous for our troops, it's dangerous
for our country's security and it's not going to become the law,"
Bush said.

