

A French publisher said Thursday it had blurred the face of the
Prophet Mohammed in painting reproduced in a history textbook
after teachers warned it could spark protests by Muslim students.


The publisher Belin confirmed a report in the French satirical
weekly Charlie Hebdo, which said it had digitally masked the face
of the prophet in a reproduction of a 13th-century miniature
painting.


Charlie Hebdo, which was acquitted earlier this month on charges
of insulting the Muslim religion for printing cartoons of the
prophet, published the miniature in question in its latest issue.


Belin defended its decision to blur the image in a letter to
several teachers who wrote to it to contest the move.


"After presenting our new schoolbook to your fellow history and
geography teachers in a number of schools, several told us that
such a presentation of the Prophet Mohammed would today be
perceived as provocative..." the letter said.


Belin denied it had been "under pressure to blur the image" but
said the teachers had warned of "the difficulty of teaching
calmly in very heterogeneous classes," in a clear reference to
Muslim students.


A spokeswoman for the SNES teaching union, Alive Cardoso,
attacked the decision saying it was "injustifiable to manipulate
a source" and was "contrary to the work of a historian".


A Paris court last month threw out a suit brought by two Muslim
groups against Charlie Hebdo's editor for reprinting cartoons
that had appeared in a Danish newspaper, sparking angry protests
by Muslims worldwide in 2005.


The trial was seen as an important test for freedom of expression
in France and French presidential candidates stepped in support
of the weekly.

