

West African bloc ECOWAS will deploy its largest observer mission
yet during Nigeria's April 14 and 21 general election, an
official statement by the body said Thursday.


The 200-strong mission will be headed by the former Gambian
president Dauda Jawara, who also headed a fact-finding mission
that assessed preparations for the poll in Nigeria in February,
it said.


Prior to Nigeria's election, the largest delegation of 120
observers was deployed for Togo's election last year. Since then,
most of the missions have not exceeded 60 observers, the
statement said.


The team to Nigeria, comprising mostly members of the ECOWAS
Council of the Wise, parliamentarians, members of civil society,
the heads of the electoral commissions of Gambia and Ghana as
well as an expert from the United Nations Development Programme
(UNDP), will monitor the elections throughout the country, it
added.


The first set of observers will arrive on Tuesday, four days
before the April 14 state governorship and parliamentary poll.


Presidential and National Assembly polls are slated for April 21.


Under its Supplementary Protocol on Democracy and Good
Governance, ECOWAS is mandated to dispatch fact-finding and
observer missions to member states conducting legislative and
presidential elections to ensure democratic convergence across
the region, the text said.


It will also enable ECOWAS to determine appropriate assistance to
be rendered to such states in order to ensure the conduct of
free, transparent and credible elections.


ECOWAS is expected to send election observer missions to Guinea,
Mali, Sierra Leone, Togo, and Ivory Coast later this year, the
statement said.


The 15-nation Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS)
was established in 1975 to promote economic integration, peace
and stability in the region.


It has its headquarters in Abuja, the capital of Nigeria, one of
the body's founding members.

