

Ivory Coast's new government will be presented at the end of the
week, Prime Minister Guillaume Soro said in Abidjan Thursday
after a one-hour meeting with the president.


"I have just agreed with the president on the creation of the
government, we have agreed on its framework," Soro said, adding
that the Ivorian people would know the make-up of their new
government by the "end of the week."


The meeting with President Laurent Gbagbo was Soro's second since
his official nomination to the prime minister seat on March 29.


On Wednesday, former prime minister Charles Konan Banny handed
over power to his successor, the head of the New Forces rebel
group, as part of a peace deal brokered in neighbouring Burkina
Faso last month.


More than half the cabinet seats in Soro's government have been
set aside for New Forces members.


Konan Banny, who was imposed on Gbagbo by the international
community in 2005 to help disarm rebels and organise elections,
said Wednesday he had made "restoring trust among the Ivorian
people the top priority of my mandate."


"My wish is that the team that is going to succeed us continues
that work, finishes it so that we can arrive at peace," he said.


The March 4 peace agreement signed in Ouagadougou between Soro
and Gbagbo heralds the third change of government in four years
of crisis in the country.


Once a bastion of stability in west Africa, Ivory Coast has been
split since 2002 after a failed coup led by Soro.


Since then, his forces have controlled the north of the country,
while Gbagbo troops have held the south.


Huge challenges still lie ahead for Soro and his government,
Konan Banny reminded him during Wednesday's ceremony, including
an ongoing detailed census of the population, the disarmament of
militias and extending the government's grasp on the north of the
country.

