

Chelsea striker Didier Drogba has warned Valencia that his side
won't crack under pressure in their decisive Champions League
second leg next week.


Drogba's second half equaliser earned a 1-1 quarter-final first
leg draw against the Spanish team on Wednesday and kept Chelsea
in with a shout of reaching the semi-finals.


But Valencia will feel they are in pole postion in the tie as
they only need a goalless draw in front of their own fans at the
intimidating Mestalla Stadium on Tuesday to go through.


Chelsea, who have never won a Champions League match in Spain,
already look likely to relinquish their Premiership title to
Manchester United and failure to reach the last four could prove
to fatal for coach Jose Mourinho following his falling-out with
owner Roman Abramovich.


Despite the implications of defeat, Ivory Coast striker Drogba
insists Chelsea were under more pressure at Stamford Bridge and
claims they can relax because Valencia are now regarded as the
favourites.


"There will be no pressure on us in the second leg, the pressure
was here when they scored, " Drogba said. "So now we don't have
any pressure.


"Valencia played very well but I think we again showed our
character. It is not the best result but I think we can still do
something there."


Chelsea captain John Terry echoed Drogba's confidence and claimed
the forward, who is the first Blues player for over 20 years to
score 30 goals in a season, will play a decisive role.


Terry said: "With Didier scoring goals we are sure we can score a
few goals. We just need to keep a clean sheet.


"We have shown in the Champions League we can go away and go
through. We need to be on our game and full of confidence and
take the game to them."

