

World champion Kosuke Kitajima made a winning return to Japan by
regaining the men's 200-metre breaststroke title at the national
swimming championships on Thursday.


The 24-year-old former world record holder from Tokyo, also a
double Olympic champion in Athens, clocked two minutes 11.04
seconds for an easy victory, although it was slower than his
personal best of 2:09.42.


Ryo Tateishi came in second in 2:12.88 and Hiroshi Tenma third in
2:13.46.


It was Kitajima's first national title in three years at the
distance and fifth overall, after winning four straight
championships from 2001.


Kitajima won the 200m gold medal in the absence of his archrival,
American Brendan Hansen, at the world championships in Melbourne
that ended last weekend, and also won the silver medal in the
100m.


Athens Olympic 800m gold medallist Ai Shibata followed in
Kitajima's footsteps by winning back the women's 400m freestyle
title she won two years ago with a time of 4:09.37 for her second
victory.


Yurie Yano was second in 4:11.40 and Kanako Miyabe third in
4:14.91.


The opening day of the four-day championships saw two new
national records set by Ryo Takayasu and Hisayoshi Sato.


Takayasu timed 23.84 to break his own old mark of 23.91 to win
the men's 50m butterfly ahead of Takuya Kitamoto and Hirofumi
Soga for his third straight title and fourth overall.


Sato broke his old mark of 49.71 by setting 49.32 in the men's
100m freestyle for his first victory, beating Makoto Ito into
second and Daisuke Hosokawa into third.


Meanwhile, Nanaka Tamura and Yuka Kato enjoyed their first
victories in the championships by winning the women's 200m
breaststroke in 2:24.55 and 50m butterfly in 26.87, respectively.


Maiko Fujino retained the women's 400m individual medley for a
third year running with a time of 4:41.31.

