

Computer-aided mammography finds breast cancers no better than
the human-read kind, and it prompts more unnecessary biopsies,
said a study out Thursday.


"The use of computer-aided detection is associated with reduced
accuracy of interpretation of screening mammograms," said the
study published in the New England Journal of Medicine.


"The increased rate of biopsy with the use of computer-aided
detection is not clearly associated with improved detection on
invasive breast cancer," said the study of 429,345 mammographies
in 43 US medical centers, which detected 2,351 cancers between
1998 and 2002.


The study is the largest yet to compare the two systems. The
computer-assisted machines detected 4.20 cancers for every 1,000
women, while the old method found 4.15 per 1,000.


However, the computer-aided detection led to 20 percent more
biopsies of suspected tissue which turned out to be negative.


On the other hand, the computer assist found less-dangerous
cancers than the simple mammography, said Joshua Fenton, of the
University of California at Sacramento, one of the study's
authors.


"The results of this study will surprise and disappoint most
mammographers," said Ferris Hall, of the Beth Israel Deaconess
Medical Center.


"They constitute a substantial hit to this technology," he said.


The equipment from R2 Technology Inc., Kodak and iCAD Inc. costs
some 150,000 dollars.


The US Food and Drug Administration authorized the technique in
1998.


Some 24 million mammographies are performed in the United States
every year. Between 15 and 30 percent of hospitals have adopted
the computer assisted systems.


Medicare, the US medical system for retirees and the handicapped,
pays an additional 20 dollars per mammography, when it is
computer assisted.


Hall wrote that the financial incentive was approved "by a
heavily lobbied Congress, despite little evidence-based data in
support of its value at the time."

