

Finnish police said on Thursday they had arrested a Rwandan man
on suspicion of taking part in the central African country's 1994
genocide.


"The man concerned is suspected of having participated in
planning, leading and carrying out the genocide," a statement
said.


Police said they had been investigating the unidentified man
since the beginning of the year, in cooperation with the Kigali
judicial authorities and the United Nations International
Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda.


"The pre-trial investigation will take several months," the
statement said, adding that the man had arrived in Finland in
2003 and applied for asylum.


The arrest came two days after Rwandan genocide survivors and
rights groups criticised European Union countries for giving safe
haven to suspects in the 1994 massacres.


The International Federation for Human Rights and the Redress
Trust anti-torture group said that of 93 suspects living abroad,
37 were thought to be in European countries including Finland.


Some 800,000 people, most of them ethnic Tutsis, were killed
within six weeks in Rwanda in 1994 by members of the Hutu ethnic
group.


The genocide followed years of tension between the two groups and
was sparked by the death of president Juvenal Habyarimana, a
Hutu, in a plane crash.


The non-governmental organisations urged the EU to fully
investigate genocide suspects on their territories, prosecute
individuals where there is credible evidence and boost
cooperation on detecting suspects.


They also urged tougher screening of visa applicants to ensure
they have not been involved in serious international crimes.

