

Airbus received a total of 134 orders in the first quarter of
2007, putting it neck and neck with US arch-rival Boeing, after
having been knocked off its perch by the US company last year,
according to a newsletter published on Thursday.


"In February and March eight clients made firm orders for 44
planes," said the document published by the European planemaker.
It said the orders included 35 orders for A320 aircraft, two for
A350XWBs and seven for A330/A340s. 90 orders had been received in
January.


Over the same period Boeing received 126 orders, according to a
table dated March 27 on its website.


Airbus, which is mired in financial difficulties, had been
overtaken in 2006 by Boeing, with its 1,044 orders against 790
for the subsidiary of the European defence group EADS.


Until then Airbus had led the order stakes since 2000.


Most of the Airbus orders were for medium carrier A320 aircraft.


Airbus also said on Thursday it has decided to further increase
the production rate of its A330/A340 family of aircraft from the
current monthly output of seven to nine in 2009.


In the newsletter, the group said it was raising production "in
response to market demand for this Airbus widebody family which
continues to be strong, with 1,080 total orders and a healthy
backlog of 279 aircraft".


Airbus, which is owned by European aerospace and defence giant
EADS, is mired in a crisis caused by delays to its A380
superjumbo programme, seen as critical to Airbus' bid to catch up
with US rival Boeing.


Under its Power8 restructuring plan, the group plans to shed
10,000 jobs across Europe to save five billion euros (6.6 billion
dollars) by 2010.

