

High oil prices are the result of geopolitical tensions, rather
than a shortage of crude supplies, OPEC ministers said on
Thursday.


"The high prices of late are due to the geopolitical situation.
It has nothing to do with the fundamentals," OPEC President
Mohammed al-Hamili, who is also oil minister for the United Arab
Emirates, said on the sidelines of an oil industry conference
here.


But Claude Mandil, the head of the International Energy Agency,
an energy watchdog for rich countries, said that prices were too
high and that supply was "a bit too low."


"The oil supply is in our view a bit too low because we are in a
period when stocks should be built and we are not sure that
stocks are being built right now," he told AFP.


"We think it would be better to have a little more oil."


Qatari Energy Minister Abdullah bin Hamad al-Attiyah echoed
Hamili's comments by stressing that supply and demand were in
balance.


"This price is not related to demand and supply at all. It is
only related to geopolitics," he said.


The 12-member Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries has
cut its production twice in the last six months.


Prices rose this week to nearly 70 dollars per barrel in London
on Monday, mainly as a result of tension over the capture of
British sailors by Iran.


They have since fallen from this level, but were rising again on
Thursday on news of an bigger-than-expected fall in stocks of
gasoline in the United States last week.


Attiyah said he did not expect OPEC to increase its production
before the cartel's next scheduled meeting in September.


"I don't think so. There is no need," he said.


He declined to comment on speculation that some of the world's
biggest gas producers might announce the creation of "gas OPEC"
production cartel at a meeting on April 9 in Doha.


Algeria, Iran, Russia, Qatar and Venezeula are to meet in the
Qatari capital on Monday.


"No comment. We have to wait to see what the others are
thinking," he said.

