

French rugby union clubs confirmed their boycott of next season's
European Cup, the French National League (LNR) president Serge
Blanco announced on Thursday.


They are likely to be followed by English clubs as they had
announced earlier in the week that if French sides went through
with their threat they would also not play in next season's
tournament.


There were 14 votes in favour and just three against, two from
the French Rugby Federation (FFR) and that of Jean-Pierre Lux,
president of the European Rugby Cup (ERC).


"The LNR board confirmed their position taken in January that
they would not compete in the European Cup competitions (also
includes the Challenge Cup)," said Blanco.


Their decision came despite a last minute offer from FFR
president Bernard Lapasset offering French clubs 15.66 percent
shareholding in the ERC till 2009, which would have given the
English clubs time to resolve their differences with the Rugby
Football Union (RFU) as that is when their present contract runs
out.


"We appreciated the offer, but we think that it is not necessary
to hold talks at a French level, but more between the respective
European Federations," said Blanco.


Both the French and the English have claimed that they share the
same reason for the boycott - the Rugby Football Union (RFU)
granting English clubs equal shareholding in the European Cup.


However many in the RFU, including director of rugby Rob Andrew,
share the view that the French are using it as a smokescreen and
their real reason is fixture congestion following the World Cup
which they are hosting in September and October.


The sport's governing body the IRB had told AFP back in January
they had offered to allow the French to conduct their
championship during the World Cup - which they normally don't
permit - but it had been flatly turned down because the
broadcaster of domestic rugby did not want them to play during
the global showpiece as they would be missing a lot of star
players.

