

A Sri Lankan media rights groups warned Amnesty International on
Thursday that a campaign to shame the island's government during
the cricket World Cup could be counter-productive.


The influential Free Media Movement (FMM), comprising of
journalists and rights activists, said the use of the tournament
by the London-based watchdog could anger moderates and help the
government take a more hardline stance.


Amnesty has been asking Sri Lanka to clean up its act and has
urged thousands of fans watching matches in the Caribbean to sign
special white cricket balls marked "Play by the Rules."


"To mix sports in general, and cricket in particular, with human
rights advocacy, is a gross error and strategic blunder in a Sri
Lankan context," the FMM said.


The sport is hugely popular in Sri Lanka and is seen as one of
the few things that cuts through political and ethnic lines.


"Amnesty International's actions at the Cricket World Cup, for
the best of intent, may well result in the worst of outcomes for
human rights activists in Sri Lanka," the FMM said.


The government and Sri Lanka Cricket, the sport's governing body,
have already lodged a protest with the International Cricket
Council.


Amnesty says the Colombo government, Tamil rebels and other armed
groups must commit themselves to allowing independent human
rights monitors to oversee the island's long-running conflict.


"Please note that the campaign is in no way aimed at the Sri
Lankan cricket team," Amnesty said in a statement.


Rights activists have said that more than 750 people have
disappeared in the island in the past year as government troops
battle Tamil Tiger rebels.


In recent months, bodies have been found of people shot dead
"execution-style" and dumped in swamps and roadsides.


More than 4,000 people have been killed in the latest round of
fighting since December 2005 despite a Norwegian arranged truce.

