

South Korea's K.J. Choi struggled to a three-over par 75 start
here Thursday at the Masters, a bogey-double bogey finish undoing
an otherwise solid start to the year's first major tournament.


Choi, a four-time winner on the US PGA Tour, vowed to bounce back
but expects dry conditions to keep the course long and firm on
Friday.


"It was good until the last hole where I had a double bogey,"
Choi said. "My game was generally good. The 17th is such a
difficult green and I had no chance from where I was and three-
putted for bogey."


At the 18th, Choi's drive went into the woods and then he found a
bunker with his third shot after a coughing spectator disrupted
his swing.


"Someone coughed on my back swing and I put the ball into the
bunker," Choi said. "It's OK. That was good timing."


Tricky winds and the firmest greens since the course was
lengthened in 2002 thanks to a lack of the rain that hit Augusta
the past nine years made the 7,445-yard layout.


"It was tough to control the irons out there as the greens are a
lot harder now," Choi said. "The wind also made it tough on us as
it kept changing directions. In the practice rounds, the
direction of the winds was different.


"If we don't get any rain, the greens will become firmer and
it'll be harder to shoot a low score."


Choi was impressed with the start of India's Jeev Milkha Singh,
who seized the lead briefly with a three-under par 33 on the
front nine.


"It was good to see Jeev move to three-under at one stage. It was
fantastic," Choi said. "I'll follow his progress closely. I'm
happy to see the Asians playing well so far."

