

Renewed international focus on Somalia and pervasive exhaustion
with the incessant fighting in the war-torn country make for a
rare opportunity for peace to succeed there, a US official said
Thursday.


"I think the international community is focused on Somalia in a
way that it hasn't been in the last 16 years, so I think the
conditions are better this time around," Jendayi Frazer, the US
assistant secretary of state for African affairs, told AFP.


Since the 1991 overthrow of dictator Siad Barre, Somalia has been
plunged into a violent civil war pitting rival clans and warlords
against each other and featuring periodic famines and an
unsuccessful US intervention in 1993.


"One thing that gives me hope is that at some point people get
exhausted of killing each other," she added. "That's part of it,
the Somali people themselves."


Frazer was in Cairo for a meeting of the Somalia Contact Group of
diplomats from Europe, Africa, and the United States, which is
seeking a solution to the ongoing chaos in the African Horn
nation.


A national reconciliation conference for the nation's many clans
and factions is planned for April 16 to end the fighting and work
towards electing a new government, while an African Union
peacekeeping force is in the works.


The meeting came after four days of brutal fighting in Mogadishu
between Ethiopian forces and Islamists left nearly 400 people
dead.


Somalia's transitional government's mandate expires in 2009 at
which point it has to be replaced by an elected government.

