

Ukraine's Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych on Thursday said he
had invited international mediators including Austrian Chancellor
Alfred Gusenbauer to help resolve a deepening political crisis in
the ex-Soviet republic.


"I have taken a decision to bring in international mediators: the
Austrian chancellor -- Austria is a neutral country -- and well-
known European legal experts," he said.


Speaking at a press conference, Yanukovych said he took the
decision "in order not to allow an escalation of the conflict, to
avoid it growing into a civil confrontation and in order to bring
the situation back into the legal sphere."


The prime minister, who leads the pro-Russian governing
coalition, has called on parliament and government to defy an
order from President Viktor Yushchenko to dissolve parliament and
hold early elections.


If the order begins to be implemented, "then we will turn to the
presidents of neigbouring countries, including Russia and
Poland," Yanukovych said.


Yanukovych said he spoke to the Austrian chancellor on Thursday
after reading warnings by Yushchenko in a newspaper interview
that the political crisis could lead to a confrontation similar
to the one in Moscow in 1993.


Russia's then-president Boris Yeltsin called in tanks and armed
forces to storm the Russian parliament in Moscow when it refused
to adopt a new constitution.


International mediation was vital in resolving disputes in the
2004 Orange Revolution that brought Yushchenko to power after a
fraudulent presidential election was initially declared in
Yanukovych's favor.

