

Right-wing presidential frontrunner Nicolas Sarkozy on Thursday
received the official support of a former French left-wing
minister, the maverick ex-tycoon Bernard Tapie.


Bernard Tapie explained his decision in an interview with the
weekly Le Point, saying the Socialist Segolene Royal -- the
candidate backed by his party, the small Radical Party of the
Left -- "lacks experience".


Royal is narrowly trailing Sarkozy in the polls ahead of the
April 22 first round.


Tapie said he chose to back Sarkozy after the centre-right
Employment Minister Jean-Louis Borloo -- seen as a moderate with
a strong social streak -- joined his team last week.


"Today there is no hesitation, Sarkozy and Borloo have my vote,"
he said.


Tapie had a flamboyant career in the 1980s and 1990s as tycoon,
chairman of the Olympic Marseille football club and government
minister under socialist president Francois Mitterrand before
falling from grace under a succession of criminal charges for
match-fixing and corruption.


He served seven months in jail in 1997, after which he returned
to the media spotlight as an actor and talkshow host.


Sarkozy welcomed the left-winger's support, saying it was "better
to bring people together from far beyond your camp, than to
divide them". The head of Tapie's party, Jean-Michel Baylet,
warned that "from this day on, Tapie is no longer one of us."


Meanwhile Royal received the high-profile backing of former
tennis champion Yannick Noah, one of France's most popular
personalities, who attacked Sarkozy's tough line on immigration
and national identity.


"I would be deeply disappointed if Sarkozy is elected, for all
immigrant workers, for all people forced to prove on a daily
basis that they are French, even those born in France," the
former French Open champion, who is half Cameroonian, told French
radio.

