

An Indonesian court found national carrier Garuda guilty of
negligence Thursday over the death of a leading rights activist
on one of its flights, in a case filed by the campaigner's widow.


The court ordered Garuda to pay 73,800 dollars in damages to the
widow of activist Munir Said Thalib for failing to take adequate
action as he neared death during the 2004 flight from arsenic
poisoning.


Garuda has been at the centre of a storm over Munir's murder amid
allegations of a cover-up in the original police investigation
and links to the nation's powerful intelligence agency BIN.


The verdict disappointed widow Suciwati and rights groups, who
filed the civil case on her behalf, seeking 1.4 million dollars
in damages and a public apology from the airline.


"The court should have accepted our request for an audit and for
Garuda to apologise to the public. But whatever amount they give
us can never replace Munir," said Suciwati outside the Jakarta
court.


The government has come under intense pressure to act over the
case after Garuda pilot Pollycarpus Priyanto, charged with
carrying out the poisoning, had his conviction quashed late last
year by the Supreme Court.


Police have reopened their investigation and last month arrested
two former Garuda executives for allegedly falsifying documents
that allowed off-duty Priyanto to travel at the last minute on
Munir's flight.


Police have also said they were interviewing fresh witnesses,
raising hopes among rights groups that BIN officers will be
arrested.


Munir made powerful enemies through his work during and after the
rule of dictator Suharto, which ended in 1998, exposing rights
abuses including in Papua and East Timor.


On Thursday, judges found Garuda and the pilot in charge of the
flight guilty of failing to make an emergency landing after Munir
complained of feeling sick, asked crew for painkillers and could
not stand unaided.


There was no immediate comment from Garuda.


Munir, poisoned during a stopover in Singapore, died about two
hours before the plane landed in Amsterdam.


"When a passenger is very sick, the crew should consult the front
officers to decide whether to make an emergency landing," judge
Setiyono said.


"The pilot has the authority to take action for the sake of his
passengers' welfare," he said.


Chair of the judge panel, Andriani Nurdin, ordered Garuda to pay
664,209,900 rupiah (73,800 dollars) in damages.


But she dismissed allegations against nine other defendants
including arrested former Garuda executives Indra Setiawan and
Rohainil Aini, several current executives and crew members.


"The court has partially accepted the plaintiff's accusation and
found defendant one and nine guilty," she said, referring to the
airline and pilot Pantun Matondang.


Suciwati's lawyer welcomed the guilty verdict despite the reduced
amount of damages and rejection of a public apology.


"The police should be sensitive and use this decision as evidence
for the criminal case. They should investigate whether it was
caused by a set-up or incompetence," Asvinawati added.

