

The Swedish maker of speciality steel SSAB said Thursday it
planned to buy Canadian group IPSCO for 7.7 billion dollars (5.6
billion euros).


The all-cash offer was made at a price of 160 dollars per share
and had been approved by IPSCO and SSAB management, a statement
said.


"This acquisition represents an extra step in SSAB's 2010
strategy to ensure its leadership in high-value-added steel,"
group chairman Olof Faxander said.


"Through this operation SSAB is accelerating its growth and
buying a platform for its future expansion and its presence on
the north American market," he said.


SSAB said it expected cost savings of 600 million Swedish kronor
(65.54 million euros, 89.11 million dollars), mostly over the
next two years, due to the takeover.


The global steel industry is in a period of consolidation with a
number of giant cross-border deals in the last 12 months.


The takeover of European giant Arcelor by Indian-run rival Mittal
last year unleashed a wave of takeovers and mergers and created
by far the biggest steel group in the world


IPSCO chairman David Sutherland said the merger with SSAB would
give value to shareholders.


On April 12 IPSCO was valued at about 6.13 billion dollars on the
New York Stock Exchange and the company last year produced about
four million tonnes of steel.


It reported a net profit of 643 million dollars.


SSAB made first quarter net profit of 1.544 billion kronor, an
increase of 38.7 percent compared to the same period last year,
with its sales leaping by 15.2 percent to 8.78 billion kronor.


The Swedish group said its banks have agreed to finance the
transaction.


SSAB shares were suspended on the Stockholm stock exchange in the
late morning pending the announcement.

