

Elections were being held Thursday for the Scottish Parliament,
Welsh Assembly, all municipal councils in Scotland and some in
England.


Here are some key facts about the votes:


-- Scottish Parliament


The vote will see all 73 single-member constituencies and eight
parliamentary regions contested to elect the 129 members of the
Scottish parliament (MSPs).


Seventy-three MSPs are elected by the first-past-the-post system.
The 56 others -- seven for each region -- are elected by the
additional member system, a form of proportional representation.


Result at 2003 election: Labour (50 seats); Scottish National
Party (27); Conservative Party (18); Liberal Democrats (17);
Greens (7); Scottish Socialists (6); Scottish Senior Citizens
Unity Party (1); independents (3).


Turnout (2003): 49.4 percent, down from 59 percent in 1999.


-- Scottish councils


All 1,222 seats are up for grabs on each of Scotland's 32
municipal councils, which provide local services and facilities
in their areas.


The single transferable voting system, a form of proportional
representation, is being used for the first time in Scotland.


Votes for both the Scottish parliament and councils will be
counted electronically.


Turnout (2003): 49.8 percent


-- Welsh Assembly


All 60 seats for the assembly in Cardiff are up for grabs: 40
constituency seats and four for each of Wales's five regions.


Single-member constituency seats are elected by the first-past-
the-post system; the regional seats use additional member system.


Current standings: Labour (29); Plaid Cymru (12); Conservative
Party (11); Liberal Democrats (6); others (2).


Turnout: 38 percent, down from 46 percent in 1999.


-- English councils


About 10,500 seats across 312 local authorities are being
contested. Half of these seats are in eastern, southern and
south-west England.


Either a third of an individual council's seats or the whole
council is being contested.


Voting is by the first-past-the-post system.


Three council areas are holding elections for mayor at the same
time.

