

Manchester City boss Stuart Pearce has denied that the club's
refusal to move Saturday's derby clash back to Sunday was
motivated by a desire to scupper United's hopes of clinching the
Premiership title.


United's players will line up against their crosstown rivals at
lunchtime at the City of Manchester stadium barely 48 hours after
they got home from their Champions League semi-final second leg
in Milan.


In light of that, the Red Devils had asked for the match to be
delayed 24 hours but City, backed by the Premier League, refused,
prompting allegations they were acting out of malice.


Pearce rubbished that suggestion, arguing that last-minute
changes to fixtures penalised fans who had made travel and other
arrangements to get to the match.


"We have not made this decision to spite Manchester United, we
have made it because this game has been pencilled in for Saturday
all season," the City manager said.


"When we switched one of our matches against Everton last season,
we received letter after letter. The list of problems we
encountered was endless.


"So when it came to this situation we just felt it was totally
unfair to supporters who had spent a lot of money on travel and
tickets. That is why the game wasn't moved."


Pearce's comments are unlikely to assuage United boss Sir Alex
Ferguson, who complained bitterly after his side's defeat in
Milan that English clubs were not being supported in their
efforts to secure success in Europe.


"We have not had much help from the Premier League but we will be
there on Saturday," Ferguson said.


As Pearce pointed out however, by playing the derby on Saturday,
United will have an extra day to prepare for Wednesday's trip to
Chelsea.


United need four points from three games to clinch the title.
That could happen as early as Sunday if they beat City and
Chelsea fail to win at Arsenal 24 hours later.

