

Google and Belgian newspapers that sued the Internet giant have
restarted talks in their copyright dispute, the two groups said
Thursday, although a settlement remained distant.


After several weeks of discussions, Google accepted to include
links on its search engine to the site of Belgium French-language
newspapers, the two groups said in a joint statement.


Now, for example, when a Google user searches for La Libre
Belgique a link to the Belgian daily's site appears, which was
not the case several months ago.


However, articles from the newspapers still do not appear in the
Google News section of the search engine in line with a February
ruling from a Belgian court.


In that decision, a Brussels court found that the California-
based company had "violated copyright" rules and ordered it to
remove the papers' content.


In reaction, Google also stopped providing links to the
newspapers' sites on its Internet search engine, depriving them
of traffic.


In their joint statement, Google and newspapers said they had
started "a constructive dialogue" and wanted to "take advantage
of a legal lull to push ahead with efforts to identify concrete
ways of working together in the long term."


Despite the less aggressive tone, the clash was far from being
solved.


"A dialogue does not mean that legal procedures are over," Google
spokesman Philippe Etienne said.


The company said in February that it would appeal the court's
decision and meanwhile the newspapers are seeking remuneration in
exchange for allowing their content to appear in Google News.


Agence France-Presse struck a similar deal with Google last month
as US news agency The Associated Press had previously done.

