

Hong Kong share prices closed 1.44 percent higher Thursday,
extending gains on hopes an upcoming government land auction will
attract strong interest from leading developers and push property
prices higher, dealers said.


They said the market also got a strong boost from HSBC, which
continued to benefit from news of a significant investment in the
global baning giant by a private-equity firm owned by Dubai ruler
Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum.


The Hang Seng Index jumped 293.09 points to 20,681.58, off a low
of 20,555.57 and a high of 20,739.03. Turnover was 54.44 billion
dollars (7.0 billion US).


"Interest in property stocks was particularly strong and helped
the market post strong gains," said Castor Pang, strategist at
Sun Hung Kai Financial Group.


"Next week's government land auction is widely expected to draw
strong interest from Hong Kong's leading property developers," he
said.


"With prospects of record prices, sentiment towards the property
market will likely improve and probably boost sales of
apartments," he added.


Pang said the property sector's strong performance was also
facilitated by lower valuations in the sector relative to other
leading stocks.


"Property stocks have lagged the index in the past week or so and
this has encouraged scores of investors" to build positions in
the sector, he said.


The property sector index closed up 752.73 points or 3.07 percent
at 25,262.08, with Cheung Kong up 3.30 dollars at 106.40 dollars
and Sun Hung Kai Properties up 2.20 at 94.55.


HSBC finished up 1.70 at 147.10. Unit Hang Seng Bank rose 1.30 at
113.10 and BOC Hong Kong gained 0.12 at 19.44.


The financial sub-index rose 341.74 points or 1.05 percent at
32,768.67.


Other blue chips moved in line with the overall market, with
China Mobile rising 1.45 at 72.40 and Hutchison Whampoa up 0.70
at 76.50.


China financials were mostly higher as most investors have
discounted more macro-economic tightening measures on the
mainland, Pang said.


Bank of China was up 0.06 at 3.92 and ICBC rose 0.01 at 4.27.


The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index closed up 141.30 points or
1.41 percent at 10,134.40.

