

Embattled European aircraft maker Airbus will return to profit in
2008 after two years of heavy losses, the finance director of its
parent company EADS predicted in a German press interview on
Thursday.


"According to our current forecasts, Airbus is going to make a
net operational profit in 2008," Hans Peter Ring told the
Boersen-Zeitung.


Airbus suffered an operating loss of 572 million euros (778
million dollars) in 2006, mainly because of problems with the
construction of its new A380 superjumbo which is two years behind
schedule.


Ring said the manufacturer would likely sustain a loss this year
roughly similar to that of 2006.


Airbus in 2005, its reported operating earnings of 2.3 billion
euros.


Ring said that by 2008, the company would be reaping the benefits
of the Power8 restructuring plan, under which 10,000 jobs in
Europe will be eliminated over the next four years.


He defended the restructuring measures, which have sparked
widespread protests from unions and calls from French
presidential candidates Nicolas Sarkozy and Segolene Royal for a
rethink, as "important for our survival."


"From our point of view, there is no alternative," Ring said,
urging politicians to stay out of the running of the business.


"The statements made by some political leaders during the
discussions about Power8 certainly weren't very beneficial.


"Promises that can't be kept only succeed in annoying workers.
And that then gets passed on to the management who are expected
to come up with solutions," Ring said.


Airbus' results have contrasted sharply with those of its US
rival Boeing, which made a comeback last year after spending five
years behind its European rival in the battle for new orders.

