

General Motors workers were on strike Thursday in several
European countries to protest against more than 1,400 job cuts
planned at its Opel plant in Antwerp, a union official said.


General Motors announced plans last month to axe 1,400 jobs at
its factory in Antwerp, Belgium, as part of a shake-up of
production for the next generation of the group's Opel Astra
model from 2010.


In support of their Antwerp colleagues who have been striking for
the last week, GM Europe workers also decided to down tools, the
secretary general of the European Metalworkers Federation Peter
Scherrer said.


The first figures on the number of workers participating were due
in the afternoon and GM Europe's website said that all its
factories were affected.


In Germany a spokesman for the IG Metall union said all sites
there -- mainly Opel factories -- were taking action, stopping
work for three hours.


In the Frankfurt suburb of Russelheim, for example, 4,000 workers
protested Thursday morning in front of the gates of the main Opel
site.


GM employs 60,000 workers in Europe at plants making Opel, Saab
and Vauxhall marques in Austria, Britain, France, Germany,
Hungary, Poland, Russia, Spain and Sweden.


In a statement from GM's German subsidiary Opel in Frankfurt on
April 17, GM Europe said that it would stop producing the Astra
model in Antwerp after 2010.


The new generation of Astra models would be built at four
European sites -- Bochum in Germany, Ellesmere Port in Britain,
Trollhattan in Sweden and Gliwice in Poland.

