

The economic outlook in the 13 nations sharing the euro is
brighter in 2007 than it has been "for many years," the European
Commission said Thursday, urging members to make reforms to
ensure solid future growth.


"The prospects for continued economic growth in the euro area are
more favourable in 2007 than they have been for many years," the
European Union's executive arm said in an annual statement on the
shared currency bloc.


The eurozone economy grew last year at its fastest pace in six
years, expanding 2.7 percent thanks to a strong recovery in
Germany, the biggest economic power in Europe.


The Commission gave no estimate for how strong it expects growth
to be this year, although it has said that it will raise its
current, official forecast of 2.4 percent, which is due to be
updated on Monday.


"Domestic demand is expected to maintain its relatively strong
momentum," the Commission said, noting broadly favourable
business conditions.


"Global economic growth is likely to moderate somewhat but euro-
area exports are well placed to continue their strong
performance," it added.


EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner Joaquin Almunia
said that while the broad economic updraft was lifting the bloc's
growth, it was also benefitting from difficult reforms made in
the past and that more were needed.


"The euro-area economy's buoyant performance reflects the current
cyclical upturn but also the beneficial effect of... stability-
oriented macroeconomic policies and member states' commitment to
structural reform," he said.


"Policy makers must strike while the iron is hot," he added,
stressing in particular the need to improve public finances while
economic growth was generating strong tax revenues.

