

Guns fell silent Thursday on the Comoros island of Anjouan after
heavy clashes between paramilitary police and the national army
the previous day.


"The situation is calm," said Mourad Taiati, the AU
representative in the Indian Ocean archipelago.


Taiati condemned Wednesday's violence in which fighters loyal to
outgoing Anjouan president Mohamed Bacar attacked federal offices
in the island's capital with heavy weapons, causing no
casualties.


"It is unacceptable that Anjouan can take up arms against the
Comoran army," Taiati told AFP.


Meanwhile, residents of the tiny island said they feared further
clashes.


"The situation is unstable," said Roselyne Manjoo, a hotel
manager.


"Everything is closed, including shops and banks. There is little
traffic," she added.


The clashes forced the closure of the island's airport Wednesday
when Bacar's supporters blocked all main roads leading to the
capital.


Bacar seized power on Anjouan in a coup in August 2001. He was
elected president for a five-year term in March the following
year.


Last week, the Comoros' constitutional court ruled that he had
served his term and nominated an interim president to serve until
elections in June when all three Comoros islands are to elect
their respective presidents.


On Tuesday, the interim president nominated by the court, Kaabi
Houmadi, unveiled his cabinet, prompting Bacar's government to
denounce the move.


Comoros has endured 19 coups or attempted coups since gaining
independence from France in 1975. In 1997, the islands of Anjouan
and Moheli declared independence from Comoros, the main island in
the archipelago.

