

US presidential candidate Barack Obama can trace his roots back
to a small town in central Ireland, a local clergyman claimed
Thursday.


Church of Ireland canon Stephen Neill told AFP there was
"definitive evidence" that an ancestor of the Illinois senator
and Democratic hopeful for the 2008 polls came from his parish.


"It goes six generations back," he said, noting that Obama's
"great, great, great grandfather who travelled over from County
Offaly to the States and subsequently a lot of the rest of the
family followed."


Obama's father, Barack Obama snr, was from Kenya, while his
mother, Ann Dunham, is from Kansas.


Information unearthed by Neill indicates Obama is descended on
his mother's side from Fulmuth or Falmouth Kearney who came from
the town of Moneygall.


Neill said Fulmuth seems to have emigrated to the US in 1850, and
was later followed to the US by his father Joseph, a cobbler, and
his mother Phebe.


"I was contacted late last night by a parishioner who has family
records in which Joseph Carney the shoemaker had been a legal
witness to documents for their family.


"He also personally knew of the location of what was called
Kearney's Paddock in Moneygall. Within that there is the remains
of an old building which is thought to have been where the
(Kearney) shoe shop was. So there seem to be a location which the
family can be tied to."


Neill said evidence of siblings of Obama's ancestors had been
found and he is confident that relatives of the man who hopes to
become American's first black president will turn up in the area,
so there could be a family re-union.


"We would be delighted to have him back at any time regardless of
whether he makes it in the presidential race or not," he said.

