

Alexander Munoz of Venezuela regained the World Boxing
Association (WBA) super flyweight title Thursday when he defeated
holder Nobuo Nashiro by a unanimous points decision.


A Belgian judge counted it 118-109 and an American judge 117-111,
while a Canadian judge scored it 117-112, all in favour of the
Venezuelan.


It was a repeat performance for the 28-year-old Munoz, who became
the champion in March 2002 by beating another Japanese, Celes
Kobayashi, with a technical knockout victory.


Munoz's overall record now stands at 30 wins, including 27 KOs,
against two defeats.


Nashiro connected a left hook to stagger Munoz in the third
round, but Munoz fought back with an array of left jabs and right
upper cuts and made it a lopsided affair after the seventh round,
narrowly missing a knock down.


"I was sure of the victory in the sixth round when I was able to
hit a strong right and left," said Munoz who has never lost to a
Japanese in five bouts.


"Kobayashi was the strongest among them all (Japanese). Nashiro
is still too young and his skills are not enough to beat me,"
added the new champion.


It was Nashiro's first taste of defeat after winning his previous
nine bouts with five KOs.


Nashiro, 25, tied the Japanese record to become the fastest-ever
champion in only his eighth bout beating Martin Castillo of
Mexico in July last year. He defended the title once beating
Eduardo Garcia of Mexico in December.


"I couldn't fight from close range because of his powerful
punches. That's why I was beaten. I'm not going to retire. I must
study the tactics against a boxer like Munos," said Nashiro.

