

A Malaysian employer and his family accused of starving and
torturing an Indian migrant worker and then leaving him for dead
in a remote jungle were Thursday charged with manslaughter,
reports said.


Rajan Tharuman, his wife Ganeswaria Maruthamuthu and their 20
-year-old son Vijaar were charged with causing the death of
Ganesh Kumar Ramamoorthy, 28, from Tamil Nadu, the state Bernama
news agency reported.


The three had allegedly beaten him with wood, rattan canes and
steel chains in northern Penang state, Bernama reported, and
faced up to 20 years in jail if convicted.


A lawyer for the Penang government, Janariah Abdul Mutalib, said
Ganesh, who was employed by Rajan, was abused before he died.


The New Straits Times reported last week that Ganesh was
discovered starving and wounded in a jungle in northern Kedah
state last month.


He was allegedly beaten up, had hot water poured on his body and
was chained without food for 20 days before he was bundled into a
car and dumped in the jungle, where he was later found by nearby
villagers.


He died three days after his plight was highlighted in local
media reports.


Before his death, Ganesh reportedly said he was made to work for
16 hours a day without adequate food or rest in the past eight
months that he was employed by the family.


The trio had previously been accused of abusing an Indonesian
maid in 2005 by pouring hot water on her, but settled the affair
after allegedly paying her off and sending her home, the New
Straits Times reported.


Malaysia is one of the largest importers of foreign labour in
Asia. Foreign workers, both legal and illegal, account for about
2.6 million of its 10.5 million workforce.

