

Russia said Thursday the relocation of a Soviet war monument in
Estonia resulted in "serious consequences" for relations with the
Baltic republic, as pro-Kremlin youths demonstrated outside the
Estonian embassy for the seventh straight day.


Moving the controversial statue in Tallinn "led to seriously
negative consequences for Russian-Estonian relations," Foreign
Minister Sergei Lavrov told Estonian Foreign Minister Urmas Paet
in a telephone conversation, a ministry statement said.


Lavrov rejected Estonian criticism of a noisy and occasionally
violent demonstration by pro-Kremlin youth groups outside the
Estonian embassy.


"The Russian law enforcement bodies are taking all necessary
measures so that the actions of demonstrators... do not exceed
the bounds of the law," he told Paet, according to the statement.


Lavrov also called on Estonia to launch an immediate
investigation into the police handling of riots by mostly ethnic-
Russian youths in Tallinn last week in protest at the relocation
of the controversial World War II monument.


In a separate telephone conversation with German Foreign Minister
Frank-Walter Steinmeier, Lavrov expressed Moscow's "serious
concern over incidents of severe violence against demonstrators
who did not agree with the decision" to move the statue, a
foreign ministry statement said.


Lavrov also criticized the European Union for not condemning
Estonia, saying this "contradicts European values and culture."


The NATO military alliance, the United States and the European
Union have pledged support to NATO and EU member Estonia,
expressing concern over the harrassment of Estonian diplomats in
Russia.


The statue at the heart of the row is seen by Russians as a
memorial to Red Army soldiers who died fighting fascism but by
Estonians as a bitter reminder of 50 years of Soviet occupation.

