

Somalia's business community on Thursday gave up hundreds of
weapons to government and African Union troops at a ceremony in
Mogadishu, one week after the end of the latest clashes in which
hundreds died.


"I am very much delighted and honoured to receive the weapons
from the Somali business community and in return promise to give
security to the people of Mogadishu," said newly-appointed police
chief General Abdi Hassan Awale Qeybdid.


The weapons haul included ammunition, heavy and small machine
guns, and rocket- propelled grenade launchers.


"They bought these weapons in order to protect their property but
they are giving them over for free in order to support the
disarmament plan of the government," Qeybdid said, during the
ceremony at the headquarters of the Somali police force, near
Villa Somalia in southern Mogadishu.


Members of Somalia's major companies, including import-export and
communications firms, agreed to hand over the weapons after the
government promised to guarantee their security at a meeting last
week.


They said they had bought the weapons for protecting shipments,
and also to protect their lives and guard against looters in the
main Bakara market area.


Since the beginning of the year, the Somali capital has seen an
upsurge in clashes between government-backed Ethiopian forces and
Islamist insurgents and clan fighters opposed to their presence.


Efforts to disarm civilians have failed due to the reluctance of
the public to hand over weapons to a government largely seen as
ineffective and unable to guarantee security.


Ethiopian-Somali troops drove out an Islamist movement from
swathes of central and southern Somalia, including Mogadishu, at
the start of the year.

