

A World Bank panel is "leaning" toward a conclusion that bank
president Paul Wolfowitz violated bank rules when he helped
engineer a promotion for his girlfriend, who was then a bank
employee, the New York Times reported Thursday.


The paper, citing unnamed World Bank officials, said the special
investigatory committee would report its findings that Wolfowitz
violated conflict-of-interest rules to the bank's 24-member board
of directors by the end of the week.


It added that Wolfowitz, who has insisted he acted in good faith,
would then be under increased pressure to resign, a step he has
so far refused.


But the Times said it was not clear what the committee would
recommend nor what action the board would take.


Wolfowitz has been under fire since early April for his role in
arranging a pay hike and promotion for his girlfriend, Shaha
Riza, when she was seconded to the US State Department after he
became bank president in June 2005.


Wolfowitz has told the panel he acted on the advice of the bank's
ethics committee in trying to resolve a potential conflict of
interest between himself and Riza.


But bank officials contend that he was never directed to
personally order guaranteed promotions and a pay deal worth
nearly 200,000 dollars for his Libyan-born companion.


The lingering controversy is threatening to hobble the World
Bank's traditional lending and development activities, notably an
anti-corruption campaign targeting beneficiaries of bank
assistance.


The New York Times said officials in Germany, Spain, France, the
Netherlands and the Nordic states have been signalling they would
refuse to approve future donations to loans for some of the
world's poorest countries as long as Wolfowitz remained in power.

