

A rare leopard was photographed for the first time with her young
in Cambodia, the World Wildlife Fund said Thursday in what it
called an encouraging sign for the highly endangered animal.


The big cat's picture was snapped recently when it tripped a
camera trap set up by biologists working with local forest
rangers.


"They are very secretive creatures and incredibly difficult to
see, even with the best guides," said Nick Cox of the WWF's
Greater Mekong office.


"But in the Srepok Wilderness Area of the Mondulkiri protected
forest in northeastern Cambodia, our rangers have had recent
encounters with leopards that would make big cat biologists green
with envy," he added in a statement posted on the WWF's website.


Leopards will only reproduce under the right conditions and the
photographs provide an initial sign of a healthy ecosystem, the
WWF said.


The Srepok Wilderness Area Project (SWAP), a partnership between
the WWF and Cambodian government, brings conservation efforts to
a part of the country where relatively unscathed forests are
threatened by illegal logging, clear-cutting for agriculture and
the animal trade.


The area was largely unprotected until the WWF began working
there in 2002. Since then, the group has tried to integrate local
communities into their projects.


"The project partners are aware that conservation in a country as
poor as Cambodia will only succeed if local people continue to
benefit economically from the Mekong River and its surrounding
forests," the WWF said.


The trade in endangered wildlife flourishes in Cambodia, fueled
by corrupt authorities and weak legislation.


Most of the trafficked animals feed the regional demand for
exotic pets or traditional medicines.

