

Russian mining group Norilsk Nickel on Thursday entered the race
for Canadian nickel producer LionOre, bidding almost five billion
US dollars, around 16.2 percent above a March bid by Anglo-Swiss
group Xstrata.


The bid comes amid a scramble for scarce nickel reserves as
prices hover near all-time highs after hitting 50,200 dollars per
tonne in late April.


Norilsk Nickel is the biggest nickel producer in the world.
LionOre is an international gold and nickel producer with
operations in Australia, Botswana and South Africa.


Norilsk's cash bid of 21.5 Canadian dollars per share values the
company at 5.3 billion Canadian dollars (4.8 US billion dollars,
3.5 billion euros), the company said in a statement.


Xstrata's bid of 18.5 Canadian dollars per share, valued the
company at 4.6 billion Canadian dollars.


At the time Xstrata said it had secured the agreement of a number
of LionOre's shareholders, including among the company's
management, which controls 19 percent.


Norilsk Nickel chief executive Denis Morozov said in Thursday's
statement that the purchase would give his company "greater scale
in key commodities, enhanced geographic diversification and an
exciting pipeline of projects."


The deal would give Norilsk "a long-life and low-cost production
portfolio," he added.


The acquisition will be financed through a combination of
existing cash resources and financing commitments, including
those from BNP Paribas and Societe Generale, Norilsk said.


In November, Norilsk said it had finalized agreement for
acquiring the nickel activities of the US OM Group (OMG) for 408
million dollars in cash.


Nickel prices have tripled in a year as supplies on the London
Metals Exchange fell by about 90 percent to about 1.5 days of
global demand.

