

Asian stocks chalked up further substantial gains Thursday as
another record finish on Wall Street kept the 'feel good' factor
in place after more positive US economic data, dealers said.


They said the main theme remained unchanged -- stronger-than-
expected US factory order figures confirmed an earlier
manufacturing sector report and bolstered faith in the US
economy's ability to get through its current slow patch
unscathed.


If the world's largest economy and the region's most important
export market can keep on track, then concerns about possible
high valuations become less important, with investors
anticipating solid earnings over the balance of the year.


Dealers said that after sharp reverses this year in February and
April, the markets have come back strongly, more than making up
any lost ground as they test record or multi-year highs on an
almost daily basis.


Concerns about a possible sharp US slowdown, overheating in
China, out of line valuations all get a regular hearing but on
balance, investors remain confident the outlook is fundamentally
positive and more gains are to come.


On the day, Hong Kong rose 1.44 percent while Seoul, Sydney,
Kuala Lumpur, Singapore and Jakarta were all at record levels
once again.


Tokyo's closure for a public had little apparent impact.


TOKYO: Closed for a public holiday


HONG KONG: Hong Kong share prices closed 1.44 percent higher,
extending gains on hopes an upcoming government land auction will
attract strong interest from leading developers and push property
prices higher, dealers said.


They said the market also got a strong boost from HSBC, which
continued to benefit from news of a significant investment in the
global baning giant by a private-equity firm owned by Dubai ruler
Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum.


The Hang Seng Index jumped 293.09 points to 20,681.58, off a low
of 20,555.57 and a high of 20,739.03. Turnover was 54.44 billion
dollars (7.0 billion US).


"Interest in property stocks was particularly strong and helped
the market post strong gains," said Castor Pang, strategist at
Sun Hung Kai Financial Group.


"Next week's government land auction is widely expected to draw
strong interest from Hong Kong's leading property developers," he
said.


"With prospects of record prices, sentiment towards the property
market will likely improve and probably boost sales of
apartments," he added.


Pang said the property sector's strong performance was also
driven by lower valuations in the sector relative to other
leading stocks.


"Property stocks have lagged the index in the past week or so and
this has encouraged scores of investors" to build positions in
the sector, he said.


The property sector index closed up 752.73 points or 3.07 percent
at 25,262.08, with Cheung Kong up 3.30 dollars at 106.40 dollars
and Sun Hung Kai Properties up 2.20 at 94.55.


HSBC finished up 1.70 at 147.10.


SEOUL: South Korean share prices closed at an all-time high after
another record finish on Wall Street sparked by stronger-than-
expected US factory orders for March, dealers said.


They said Wall Street's firm showing gave local investors a
reason to buy despite the absence of regional leads, with the
Chinese and Japanese markets closed for holidays.


The market rose well above 1,560 points in early trade before
giving back some of the gains on foreign investor profit-taking.


The KOSPI index ended up 6.56 points or 0.42 percent at 1,559.86,
after trading between 1,555.28 and 1,564.01. The previous best
close was 1,556.71 set on 24th April.


Volume was 244 million shares worth 3.5 trillion won (3.8 billion
dollars).


Rises outpaced falls 454 to 292, with 84 stocks unchanged.


Institutions were net buyers of shares worth 75.1 billion won
while foreign and retail investors were net sellers of 71.3
billion won and 31.3 billion won.


Telecoms, retailers and utilities were among the most sought-
after stocks.


Dealers said Wall Street's firm showing encouraged local buying
in the absence of strong domestic or regional cues, with both
Chinese and Japanese financial markets closed Thursday for public
holidays.


After breaking through 1,560 points in early trade, the KOSPI
pulled back off its highs on some foreign profit-taking, they
noted.


"The market closed at another record high, tracking Wall Street's
gains, with the absence of aggressive sellers underpinning the
rise," Bookook Securities analyst Kim Min-Sung said.


He said the market was expected to consolidate in the coming days
as investors await the outcome of next week's US Federal Reserve
policy meeting as well as the Bank of Korea's own interest rates
decision and an options expiry.


TAIPEI: Taiwan share prices closed 0.30 percent higher on the
back of another Wall Street record finish overnight after data
showed stronger-than-expected US factory orders for March,
dealers said.


Riding on an early rally, investors then offloaded holdings
midmorning in firms which had posted lackluster results in the
first quarter to March.


However, late support for large-cap stocks allowed the benchmark
index to close in positive territory.


The weighted index added 23.62 points at 7,926.66, off a high of
7,965.93 and a low of 7,861.43, on turnover of 119.98 billion
dollars (3.64 billion US).


Decliners led advancers 900 to 308, with 174 stocks unchanged.


Kai Yuan Securities Investment Consultant president Tom Tang said
the volatility in the market was a result of a correction in
stocks following their results and guidance.


Besides interest bolstered by Wall Street, investors were also
willing to add large-cap stocks with a promising outlook to their
portfolio, he said.


"While the benchmark index may hover in the range of 7,800-8,000
points, stocks with solid earnings outlooks or those in
industries which have bottomed out will attract more interest."


SHANGHAI: Closed for a public holiday


SYDNEY: Australian share prices chalked up at another all-time
high, adding 0.13 percent as investors cheered a sustained rally
into record territory on Wall Street overnight, dealers said.


They noted, however, that the gains were modest, reflecting some
caution at chasing stocks too far, too fast, in the current heady
atmosphere.


The resources once again provided solid support, with Rupert
Murdoch's interests attracting attention after his bid for Dow
Jones in the United States, while speculative trade continued
around Qantas ahead of Friday's deadline for a private equity
takeover offer.


The key S&P/ASX 200 added 7.9 points at 6,245.6, surpassing
Wednesday's record finish of 6,237.7. The broader All Ordinaries
index gained 12.4 points to settle at an all-time high of
6,236.9.


Turnvoer was 1.68 billion shares worth 5.42 billion dollars (4.48
billion US), with rises outnumbering falls 689 to 556 and 360
stocks unchanged.


CMC Markets senior dealer James Foulsham said a strong lead from
Wall Street helped propel the Australian bourse into record
territory.


"The materials sector was relatively strong but finance was
holding the market back a bit -- BHP and Rio were strong and
propping it up.


"We saw people being a bit reluctant to buy into the rally and
with it being Friday tomorrow, we might see a little bit of
selling and reducing of positions before the weekend," he said.


SINGAPORE: Singapore share prices powered to a new closing high,
driven by another record Wall Street performance overnight,
dealers said.


The Straits Times Index (STI) climbed 32.83 points or 0.96
percent to 3,450.64 on volume of 6.04 billion shares worth 2.99
billion dollars (1.97 billion US). Gains led declines 477 to 377
with 567 stocks unchanged.


Some dealers said the market could be due for a correction given
the current high valuations.


"Valuations are getting above the mean range but liquidity is at
an all-time high. We think that it's time to be a bit cautious,"
CIMB-GK Research analyst Kenneth Ng said. "On a fundamental
basis, we see less and less value."


But Frasers Securities research head Najeeb Jarhom said the rally
could be extended on hopes for an increase in corporate mergers,
even as some medium- and large-cap stocks correct.


"The STI is on course to move to new highs of around 3,500-3,550
points in the coming weeks," he added.


KUALA LUMPUR: Malaysian share prices hit a fresh record high,
jumping 1.55 percent on news of the largest corporate buy-out in
Southeast Asia and supported by another record run on Wall
Street, dealers said.


They said that with the market closed on Tuesday and Wednesday,
investors were playing catch up after sharp gains in the region
on Wall Street's lead.


The Kuala Lumpur Composite Index gained 20.54 points to a record
1,342.79. The previous best finish was 1,330.26 points set on
17th April.


Volume was 1.66 billion shares worth 3.17 billion ringgit (927
million dollars). Gainers led losers 583 to 325, with 271 stocks
unchanged.


Head of research at TA Securities, Kaladher Govindan, said the
local bourse was responding to the strong performance of US
markets overnight, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average gaining
more than 75 points.


"Basically, the local bourse is playing catch-up with regional
markets which had performed very well (Wednesday)," Govindan
said.


He said the market was also boosted by a move by tycoon Ananda
Krishnan to gain full control of Malaysia's largest mobile
operator Maxis, lauded as the largest corporate deal here and in
the region.


Telekom Malaysia and Digi attracted strong buying interest amid
hopes funds, which had previously invested in Maxis, may switch
to the two telecommunications firms following Maxis'
privatisation, he said.


BANGKOK: Thai share prices closed 0.63 percent higher as
sentiment was upbeat on robust gains across the region, which
followed another record high on Wall Street, dealers said.


They said foreign investor support led the Thai market, driven by
gains in energy-linked shares.


The Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET) composite index rose 4.44
points to 709.91 while the blue-chip SET 50 index added 3.27
points to 500.73.


Losers led gainers 201 to 158, with 132 stocks unchanged on
turnover of 3.6 billion shares worth 17.2 billion baht (500
million dollars).


"Foreign investors led buying as sentiment was positive in line
with strong regional gains and the rising US stock market," said
Thanomsak Saharatchai, a senior market analyst at Capital Nomura
Securities.


US stocks again hit a new record high on Wednesday on a flurry of
news on mergers and takeovers, pushing several Asian markets to
record highs.


"The Thai market was supported by the strong regional markets,"
Thanomsak said, adding investors snapped up energy-linked shares,
which account for nearly 30 percent of the Thai bourse.


JAKARTA: Indonesian share prices closed 0.85 percent higher, with
the main index ending at a new record, as sentiment was bolstered
by Wall Street's strong performance overnight, dealers said.


The Jakarta Stock Exchange composite index rose 17.085 points for
a record close of 2,025.644. The previous high was 2,019.676
points reached on April 27.


Volume was 6.44 billion shares worth 5.33 trillion rupiah (589.15
million dollars). Gainers led losers 108 to 91, with 50 stocks
unchanged.


"I think it was Wall Street's strong showing that helped boost
sentiment here," said Ryan Ariadi Suwarno, an analyst with
Dongsuh Kolibindo.


"At home, we are running out of fresh leads as most companies
have now published their first quarter results."


He said that on valuations, most stocks have reached levels that
make them ripe for profit-taking but the market could still
extend its rally Friday if Wall Street moves up again Thursday.


MANILA: Philippine share prices closed flat as investors cashed
in on early gains and adopted a cautious stance ahead of the
upcoming May 14 mid-term elections, dealers said.


The composite index slipped 0.46 points to 3,271.53 after trading
between 3,263.49 and 3,293.35.The broader all-share index fell
2.14 points to 2,079.56


Gainers and losers were even at 48 each, with 61 stocks
unchanged.


Turnover was 5.8 billion shares worth 3.9 billion pesos (81.71
million dollars).


"Investors were very tentative. They bought stocks in early trade
when the market was moving up but were also quick to take profits
when it became apparent that the market could not get out of the
3,300 points range," said Rommel Macapagal of Westlink Global
Equities.


He said investors also opted to wait for the release next week of
corporate results for the three months to March from the likes of
San Miguel, Philippine Long Distance Telephone (PLDT), Globe
Telecom and Ayala Corp.


Macapagal said the approaching mid-term elections weighed on
sentiment.


WELLINGTON: New Zealand share prices closed 0.37 percent higher,
gaining ground after market leader Telecom recovered from early
losses to put the market within sight of a record finish, dealers
said.


The NZX-50 gross index rose 15.68 points to 4,202.67 on turnover
worth 178.2 million dollars (131.5 million US). Rises outnumbered
falls 59 to 40.


The index hit a record of 4,211.61 points on 7th February.


"It started off very average, held back at the start after the
Telecom announcement ... but since that's come back to an even
keel, the rest of the market's firmed further," said Don
Lewthwaite of First NZ Capital.


Telecom announced a 1.1 billion dollar capital return to
shareholdiers while announcing third quarter results. Nine-month
net profit was 690 million  dollars compared with a loss of 244
million dollars a year earlier.


Telecom closed unchanged at 4.87 dollars, after falling five
cents after the announcement.


"Broadly in line with what we were expecting, and certainly what
the market was expecting in terms of both the earnings and the
capital return, so no shocks whatsoever there," Lewthwaite said.


MUMBAI: Indian share prices closed 1.48 percent higher, led by
Reliance Industries and software stocks as the rupee weakened
against the dollar from last week's nearly decade-high levels,
dealers said.


They said strong overseas fund buying and strong Asian market
inspired fresh buying after a two-day holiday and as the rupee
was quoted at 41.10 against the dollar from levels around 40.60
last week.


The benchmark Mumbai stock exchange 30-share Sensex index rose
205.84 points to 14,078.21.


"Overseas funds were strong players today. We, however, see signs
of overheating and stretched valuations for some stocks," said
Advait Date, dealer with brokerage BHH Securities.


India's largest private sector firm Reliance Industries closed up
63 rupees or 4.04 percent at 1,623.1.

