

State-controlled Rosneft is set to become the biggest oil company
in Russia on Thursday after the expected purchase of key assets
from bankrupted oil group Yukos, Russian newspapers said.


Rosneft, Russia's second-largest producer, is one of two bidders
for Tomskneft and several refineries with a starting price of 6.4
billion dollars (4.7 billion euros) at an auction in Moscow.


The Vedomosti business daily named Rosneft as the favourite to
win.


Yukos was once Russia's largest oil group and its former CEO,
Mikhail Khodorkovsky, the richest man in the country. But
starting in 2003, the group came under a slew of fraud inquiries
and has since been bankrupted to pay back debts.


Critics see a Kremlin-controlled campaign to win back energy
assets for state companies and block the political ambitions of
Khodorkvosky, who is now serving an eight-year prison sentence in
Siberia.


Rosneft has been the main beneficiary of the Yukos asset sales.
In 2004, it bought Yuganskneftegaz, Yukos' biggest production
asset, for a fraction of the price assessed by independent
experts.


The second bidder in Thursday's auction is Unitex, a company that
Vedomosti said was linked to state-run gas giant Gazprom,
Rosneft's main competitor in the Yukos sales.


The sale on Thursday will boost Rosneft's oil reserves and
production capacity as well as giving it access to refining
potential, which it currently lacks.


Earlier on Thursday, PromRegionHolding, a company said by Russian
media to be linked to Lukoil, currently Russia's biggest
producer, bought some smaller Yukos assets in southern Russia for
144.12 million dollars.

