

Nordic banking group Nordea on Thursday announced a 5.4 percent
rise in profits for the first quarter boosted by strong business
volumes, largely meeting analysts' expectations.


The bank reported a net profit of 701 million euros (953 million
dollars), up from 665 million in the same period in 2006.


Total operating income rose by 6.8 percent to 1.873 billion euros
compared to the previous year, in line with analysts' forecasts
of 1.876 billion, according to a poll by market research group
SME Direkt.


Operating profit rose by 4.9 percent to 895 million, from 853
million in 2006.


Nordea reported a strong profit trend in all business areas.
Return on equity was 18 percent compared to 20 percent the
previous year, a drop of 10 percent.


The group saw its total expenses climb by six percent to 992
million euros, up from 933 million in 2006.


"The increase is a result of Nordea's growth ambition and
prioritised investments in certain areas with sizeable potential,
as well as an increase in variable salaries," the bank said.


Without these two factors total expenses increased by less than
four percent. Staff costs increased by eight percent.


The Nordea share was down by 1.99 percent to 113.30 kronor on the
Stockholm stock exchange in midday trading.


Commenting on the outlook for 2007, Nordea said it was
"confident" and believed "strong revenue growth will continue in
2007."


The group said it expected the cost increase for the full-year
2007 to be similar to that of 2006, around four to five percent.
The gap between revenue and cost growth was expected to be three
to four percentage-points.


Nordea also announced that Christian Clausen had succeded Lars
Nordstroem as the group's chief executive on April 13.


Nordstroem, 51, was previously head of the asset management and
life division and since 2001 a member of Nordea's executive
management.

