

Wall Street shares were mixed Thursday morning after auto giant
General Motors announced worse-than-expected profits, largely due
to heavy mortgage lending losses.


At 1433 GMT, the Dow Jones Industrial Average was down a slight
2.12 points (0.02 percent) at 13,209.76, after opening higher and
closing at a record 13,211.88 points a day earlier.


Wednesday's close marked the blue-chip index's 17th record close
this year and 21st gain in 24 days.


The tech-heavy Nasdaq composite Thursday meanwhile gained 4.39
points (0.17 percent) to 2,562.23, and the broad-market Standard
& Poor's 500 index was up 2.88 points (0.19 percent) to
1,498.80.


The S&P had closed at its highest level since September 2000
on Wednesday.


"The market is clearly running ahead of the fundamentals. Some
justify this on the idea that the price/earnings multiple is low
and there is room for it to rise," said Dick Green, a president
at Briefing.com.


Stocks have gained in recent weeks amid a flurry of upbeat
earnings reports and a recent deal-making binge, especially
stoked by private equity firms. The economic outlook is more
gloomy, however, amid a housing slump and slowing economic
growth.


Traders said they were also awaiting a key job market report due
to be released Friday morning which will give an update on April
employment. Most analysts expect monthly hiring to have slowed to
around 100,000 nonfarm payroll positions.


On the earnings front, GM reported first-quarter net profit of 62
million dollars, compared with 602 million in the same period a
year earlier.


GM's latest results excluding special items were 17 cents per
share, much weaker than Wall Street forecasts which had
anticipated 84 cents per share.


The car maker largely tied its weaker profits to a loss at its
GMAC financial arm of 305 million dollars compared with a profit
of 495 million a year earlier, mainly due to troubled home loans.


GM's shares were down a hefty 1.06 dollars (3.3 percent) at 31.38
dollars. Rival Ford was up three cents at 8.20 dollars while US-
listed shares of DaimlerChrysler were down 1.18 dollars at 80.66
dollars.


Bond prices were lower. The yield on the 10-year US Treasury bond
increased to 4.658 percent from 4.646 percent Wednesday and that
on the 30-year bond edged up to 4.828 percent against 4.819
percent. Bond yields and prices move in opposite directions.

