

Uganda and the rebel Lord's Resistance Army have signed a deal
setting targets on what must be achieved at ongoing peace talks
in order to end a two-decade conflict, both sides confirmed
Thursday.


The foes agreed on "principles of comprehensive solutions to the
political, social and economic problems in Uganda," rebel
spokesman Godfrey Ayoo told AFP.


Army spokesman Felix Kulaije confirmed that a deal was signed
late Wednesday, before the talks adjourned for one week.


Key to the agreement is the Ugandan people's right to exercise
universal principles of democracy.


"This agreement is not a solution to the problems in Uganda, but
a torch that will guide us to reach durable solutions. It sets
targets on what must be achieved at the peace talks," Ayoo said.


The talks that resumed last month in Juba, capital of the semi-
autonomous region of southern Sudan, are seen as the best chance
to end the conflict that has claimed tens of thousands of lives
and displaced nearly two million others.


Apart from an oft-violated truce that was signed in August, the
deal is the second key achievement made at the talks that first
opened in July last year amid mounting revulsion for the impact
of the clashes.


They stalled in December when the rebels walked out, citing fears
for their lives.


In addition, Ayoo said both sides were planning a large
conference, involving delegates from a broad section of Ugandan
society.


The talks have adjourned for a week to allow parties to consult
on the next agenda -- justice and accountability -- expected to
be stormy since rebel supremo Joseph Kony and four top commanders
have been indicted by the International Criminal Court for war
crimes.


The Ugandan conflict has raged since 1988, when the elusive Kony
took leadership of a two-year-old regional rebellion among
northern Uganda's ethnic Acholi minority.

