

Spain should send reinforcements to Afghanistan to help put out
growing Taliban violence in the west of the country, a Spanish
military commander in Afghanistan said Thursday in a newspaper
interview.


"The greater the military presence, the easier it will be to
guarantee security," Colonel Miguel Garcia de las Hijas, chief of
general staff of the NATO-led International Security Assistance
Forces (ISAF) in western Afghanistan, told El Pais.


In March Socialist Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero
said Spain would keep its contingent of some 700 troops in
Afghanistan but would not raise its troop numbers despite calls
from NATO officials for reinforcements.


Afghanistan's western province of Herat near the border with
Iran, where ISAF has stationed Spanish and Italian troops, had
been relatively calm until recently, compared to the south and
east, where the Taliban are most active.


But in recent weeks Taliban militants have become more active in
the region.


"When the thaw clears the mountains, making the movement of
rebels easier, we will need another rapid reaction force company
in Herat," Garcia de las Hijas told the left-leaning Spanish
daily.


"The troops would be under less pressure and it would be easier
to maintain equipment," he added.


The fundamentalist Taliban sheltered Al-Qaeda chief Osama bin
Laden and were ousted by US-led forces in 2001 after the
September 11 attacks on the United States but have since
regrouped to lead a bloody insurgency.


ISAF has about 37,000 troops in Afghanistan that are supporting
the  government of President Hamid Karzai. Separately, there are
also around 11,000 US-led troops in Afghanistan.

