

One of Spain's most popular singers has been detained suspected
of money laundering as part of a corruption probe that has led to
nearly 100 arrests since last year, police said Thursday.


Isabel Pantoja, who has released over 25 flamenco-themed albums
since the 1970s, appeared before an investigating judge at a
court in the southern resort town of Marbella on Thursday after
spending the night in jail.


Spanish authorities seized more than two billion euros (2.7
billion US dollars) in property and cash as part of their year-
long probe into the alleged payments of bribes in return for
building permits dubbed "Operation Malaya".


Pantoja's romantic partner and the former mayor of Marbella,
Julian Munoz, who stands accused of bribery and embezzlement, are
among the people arrested so far as part of the investigation.


Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, who faces local
elections on May 27 and a general election next year, said
Wednesday in Marbella that the government would take a hardline
approach to corruption.


"Neither this country nor its people nor their government is
going to tolerate any corruption," he told a local election
rally.


Pantoja's private life frequently finds its way into Spain's
gossip magazines and her detention dominated headlines on
Thursday.


The 50-year-old -- who has sold over four million albums
worldwide -- was married to famous Spanish bullfighter Francisco
"Paquirri" Rivera who was gored to death by a bull in the ring in
1984.


She also faces allegations in Peru that she paid bribes to speed
up the adoption in 2002 of her daughter Chavelita.

