

An Irish teenager seeking to travel to Britain for an abortion
took her case to the High Court in Dublin Thursday, in a new
challenge to the Catholic country's strict laws.


The teenager, known only as Miss D, is four months pregnant and
has recently learned that her child suffers from a condition
where it is only expected to live for days outside the womb.


Eoghan Fitzsimons, a barrister representing the girl said that
the Health Service Executive (HSE) wrote to police last month to
ask them to prevent the girl from travelling.


But the police wrote to the HSE saying they did not intend to
stop her without a court order, according to RTE state radio.


Abortion is currently illegal in Ireland under an 1861 British
law except where there is a real and substantial risk to the life
of the mother, including suicide.


The law does not permit abortion on grounds of foetal
abnormality.


Every year over 6,000 Irish women travel to British clinics to
have an abortion.


After another teenage pregnancy in 1992 a constitutional
referendum granted women a right to travel for an abortion.


In the current case however, the girl's constitutional right to
travel is complicated by the fact that she is a minor in care,
and that she is not said to be suicidal.


Judges have repeatedly called on politicians to legislate on
abortion and update the 1861 law but they have shied away from
doing so.


The so-called D-case has arisen in the first week of a general
election campaign with Prime Minister Bertie Ahern seeking a
record third term for his Fianna Fail-Progressive Democrats
coalition.


Abortion has been one of the most debated issues in Irish
politics and has been a hugely contentious issue in the country
for decades.

