

A 24-hour strike by Alitalia cabin personnel demanding the
renewal of their collective bargaining convention grounded nearly
400 flights, the struggling Italian flagship airline said
Thursday.


Of the airline's 711 flights scheduled Wednesday, 202 domestic
and 154 international flights were cancelled, with a knock-on
effect Thursday that saw a further 35 flights cancelled, the
company said in a statement.


Seven unions representing cabin personnel called the strike after
negotiations broke down last week with management over the
renewal of their convention.


Union leader Claudio Genovesi said Wednesday that a new meeting
with management was set for next Tuesday.


Alitalia has been suffering deep financial difficulties for
several years, showing a loss of 405 million euros in (549
million dollars) in 2006, while turnover shrank by 1.5 percent to
4.7 billion euros.


The Italian government has a 49.9 percent stake in Alitalia and
plans to sell at least 39.9 percent which would then force the
buyer to make an offer for the rest of the company.


Lack of room for manoeuvre in restructuring the carrier in the
face of strong unions ever prepared to stage crippling strikes is
a major liability facing an eventual buyer, analysts believe.


Three main bidders have emerged, including Russian airline
Aeroflot, a consortium of private equity groups and the owner of
Italian airline Air One.


The cost of taking over Alitalia is estimated at about 1.5
billion euros -- its current stock market capitalisation -- plus
the cost of renewing its ageing fleet of 183 aircraft and
assuming its debt of about one billion euros.

