

The European single currency hit another record high against the
Japanese yen on Thursday, as investors continued to be drawn by
higher interest rates in the 13-nation eurozone, dealers said.


The dollar meanwhile eased against the euro on the eve of an all-
important US jobs report.


In early European trading, the euro touched a record peak of
163.60 yen, compared with 163.19 yen late in New York on
Wednesday. The euro firmed to 1.3607 dollars, from 1.3590 dollars
previously.


The dollar stood at 120.14 yen, compared with 120.08 yen.


The new euro/yen pinnacle came despite Japanese markets being
closed on Thursday and Friday for a public holiday, dealers said.


"Although trading in the yen was less than usual during the Asian
trading session due to the 'Golden Week' holiday in Japan, the
yen has managed once again to grab the headlines with the
euro/yen setting a new record high," said Derek Halpenny, senior
currency economist at The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi.


He added: "Much is made of the interest rate differential
argument and how this has undermined the yen."


The European single currency is strengthening against its rivals
on optimism about growth prospects for the 13-nation eurozone,
amid weak data in the United States and Japan.


That means dealers expect the European Central Bank to hike rates
in the coming months from the current level of 3.75 percent, in
contrast with the increased likelihood of borrowing costs not
rising elsewhere.


That makes eurozone assets even more attractive, enticing
investors to switch from other currencies -- such as the yen --
into the euro.


All eyes are now on Friday's US non-farm payrolls report, seen as
one of the best indicators for further clues on the health of the
United States economy.


The market was expecting the report to show 100,000 new jobs
created, but a weaker figure might lead to a fresh sell-off in
the dollar, dealers said.


"Amid market concern over a weak employment report on Friday, the
dollar should continue to consolidate in a tight range, with any
gains ... limited to the 1.3520 area in euro/dollar," Commerzbank
analyst Gavin Friend said.


The euro has fallen against the greenback since striking an all
time high of 1.3682 dollars last Friday.


But Friend added: "In the coming days and weeks, the dollar will
resume its gradual decline towards 1.38 dollars."


The euro changed hands at 1.3607 dollars, against 1.3590 dollars
late Wednesday, 163.47 yen (163.19), 0.6829 pounds (0.6830) and
1.6484 Swiss francs (1.6496).


The dollar stood at 120.14 yen (120.08) and 1.2115 Swiss francs
(1.2137).


The pound was being traded at 1.9928 dollars (1.9893).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold rose to 675.75
dollars per ounce, from 669.50 dollars late on Wednesday.

