

French pharmaceutical group Sanofi-Aventis published better than
expected first quarter results on Thursday, boosted by sales of
its Ambien sleeping pill and a recovery in sales of its anti-
platelet agent Plavix in the United States.


Its adjusted net profit came to 2.117 billion euros (2.880
billion dollars), a drop of 2.6 percent compared to 2.173 billion
a year earlier.


When extraordinary items are taken out of the equation the
adjusted net profit increased by 11.8 percent to 1.909 billion
euros, above market expectations.


Sales in the first quarter were 7.177 billion euros, up 6.9
percent on a like- for-like basis.


The group said earnings per share in the first quarter and
adjusted for certain items came in at 1.41 euros, up from 1.27 a
year earlier, thanks largely to the reversal of a total of 223
million euros in financial provisions.


The company has faced stiff competition from generic drugs. Its
sales of Plavix, an antiplatelet agent used to reduce the risks
of strokes and heart attacks drug, collapsed after a generic
version was put on the market, before recovering after the
generic was banned by the US authorities.


The group is also looking to put its anti-obesity drugs Acomplia
on the United States market at the end of the year, executive
vice president Hanspeter Spek told a tele-news conference.


The group in addition reiterated its interest in making
acquisitions in Japan.


In Paris in late morning trade Sanofi shares had shed 1.29
percent to 67.48 euros. The overall CAC 40 index was down 0.13
percent.

