

Saudi Arabia's King Abdullah opened a summit between the leaders
of Sudan and Chad on Thursday in a bid to repair damaged
relations between the two states.


The meeting began as press reports from Khartoum said the two
sides had agreed in principle to form a joint border force and to
deploy observers.


Relations between the two countries nosedived after deadly border
clashes between Sudanese and Chadian soldiers took place on April
9, in and around the war-torn Darfur region.


Sudan and Chad accuse each other of supporting rebel forces in
their respective territories amid international fears that the
continuing strife in Sudan's western Darfur region will spill
over into Chad and ignite a regional war.


The Saudi news channel Al-Ekhbariya showed King Abdullah hosting
the Sudanese and Chadian leaders in Janadriyah, 40 kilometres (25
miles) northeast of Riyadh.


The official Saudi news agency SPA said King Abdullah held talks
in Riyadh on Wednesday with the Chadian president.


The two leaders discussed regional, Islamic and international
developments, as well as ways of enhancing cooperation, SPA said.


Chad in November accused groups in Saudi Arabia, as well as
neighbouring Sudan, of supporting Chadian rebels in their recent
attempt to overthrow the government.


It said in a letter addressed to the UN Security Council that
certain influential circles close to the Saudi royal family were
"helping to recruit and equip the young mercenaries linked to the
mysterious Al-Qaeda on behalf of the Chadian rebellion."


In Khartoum, the press reported that a meeting of Sudanese,
Chadian, Libyan and Eritrean officials had been held in line with
recommendations made during recent bilateral meetings in Tripoli.


The reports gave no details on the composition or role of the
joint force, but said observers would report any border
violations to an office of the joint commission to be set up in
the Libyan capital.


One of the reports said Sudan was ready to "re-establish
cooperation with Chad and put an end to tensions on the border."

