

The Philippine government will maintain a ban on sending any more
Filipinos to work in Nigeria following the latest kidnapping of
eight nationals, the department of foreign affairs in Manila said
Thursday.


This follows the attack on a construction camp run by South
Korean firm Daewoo Engineering and Construction before dawn on
Thursday, and the kidnapping of three South Korean executives,
eight Filipino workers and a local driver.


The managers of the camp had moved the remaining Filipinos to a
safer place following the latest attack, the department said.


A consular team from the Philippine embassy in the Nigerian
capital, Abuja, had also been dispatched to the area to
investigate the kidnappings.


Foreign affairs undersecretary Esteban Conejos said he would
recommend to the labour secretary that the ban on sending workers
to Nigeria remained.


The Philippines imposed the ban earlier this year after 25
Filipino workers were abducted in separate incidents. All of the
hostages were later freed unharmed.


President Gloria Arroyo eased the ban in March, allowing workers
with unfinished contracts to return to Nigeria. Conejos could not
say if the ban would be tightened once more.


He said there were originally 81 Filipinos working at the
construction site, but 28 had returned to the Philippines because
of security concerns.


The remaining 53 Filipinos were also supposed to return, but
decided to stay after signs the situation in Nigeria was
stabilising, Conejos said.


Nigeria is one of the biggest employers of Filipino workers in
Africa, with some 3,900 Filipinos employed there at the end of
2006.


About eight million Filipinos, or almost 10 percent of the
population, work abroad and their remittances are a major pillar
of the country's economy.

