

Europe's main stock exchanges showed mixed fortunes in morning
trade on Thursday, with London higher on strong earnings news
while the Frankfurt and Paris indices were slightly down.


London's FTSE 100 index jumped 0.35 percent to 6,507.00 points,
in Frankfurt the DAX 30 fell 0.21 percent to 7,439.96 points and
the Paris CAC 40 eased 0.07 percent to 5,985.67.


The euro stood at 1.3610 dollars.


Wall Street's blue-chip index hit a fresh record closing high
overnight, as a flurry of news on mergers and takeovers helped US
stocks keep upward momentum Wednesday, dealers said.


In London, Anglo-Dutch food giant Unilever headed the FTSE 100
early on, jumping 4.76 percent to 1,630 pence after posting
first-quarter numbers that were ahead of market expectations.


Pretax profit came in at 1.332 billion euros (1.813 billion
dollars), compared with 1.31 billion euros the previous year.


Another Anglo-Dutch group, energy giant Royal Dutch Shell,
climbed 1.60 percent to 1,836 pence. Shell posted a 6.0-percent
rise in first-quarter profits, helped by better performances at
its refinery and chemical units.


However group revenue fell, hit by lower output and weaker oil
prices, the world's second biggest energy group revealed.


Shell said net profit climbed to 7.281 billion dollars (5.351
billion euros) during the first three months of 2007 compared
with the first quarter of 2006.


Elsewhere, British American Tobacco shares won 1.59 percent to
1,595 pence after the group posted a near 10.0 percent rise in
first-quarter profit thanks to cost savings and an "excellent"
showing by operations in emerging markets.


The share price earlier Thursday struck a record 1,620 pence.


Across the Atlantic, the Dow Jones Industrial Average climbed
0.58 percent to close at 13,211.88 points, as the blue-chip index
posted its 17th record close this year and 21st gain in 24 days.


The tech-heavy Nasdaq composite rallied 1.04 percent to 2,557.84
points, holding at a six-year high.


The broad-market Standard Poor's 500 index rose 0.65 percent to
1,495.92 points, its strongest level since September 2000.


In Asia, Hong Kong's key Hang Seng Index closed 1.44-percent
higher at 20,681.58 points, extending gains on hopes an upcoming
government land auction will attract strong interest from leading
developers and push property prices higher, dealers said.


Tokyo was shut until Monday owing to a four-day holiday weekend
across Japan.

