

US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice is to meet her Syrian
counterpart Walid Muallem on Thursday on the sidelines of a
conference on Iraq, a senior state department official told
reporters.


"I expect they will have a discussion on border security issues.
We'll see if it happens," the official said on condition of
anonymity.


When queried by reporters, Muallem implicitly confirmed the
meeting and said only that it would happen "later" Thursday.


The last high-ranking US official to hold talks with Syrian
officials was then deputy secretary of state Richard Armitage,
who travelled to Damascus in January 2005.


Asked what Rice would do if the issue of Lebanon came up, the US
official said she would emphasise the US position.


"She will state the American policy and it is that the Lebanese
government, Lebanese independence and the tribunal are not for
discussion," the official said.


The United States accuses Syria of backing the Lebanese Shiite
movement Hezbollah which is campaigning to replace the government
of Prime Minister Fuad Siniora.


Hezbollah is trying to thwart the establishment of a UN-backed
special court to investigate the February 2005 assassination of
former Lebanese premier Rafiq Hariri in its present form.


Hariri was a strong opponent of Syria's long domination of
Lebanon and many believe Damascus was behind his murder,
something it strongly denies.


Syria has denied that arms are making their way over the border
into Lebanon and warned against any moves to station
international troops along the frontier.


Damascus occupied Lebanon for 30 years until being forced by
popular protests to withdraw following Hariri's assassination.

