

French centrist Francois Bayrou said in an interview Thursday
that he will not vote for rightwinger Nicolas Sarkozy in this
weekend's presidential election but did not throw his support
behind Segolene Royal.


"As it stands now, I do not know what I will do, but I know what
I will not do," Bayrou said in an interview with Le Monde ahead
of Sunday's vote.


"I will not vote for Sarkozy," he said.


Bayrou also said Royal "had done rather well" in the television
debate against Sarkozy on Wednesday evening during which she
angrily accused him of "political immorality."


Bayrou won the third place in the April 22 first round of voting
and his 6.8 million voters hold the key to victory for socialist
Royal who is trailing behind Sarkozy in the polls.


The 55-year-old former education minister said Sarkozy "could
further rip the social fabric apart", maintaining his harsh
criticism of the former interior minister.


Bayrou earlier this week warned that Sarkozy's "taste for
intimidation and threats" meant that he would "concentrate power
as it has never been" in the presidency.


Twenty-one of the 29 elected members of Bayrou's small Union for
French Democracy (UDF) party have joined Sarkozy's camp.


Bayrou, who had campaigned on a platform that rejected the left-
right political divide, held a televised debate with Royal on
Saturday that was seen as a bid by the socialist to win over his
middle-ground voters.


Most polls show Royal will pick up more votes from Bayrou
supporters than Sarkozy but not enough to win ultimate victory.
Almost a third of centrist voters have yet to make up their
minds, or plan to abstain.

