

Batsman Marlon Samuels has been dropped for the 15-strong West
Indies squad that will play four Tests against England starting
this month.


Samuels headlines the list of four active players who took part
in the World Cup who have missed out on the trip to England, the
others being Kieron Pollard, Lendl Simmons and Dwayne Smith,
while Brian Lara has retired.


Samuels, who played in eight of the Windies' nine World Cup
matches at an average of 30, is at the centre of an ICC and
police investigation into alleged links with an Indian bookmaker,
but no reasons were given by the West Indies board as to why he
was omitted from the squad.


Fidel Edwards, Daren Ganga, Sylvester Joseph, and Runako Morton
have been recalled after missing out on World Cup selection.


Also included are the uncapped Ravi Rampaul and Darren Sammy,
while the claims of Pedro Collins and Jermaine Lawson, two more
members of "the old guard", have been overlooked.


"We have made some changes, and we feel we have the right mix,
and we are hoping that this mix will start the ball rolling as
far as the redevelopment or redefining of West Indies cricket for
the future," said convenor of selectors, Gordon Greenidge.


"We don't want to have players totally out of their depth. We
want to know that we can still compete even if we do not win the
series, at least give a good account of ourselves."


A different squad will be named for the two Twenty/20 games and
three one-day internationals.


Test squad


Ramnaresh Sarwan (capt), Dwayne Bravo, Shivnarine Chanderpaul,
Corey Collymore, Fidel Edwards, Daren Ganga, Christopher Gayle,
Sylvester Joseph, Runako Morton, Daren Powell, Denesh Ramdin,
Ravi Rampaul, Devon Smith, Darren Sammy, Jerome Taylor


West Indies tour of England schedule


May 12-14: v Somerset, Taunton


May 17-21: v ENGLAND, 1ST TEST, Lord's


May 25-29: v ENGLAND, 2ND TEST, Headingley


Jun 01-03: v MCC, Durham


Jun 07-11: v ENGLAND, 3RD TEST, Old Trafford


Jun 15-19: v ENGLAND, 4TH TEST, Riverside


Jun 21:    v England A, New Road


Jun 24:    v Derbyshire, Twenty20, Derby


Jun 26:    v PCA Masters, Twenty20, Arundel


Jun 28:    v ENGLAND, 1ST TWENTY20, The Oval


Jun 29:    v ENGLAND, 2ND TWENTY20, The Oval


Jul 01:    v ENGLAND, 1ST ODI, Lord's


Jul 04:    v ENGLAND, 2ND ODI, Edgbaston


Jul 07:    v ENGLAND, 3RD ODI, Trent Bridge

