

The Pakistan Cricket Board has named a new selection committee
following the country's recent shock exit from the World Cup,
officials said Wednesday.


Former Test off-spinner Salahuddin Ahmad was appointed as new
chief selector, with Shafqat Rana and Saleem Jafer, also former
Test players, both members of the committee.


PCB chairman Nasim Ashraf "in consultation with the ad-hoc
committee members has approved the new selection committee for a
tenure of two years," a board spokesman told the official
Associated Press of Pakistan news agency.


They were appointed on a full-time, paid basis, a PCB press
release said.


Pakistan's previous selectors resigned en masse after their World
Cup debacle in the Caribbean and the murder of their coach Bob
Woolmer a day after the country lost to minnows Ireland.


The PCB is also looking for a replacement for captain Inzamam-ul-
Haq, who stood down after the fiasco. Vice-captain Younis Khan
has already turned down the top job.


Two top PCB sources said young batsman Shoaib Malik had been
chosen for the job. The sources said the decision on the
captaincy had been made before the appointment of the selection
committee.


For home series, the selectors will choose the final 11 players
in consultation with the team captain.


But for foreign tours, the selectors would choose the squad and
the final 11 would be picked by a tour selection committee
comprising the team manager, coach, captain and vice captain, the
board spokesman said.


Malik's appointment is expected to be announced on Thursday when
the PCB chairman and the new selection committee will hold a
press briefing in the eastern city of Lahore.

