

The euro surged past 1.36 dollars for the first time since
December 2004 on Wednesday while sterling hit a near 26-year high
against the against the dollar on fears for US economic
prospects.


The weakened dollar "reflects a combination both of concerns
about the US economy ... and at the same time the contrasting
strength of the European economy which is growing much more
rapidly," Capital Economics analyst Jonathan Loynes said in
London.


"Those concerns have been reflected in expectations for interest
rates," he added.


Owing to strengthening European economies, particularly in
Germany, the market is forecasting higher interest rates for the
eurozone and Britain in the coming months.


The euro reached as high as 1.3616 dollars in early European
trading before falling back to 1.3576 against 1.3564 late Tuesday
in New York.


The pound sterling struck 2.0133 dollars to reach its highest
reading since June 1981. It later traded at 2.0040 against 2.0063
on Tuesday.


"Pound strength continues to build following yesterday's
(Tuesday's) historic move above 2.00 dollars on the back of the
stronger than expected" British inflation data, ABN Amro analyst
Peter Frank said.


The inflation data increased expectations that British interest
rates will soon be increased to contain activity and price rises.


Meanwhile the eurozone, and particularly the German economy, is
showing unexpectedly strong growth despite the strength of the
euro, which can increase the price of exports on foreign markets
and dampen overall economic activity.


The European Commission last week forecast that the eurozone
would keep up a quick pace of growth while broadly sticking to
previous estimates.


The EU's executive arm forecast growth of 0.4-0.8 percent for the
first three months of this year, 0.4-0.9 percent for the second
quarter and 0.3-0.9 percent for the third quarter.


At the same time the IMF said the United States was experiencing
a "growth pause."


The International Monetary Fund predicted in its semi-annual
World Economic Outlook report that the US economy would expand at
a tepid 2.2 percent pace in 2007 as downturns in housing and
manufacturing remain drags on growth.


Growth in the eurozone is foreseen at 2.3 percent this year,
eclipsing momentum in the United States for the first time since
2001.


The dollar has been hit also by softer-than-expected US core
inflation data for March, published on Tuesday, which prompted
renewed speculation that the US Federal Reserve may lower
interest rates later this year, dealers said.


In the United States and Britain, the key rates stand at 5.25
percent. The main interest rate is at 3.75 percent in the
eurozone and 0.50 percent in Japan.


An increase in interest rates tends to attract foreign short-term
deposits, thereby increasing demand for the domestic currencies
and increasing their values on the foreign exchange market.


"With the currencies like the British pound, euro and Japanese
yen looking to benefit from rate hikes in the near future, the
greenback is starting to lose its appeal in the global market,"
said John Kicklighter at Forex Capital Markets.


Analysts expect the Bank of England to increase British interest
rates by a quarter-point to 5.50 percent in May and further still
before the end of 2007 after official data published Tuesday
showed British annual inflation had surged to a decade-high above
3.0 percent in March.


Sterling's all-time high against the dollar is 2.4546 dollars,
reached in 1980.


The euro was changing hands at 1.3576 dollars, against 1.3564
dollars late on Tuesday, 160.56 yen (161.29), 0.6773 pounds
(0.6760) and 1.6363 Swiss francs (1.6402).


The dollar stood at 118.28 yen (118.90) and 1.1971 Swiss francs
(1.2086).


The pound was being traded at 2.0040 dollars (2.0063).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold edged up to
688.75 dollars per ounce from 688.00 dollars late on Tuesday.

