

Britain's Mark Cavendish claimed his biggest road race win to
date by outsprinting Australian ace Robbie McEwen in the
Scheldeprijs Vlaanderen semi- classic on Wednesday.


T-Mobile's Cavendish thus succeeds Belgium's former world
champion Tom Boonen as the Scheldeprijs champion on the day the
race celebrated its 100th birthday.


The 21-year-old from the Isle of Man, who won Commonwealth Games
track gold in the men's scratch race in Melbourne last year,
inched past McEwen in the closing metres of the mainly flat 197km
race to seal a surprise victory.


McEwen, who rides for the Predictor-Lotto team, had to settle for
second ahead of some other notable sprinters such as Belgian Gert
Steegmans, Australians Graeme Brown and Baden Cooke and German
great Erik Zabel.


Cavendish's last notable victory on the road came in last year's
Tour of Britain, where he won the jersey for the sprinters'
points competition and sealed his contract with the German
outfit.


It is the second major victory inside a week for T-Mobile's
promising bunch of young guns, after Marcus Burghardt won Ghent-
Wevelgem last Wednesday ahead of British teammate Roger Hammond.


Scheldeprijs Vlaanderen features on the International Cycling
Union (UCI) sanctioned Europe Tour, which is one level down from
the Pro Tour.


However the race attracts most of Europe's big name sprinters -
as well as being won twice by Boonen, it has also been won by the
likes of Zabel, Mario Cipollini, Eddy Merckx and Roger De
Vlaeminck.

