

Russia will not support any UN Security Council resolution on the
future of Kosovo that does not have the backing of Serbia,
Moscow's UN envoy said Wednesday.


"It is clear that Russia would not support a resolution that
would force a decision on the future status of Kosovo that Serbia
did not support," Vitaly Churkin told Russian journalists via a
video link from New York.


While he did not specify whether Russia would use its Security
Council veto against an independence plan for the province
unveiled by UN chief mediator Martti Ahtisaari late last month,
he insisted no decision could be made without further talks
between the Serbs and the Kosovo Albanians.


"We are not laying down a timetable for talks, but just saying
that further talks are necessary," he said.


The Ahtisaari plan, endorsed by Kosovo Albanians, the European
Union and the United States, is to be debated in the coming
weeks, probably next month, by the Security Council, which must
decide Kosovo's future status.


Although Russia and Serbia have both voiced opposition to the
plan in its current form, no alternative has been drawn up,
Churkin said.


He said getting the balance right was vital as the resolution to
the Kosovo issue would likely be seized upon as a precedent by
independence movements.


"The question has very serious international consequences around
the whole world," he said. "Everywhere where there are
territorial problems related with separatism, people are looking
at Kosovo."

