

The United States turned to allied governments Wednesday to help
press Iran for information about a former FBI agent who
disappeared more than a month ago during a visit to the Islamic
Republic, a senior official said.


Washington, which has no diplomatic relations with Tehran, has
approached Iran three times using Switzerland as an intermediary
to obtain information on the whereabouts of Robert Levinson.


While an Iranian government spokesman said Tuesday in Tehran that
the government had no information on Levinson's whereabouts,
State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said Wednesday that
Washington had received no "substantive" response from the
Iranians on the matter.


"We are, starting today, going to approach other governments that
have diplomatic relations with Iran to see if they know anything
about Mr. Levinson's welfare and whereabouts and to make
inquiries on his behalf as well," he said.


McCormack declined to say how many or which countries the US had
approached for help.


He said the government had taken the step "because we have not
heard back from the Iranians regarding our formal inquiry and
request that they provide information regarding Mr Levinson."


"We think they have had sufficient time to do so," he said.


Levinson, who retired from the FBI in the late 1990s and was
working as a private consultant, disappeared after traveling to
the Iranian Gulf resort of Kish island in Iran early March,
according to US authorities.


On Monday, McCormack said US officials had determined that
Levinson had arrived in Kish -- a major resort and consumer duty-
free trade zone that US citizens do not need a visa to visit --
and that there is no record of him having left Iran.


He also expressed the hope that tensions between Iran and the
United States, including over Tehran's alleged support for anti-
US forces in Iraq and its suspected nuclear weapons program,
would not hinder cooperation in the effort to find Levinson.

