

German auto giant Volkswagen said Wednesday that bottom-line
profits more than doubled in the first three months of the
current year on the back of stronger demand for its cars and
successful restructuring measures.


VW said in a statement it booked net profit of 740 million euros
(one billion dollars) in the period from January to March, up
from 327 million euros a year earliier.


Operating profit jumped by 81.1 percent to 1.085 billion euros on
a 5.1-percent increase in revenues to 26.64 billion euros in the
three-month period.


As reported on Tuesday, unit sales were up 7.9 percent at 1.47
million vehicles, the statement said.


VW noted that the strong earnings growth rates "should be seen in
the light of the relatively low comparative figures for the first
quarter of 2006."


Restructuring measures already began to bear fruit in the latter
part of last year so that earnings in the second, third and
fourth quarters of 2006 were noticeably higher.


That meant the strong first-quarter growth rates were unlikely to
be matched in the subsequent quarters.


Nevertheless, "we continue to assume that full-year operating
profit in 2007 will probably be higher than" the 2006 figure, VW
said.


On Tuesday, VW reported a 7.9-percent rise in unit sales in the
first three months of 2007, as a dent in sales in the car maker's
home German market, related to the steep increase in value-added
or sales tax (VAT) from January 1, was offset by a sharp rise in
unit sales in other markets.


Particularly pleasing was growth in China, chief executive Martin
Winterkorn had said.


"All brands contributed to these excellent results," he said. "We
will meet our sales targets for this year in spite of difficult
market conditions."


The three percentage-point rise in VAT sent German sales down by
4.9 percent to 235,000 vehicles in the period from January to
March.


The strongest increase was seen in central and eastern Europe,
where sales rose by 25.9 percent to 109,000 units.


The most important growth market was China, where unit sales were
up 23 percent at 203,000 vehicles.


"Developments in the South America/South Africa region were
equally positive," with unit sales up 21.5 percent at 188,000
vehicles.


In the US, VW sold 73,000 units, representing slight growth of
0.7 percent compared with the previous year.


Sales of the VW brand alone rose by 6.8 percent to 850,000 units
in the three- month period.

