

World Bank directors were set to meet Thursday to debate the
future of the development lender's embattled president, Paul
Wolfowitz, sources said.


The meeting of the 24 executive directors was previously
scheduled to discuss the bank's planned development projects, but
now will be dominated by a pay and favoritism scandal that has
engulfed Wolfowitz.


Earlier Wednesday, the White House said the former deputy
Pentagon chief should keep his job and denied he had damaged the
World Bank's fight against corruption.


"We'd like to see him remain," presidential spokesman Tony Fratto
told reporters.


"The effort of the World Bank board should be get to the facts,
treat it with fairness, and think of the long-term effectiveness
of the institution," he added.


After last week revealing that Wolfowitz had personally ordered a
hefty pay package and guaranteed promotions for his girlfriend at
the bank, the directors said they would "move expeditiously" to
decide on possible actions to take.


On Sunday, after the annual spring meeting of bank ministerial
policymakers, Wolfowitz said he would stay in the job.


In a statement, the ministers said: "The current situation is of
great concern to all of us.


"We endorsed the board's actions in looking into this matter and
we asked it to continue its work," they said.


While the World Bank's board has the power to fire a president,
in practice the 185-member lender's chief is a US political
appointee and his fate will be decided by governments, not least
in Washington and in Europe.


Battle lines are drawn between European governments, which have
long been suspicious of the former US deputy defense secretary,
and a camp of supporters that includes the United States, Japan
and some African countries.

