

UN chief Ban Ki-moon on Wednesday said he wanted prompt
clarification from Khartoum on reports that Sudan was using
aircraft with UN markings to fly weapons and bomb villages in
strife-torn Darfur.


The New York Times earlier Wednesday cited a confidential UN
report that said Sudan was using the subterfuge to fly weapons
and bomb villages in strife-torn Darfur in violation of UN
Security Council resolutions.


Reacting to the story, UN spokeswoman Michele Montas said Ban,
currently on a visit to Italy, "views with deep concern the
evidence presented to members of the Security Council regarding
the flying of arms and heavy weapons into Darfur in violation" of
a Security Council resolution.


"He is especially troubled by reports that private or national
aircraft have been illegally provided with UN markings for
military pruposes," she said in a statement. "If further
substantiated, such actions would be in clear violation of
international law and in contravention of the UN's international
status."


Montas said Ban would expect "full cooperation from the
government of Sudan, other governments and all other parties to
provide prompt clarification."


The New York Times, which ran the story, published photographs
from the UN report of a Sudanese armed forces plane. UN
investigators said it had been whitewashed and had "UN" stenciled
on its wing and bombs laid out beside it.


It said that this and other planes were being disguised and used
to bomb villages and transport cargo in Darfur, where bloody
civil violence has caused a humanitarian crisis.


More than 200,000 people are estimated to have been killed and at
least two million others displaced in Darfur since 2003. That was
when government forces including its Janjaweed Arab militias
began fighting rebel groups who had taken up arms in protest at
the distribution of resources.

