

WARSAW, April 18, 2007 ( AFP) - The Polish Roman Catholic and
fiercely anti-EU broadcaster Radio Maryja is seeking money from
Brussels to help expand its journalism school, according to a
news report on Wednesday.


The station's founder and boss, Father Tadeusz Rydzyk, has
applied for a 23- million-euro slice of the total 8.3 billion
euros that the European Union has allotted to help boost Polish
businesses and researchers from 2007-2013, the Gazeta Wyborcza
daily reported.


The Radio Maryja media empire has been built up on Catholic
fundamentalist, Polish nationalist, and anti-liberal ideologies
and has sparked controversy for the anti-Semitic content of some
of its broadcasts.


Radio Maryja also campaigned hard against Poland's moves towards
EU membership in 2004, lambasting the bloc as being pro-abortion,
supporting euthanasia and homosexuals.


The radio claims to have three million regular listeners.


Rydzyk's stable also includes the television station Trwam and a
newspaper, Nasz Dziennik.


Two years ago the priest, who has sparred with the Vatican
because of his views, set up his own journalism school to keep
his media staffed.


According to Rydzyk, who openly supports the ruling conservative
Law and Justice (PiS) party, the rest of the Poland's media
serves up a distorted version of the truth.


Radio Maryja reserves particular ire for the left-leaning Gazeta
Wyborzca, one of Poland's top dailies, and also regularly lashes
out at foreign media.


Rydzyk made his funding pitch on the grounds that his school is
an "incubator for modern technology in the service of civil
society," according to Gazeta Wyborcza.


Hanna Jezioranska, a spokeswoman for the European Commission's
Warsaw office, said that "anyone can make requests for support."


"We can't make any official comment, she said, adding: "But one
has to ask how far Father Rydzyk's journalism school contributes
to an innovative economy".

