

A Turkish court on Wednesday acquitted four policemen of the
controversial killing three years ago of a Kurdish boy and his
father in southeastern Turkey, the Anatolia news agency said.


The acquittal came after the prosecution argued that the
defendants acted in self-defence in the November 2004 shooting of
Ahmet Kaymaz and his 12-year-old son, Ugur, outside their house
in Kiziltepe, in Mardin province.


The indictment originally called for up to six years in prison
for the four officers on the grounds that their action went
beyond the limits of self- defence.


Lawyers for the victim's relatives said they would appeal the
sentence.


Police said Kaymaz and his son were gunned down in an operation
against rebels from the outlawed Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK),
but local activists and neighbours said the two were unarmed
civilians.


A parliamentary investigation in 2004 accused police of "heavy
negligence" and concluded that Kaymaz and his son could have been
captured unharmed.


The incident had created a furore in Turkey and the trial was
moved from Mardin to the western city of Eskisehir for security
reasons.


Turkish security forces have faced widespread accusations of
human rights abuses in their fight against the PKK, which took up
arms for self-rule in the southeast in 1984 and is listed as a
terrorist group by Ankara and much of the international
community.


But the authorities have been reluctant to look into such cases
and  convictions of security personnel for torture or other
abuses have been rare.


Cases of rights abuses are seen as a test for Turkey's commitment
to respect democratic norms in its bid to join the European
Union.

