

Czech President Vaclav Klaus has dropped his opposition to
Berlin's timetable for EU reform, Czech media reported Wednesday,
following talks with German Chancellor Angela Merkel near Berlin.


Germany is the current holder of the EU Presidency and has being
trying to find a way forward after the recent 'No' votes to the
EU consitution in France and the Netherlands.


But the Czech president, who met Merkel on Tuesday, remained
cautious: "The timetable is not what counts," he told the CTK
news agency. "We need to have a dialogue, monologues lead to
nowhere."


The eurosceptic Klaus had previously expressed grave reservations
about the German proposals. During the recent 50th anniversary
celebrations of the Treaty of Rome in Berlin, he succesfully
lobbied for the word "Constitution" to be removed from a
declaration of intent, signed by all EU heads of government.


The Czech president claimed at the time that the 2009 deadline
mentioned in that Berlin declaration would not be binding on its
signatories.


In an interview with the French newspaper Le Monde, the Czech
Minister for European Affairs Alexandr Vondra said that his
country was "ready to partipate in the search for a consensus" in
time for the next European elections in 2009.


He admitted that their discussions had focused mainly on the
definition of powers for the European institutions.


Following the example of British conservatives, the Czech
liberals who have been in power since January, argue that the EU
is too bureaucratic and want to limit its powers by introducing
the most minimalist treaty possible.


Germany is set to start negotiations with the Czech Republic on
Monday 27 April on the redrafting of the treaty, according to Jan
Zahradil, the ministerial aide quoted by the CTK agency.


Berlin aims to strike a deal before the next European summit on
21 and 22 June in Brussels.

