

The Colombian government has accepted to implement a temporary
cease-fire with the National Liberation Army (ELN) insurgency,
the South American country's peace commissioner said on
Wednesday.


"We accept the proposal that the cease-fire be experimental and
temporary," Luis Carlos Restrepo said in Havana, where the
Colombian government and the leftist rebels started negotiations
on Tuesday.


"Once the ELN halts its violent actions, halts the kidnappings
and frees the hostages it holds, then the government will
immediately cease all type of military offensive against them,"
Restrepo told journalists.


The ELN announced the proposal on Monday, saying the cease-fire
would be extended if it succeeds in creating "an atmosphere of
peace and of participation."


Restrepo said the government would provide guarantees the rebels
would not be captured when the cease-fire is in effect.


He stressed further measures would be adopted, including a
program to remove landmines and the creation of conditions to
allow the ELN to hold a congress to plan their reinsertion into
civilian life.


Restrepo also said the parties to the talks have yet to determine
how long the cease-fire would last.


The Havana meeting is the sixth round of negotiations since the
government of President Alvaro Uribe and the ELN initiated peace
talks in 2005.


Created in 1964 and strongly influenced by the 1959 Cuban
revolution, the 4,000-strong ELN is the smaller of two leftist
insurgencies in Colombia. The Revolutionary Armed Forces of
Colombia (FARC) has 17,000 rebels in arms.


Both the ELN and the FARC, as well as the ultra right-wing United
Self-Defense Forces of Colombia (AUC), are designated by the US
State Department as terrorist organizations.

