

The United Nations expressed concern Wednesday after Afghan
police raided a private television channel on the orders of the
attorney general and briefly detained three staff members.


About 50 policemen raided the Kabul offices of Tolo TV, the
country's leading channel, and seized three senior staff late
Tuesday, Tolo said in a statement.


Attorney General Abdul Jabar Sabet said he had ordered the raid
and defended his actions on the grounds that the station had
aired false information about him.


UN spokesman Adrian Edwards said the world body's mission in
Afghanistan "is greatly concerned by last night's police actions
against Tolo TV and the accompanying manhandling and detaining of
Tolo TV staff and other reporters covering the events."


Freedom of expression and the press is guaranteed under
Afghanistan's post- conflict constitution and complaints against
the station should not be dealt with by "unlawful physical
intervention," Edwards said in a statement.


The UN "calls upon the government authorities to ensure this
incident is properly investigated and unlawful action against
media outlets is prevented in future".


Tolo aired footage of the raid and said police "violently
attacked staff". It said the three staff members who were
detained were taken to the attorney general's office, where one
was beaten by police.


Sabet told a news conference in Kabul that Tolo had misquoted
him. He said he had stated that the country's justice system was
bad, not the country's political system as broadcast by Tolo.


In February the UN expressed concern about attempts to curb the
media in Afghanistan via a bill introduced on media law.

