

European and US officials hope to soften Russian opposition to a
plan for an independent Kosovo at meetings in Moscow, Friday and
Berlin next Wednesday, according to diplomatic sources in
Brussels.


The contact group meetings -- involving Britain, France, Germany,
Italy,  Russia and the United States, will take place after
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov visits Belgrade on
Thursday. Moscow is Serbia's last hope of prevent its breakaway
republic of Kosovo from gaining the supervised independence
envisaged under UN envoy Martti Ahtisaari's plan.


The "general objective" is to overcome Russian opposition to the
plan, a European diplomatic source said, while adding that there
was still a long way to go.


Serbia embarked on a top-level diplomatic drive Wednesday to
shore up support of countries including Russia and China to
scuttle the plans to grant Kosovo independence.


Serbian leaders are seeking to take advantage of visits by Lavrov
as well as Austrian Foreign Minister Ursula Plassnik and Chinese
Deputy Prime Minister Hui Liangyu.


The three, in Belgrade for regional conferences, were to hold
talks over the next two days with Serbian President Boris Tadic,
Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica and Foreign Minister Vuk
Draskovic.


The diplomatic offensive comes at a crucial time ahead of a UN
Security Council debate on the Ahtisaari plan -- expected next
month.


The European union supports the UN envoy's scheme, under which it
would play a key administrative and security role, despite
misgivings from some member states including Slovakia and Greece.


Kosovo has been run by a UN mission under Resolution 1244, which
was passed by the Council in mid-1999 after NATO bombing helped
to end a bloody Serbian crackdown on Kosovo's majority ethnic
Albanians.


Kosovo Albanians, who comprise around 90 percent of the
province's two million people, have become increasingly impatient
for independence.

