

Saudi authorities are holding eight suspects in the February
murder of four Frenchmen, one of them a teenager, the part Saudi-
owned Al-Arabiya news channel reported Wednesday.


The Dubai-based channel, which cited a Saudi interior ministry
official, gave no details of the dates of the arrests or the
nationalities of the suspects.


The Saudi authorities already announced earlier this month that
police had shot dead one suspect in the February 26 ambush of
three French families returning from an outing to the popular
destination of Madain Saleh in the northwest of the kingdom.


Walid Motlaq al-Raddadi, a 23-year-old Saudi who figured on a
June 2005 list of 36 most-wanted suspected Al-Qaeda militants,
was killed in a gunbattle in the Muslim holy city of Medina in
which a policeman also died.


The Saudi interior ministry said on March 6 that security forces
had arrested a number of suspects in the Frenchmen's killing and
were hunting two more -- other than Raddadi -- linked to the
murders.


The February attack was the first in three months against
Westerners in Saudi Arabia. The oil-rich kingdom was rocked by a
spate of bombings and shootings blamed on suspected Al-Qaeda
militants that started in May 2003, triggering a relentless
security crackdown on Islamist extremists.


The interior ministry has since warned Western governments of the
danger of further attacks on foreigners, and the British and US
embassies joined the French in issuing warnings to their
nationals.

