

The White House said Wednesday that embattled World Bank
president Paul Wolfowitz should keep his job and denied he had
damaged the international organization's fight against
corruption.


"We think the World Bank should continue to be a preeminent,
effective development organization with president Wolfowitz
remaining. We'd like to see him remain," spokesman Tony Fratto
told reporters.


Wolfowitz, a key architect of the war in Iraq, was clinging to
his job after a stormy week of revelations on a pay scandal
involving his girlfriend that is to be examined soon by the
organization's board of directors.


"The effort of the World Bank board should be get to the facts,
treat it with fairness, and think of the long-term effectiveness
of the institution," said Fratto.


The board, set to meet this week to consider the implications of
the hefty pay hikes given to Wolfowitz's partner from World Bank
coffers, is facing increasing pressure on the scandal.


Fratto denied that Wolfowitz had damaged the bank's renewed
emphasis on battling corruption in developing countries by
directing that his Libyan-born partner, Shaha Riza, get a bank
pay deal worth nearly 200,000 dollars.


"I don't think that I would say that, I wouldn't, it's not what
we believe," said the spokesman, who declined to assess the
impact on the bank's overall reputation.


"I'm not sure that I can comment on the reputation of the World
Bank," he said. "The reputation of international financial
institutions ebbs and flows from time to time for different
reasons."

