

Ireland were 49-7 after 20 overs against Sri Lanka in both teams'
final World Cup Super Eights match at the Grenada National
Stadium here Wednesday.


Kevin O'Brien was on two with Kyle McCallan on nought.


Ireland enjoyed a good start reaching 28-0 by the eighth over
before left-arm seamer Farveez Maharoof removed Jeremy Bray for
20 and then Andre Botha (0) and Eoin Morgan (0) in successive
balls with both players falling to catches by Kumar Sangakkara.


Maharoof then picked up his fourth wicket by having opener
William Porterfield caught by Sanath Jayasuriya for 17 with the
total on 46.


Muttiah Muralitharan got rid of Niall O'Brien and Kenny Carroll
in the space of two balls to leave Ireland reeling at 48-6.


That became 49-7 in the 20th over when Maharoof ran out Ireland
skipper Trent Johnston.


Sri Lanka are already through to the semi-finals while Ireland,
seventh in the table, are now unable to get a place in the last
four.


Bowlers Chaminda Vaas and Muralitharan, controversially rested
for Sri Lanka's seven-wicket defeat by world champions Australia
here Monday, returned.


Pace bowler Nuwan Kulasekara retained his place with fellow quick
Dilhara Fernando dropping out. Leg-spinner Malinga Bandara, a
World Cup debutant against Australia, made way for Muralitharan.


Fast bowler Lasith Malinga missed his third straight game after
injuring left ankle ligaments in training.


Ireland, who stunned the cricket world in the first round by
defeating Pakistan, made one change from the side that beat
fellow surprise package Bangladesh by 74 runs in Barbados on
Sunday.


Postman Kenny Carroll, a top order batsman and slow left-arm
bowler, replaced Andrew White.


Victory for Sri Lanka would see them avoid both finishing fourth
and a likely meeting with Australia in the semi-finals.

