

Polish Prime Minister Jaroslaw Kaczynski called Wednesday for the
European Union to review the number of votes that each of the
bloc's 27 member countries get in EU decision making.


"Poland is not satisfied with a voting system which could make us
become the least priviliged country in the EU," he told reporters
during a visit to Brussels.


"We want a solution which would be more effective, where
everybody feels their interests are considered," he said.


Poland wants the number of votes each member state has in EU
decisions requiring a qualified majority to be calculated by
taking the square root of the country's population in millions.


In an interview on March 29, Polish Secretary of State for
European Affairs  Ewa Osniecka-Tamecka said Poland would block
efforts to revive the EU's moribund constitution if member states
reject Poland's voting proposals.


"If other countries don't want to discuss our proposal, we will
be forced to take extreme measures," she told the Gazeta Wyborcza
daily.


Kaczynski did not repeat that threat.


Under the draft constitution, a qualified majority decision is
one carried with 55 percent of the vote and approval from at
least 15 member states representing 65 percent of the population
of the EU.


Poland, which has increasingly asserted its political muscle
since joining the EU in 2004, has also called for that to be
changed to require the backing of 14 countries, representing 62
percent of the population.


The constitution was meant to simplify the way the EU makes its
decisions as it expands, but the treaty has been on ice since it
was rejected by French and Dutch voters in referendums almost two
years ago.

