

The powerful president of the United Auto Workers union vowed
Wednesday to fight the sale of DaimlerChrysler's loss-making US
unit.


"We're going to do our very best to keep Chrysler under
DaimlerChrysler," UAW chief Ron Gettelfinger told reporters.


"I personally think there is a lot of value in keeping it
together right now."


This was the first time Gettelfinger has publicly said he was
prepared to fight the sale first proposed in February when chief
executive officer Dieter Zetsche said "all options are on the
table" when it came to restructuring the Chrysler unit.


Since then, billionaire Kirk Kerkorian, Canadian auto parts
supplier Magna and two investment firms, Cerberus, and Blackstone
and Centerbridge, have expressed interest in buying the Chrysler
group.


Gettelfinger described the equity firms hovering around Chrysler
as "strip and flip artists" and said he had "some concerns about
these equity companies coming into the industry."


Gettelfinger confirmed he has been approached by various
potential buyers but after listening to their proposals he said
he was "focused on the opportunity to get back and talk to the
supervisory board and make the case for keeping Chrysler in the
DaimlerChrysler family."


"There is a lot of support on the supervisory board for keeping
Chrysler," he added.


Despite a series of restructuring plans, Chrysler posted an
operating loss of 1.12 billion euros (1.5 billion dollars) last
year as consumers shied away from the fuel-hungry trucks and
sports utility vehicles that had dominated its offerings.


Gettelfinger said frustrated shareholders ought to remember that
Chrysler is still doing much better than General Motors and Ford
and that Chrysler has made significant contributions to the
broader DaimlerChrysler group.


It would be better to focus on building better cars and trucks
than trying to find a buyer for the loss-making unit, he said,
adding, "We just don't need the aggravation of doing that."

