

Due to the growing role of Asian digital powerhouses in the
global audiovisual entertainment business, one of the world's
leading exhibition organisers Reed MIDEM will launch the first
pan-Asian entertainment content show in Hong Kong in November
2008.


"AMAZIA will combine the best elements" of all of Reed MIDEM's
influential trade shows, covering the audiovisual, music, digital
media and games markets, Reed MIDEM chief Paul Zilk told a press
conference Tuesday.


Zik, speaking on the third day of a five-day trade show,
MIPTV/MILIA, the world's biggest digital audiovisual trade show,
said the event would "boost the entertainment industry across
Asia and help the business evolve even faster".


"Our decision to bring together the most exciting elements of the
entertainment content industry with the different distributors at
a single event, reflects the evolution of the market,
particularly in Asia, where the number of distribution platforms
has dramatically increased," Zilk said.


The revolution sweeping the entertainment businesses in the wake
of the rapid growth of digital technology in watching and sharing
audiovisual content has been the main focus of this week's
MIPTV/MILIA market.


Shows such as AMAZIA that bring all the worlds together under one
roof could be a step towards helping the increasingly fragmented
traditional and new entertainment worlds to move closer together,
industry experts here noted.

