

Half of Kosovo's youths want to leave the impoverished Serbian
province having become disgruntled at the lack of opportunities
for them, according to a poll released on Wednesday.


The UN Development Programme (UNDP) survey of 1,200 young ethnic
Albanians, Serbs and other ethnicities also found that more than
90 percent of them had no desire to participate in politics and
non-governmental organisations.


It blamed the negative attitudes on "economic and social
problems" in the disputed Serbian territory that has been under
UN administration since its 1998-1999 war.


The numbers were a reflection of "young people's distrust in
civil society and political parties' ability or indeed commitment
to improve people's lives," said Frode Mauring, the UNDP's Kosovo
representative.


"This report does not bring the best news one would have wished
about the situation of youth in Kosovo," said Mauring. "We need
to work and provide youth with models, not criticism."


The survey found three out of four Kosovo job-seekers were
younger than 40, and that Kosovars under the age of 25 accounted
for about 57 percent of the population that faces extreme
poverty.


"These (figures) may partially explain the lack of enthusiasm for
participation among the young," said Mauring.


The UNDP official said the plight of Kosovo's youth should be a
priority for the province's government, donors and development
agencies.


The UN Security Council is currently considered the future status
of the province and whether it should be granted independence
under international supervision as proposed by UN envoy, Martti
Ahtisaari.

