

Wall Street shares retreated Wednesday as disappointing earnings
from the technology sector prompted profit-taking a day after
blue-chips flirted with record highs.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 19.02 points (0.15 percent)
to 12,754.02 at 1400 GMT after the blue-chip index ended just shy
of its all-time record closing high on Tuesday.


The tech-heavy Nasdaq composite dropped 10.53 points (0.42
percent) to 2,506.42 and the broad-market Standard and Poor's
declined 2.46 points (0.17) percent to 1,469.02.


The declines came amid a lukewarm response to earnings reports
from the tech sector, especially Yahoo, which said profits sagged
11 percent under the weight of operating expenses despite the
promising launch of its overhauled Panama advertising platform.


Meanwhile earnings from Intel and IBM were "uninspiring,"
according to Dick Green at Briefing.com, prompting some selling.


"The technology sector is forecast to supply a good portion of
the earnings growth for the S and P this year, but these
companies are off to a decidedly mixed start," Green said.


Fred Dickson at DA Davidson said that in addition to lackluster
earnings, the comments and guidance from the tech firms suggest
some caution.


"IBM's comments about slowing technology spending in the US may
put some pressure on technology stocks in today's session on Wall
Street," he said.


"These results and comments, combined with this morning's
earnings releases should set the tone that earnings season isn't
the disaster that some investors feared," he added.


"While stock prices have advanced sharply from early March, we
continue to believe that further gains can be achieved if and
when investors believe the fundamental revenue and earnings
outlook for corporate America is beginning to improve.


"We do suspect that the market will struggle to move much above
current levels until more companies report earnings and recent
fears begin to subside."    bur- rl/jit

