

Horse exports from South Africa have been frozen pending the
results of tests for African Horse Sickness (AHS), feared to have
killed 13 animals in the past month, authy is awaiting the
results with bated breath, as horse racing in the Cape Town area
was put on hold.


The movement of horses in the Western Cape province has also been
severely restricted.


"We are awaiting the test results from the Onderstepoort
Veterinary Institute (in Pretoria)," said Ali van Jaarsveld, a
spokesman for the province's agriculture department.


South Africa resumed exports of racing and dressage horses in
October last year after a ban of more than two years following an
outbreak of the sickness in February 2004.


The country exports about 150 horses a year, out of a total
population of 250,000 -- some 20,000 of them thoroughbreds. About
750 horses are believed to have been exported since 1997.


The horse-killing disease, carried by midges, is endemic to the
continent, and can kill up to 75 percent of unvaccinated horse
populations.


Van Jaarsveld said exports were halted immediately after an
initial screening test showed that a horse that died on March 16
may have been carrying the disease.


The horse died near Stellenbosch, about 150 kilometres (93 miles)
north of the AHS-free zone in the Cape peninsula where quarantine
stations are based for all export horses.


African Horse Sickness is a controlled disease in South Africa,
but compulsory annual vaccinations are not always observed, said
Peter Gibson, chief executive of Racing South Africa, which
represents racehorse breeders, operators and owners.


He said tests on four of the 13 dead horses had not found traces
of AHS, but of equine encephalosis which has similar symptoms but
is less deadly and has no effect on the export protocols South
Africa has with the European Union and other trading partners.


The EU, Gibson added, agreed about a week ago to retain South
Africa's export status pending the final test results.

