

Romania's parliament will decide Thursday whether to impeach
President Traian Basescu, who has threatened to resign if the
vote goes against him.


Opposition members say Basescu violated the constitution by
acting in a partisan way and violating his role as mediator.


They have accused him of "controlling through those close to him
all state institutions, of interfering in the law and protecting
the interests of the mafia in the Romanian economy."


They also blame him for the country's political crisis, notably
his criticisms of Prime Minister Calin Tariceanu and his threats
to call legislative elections.


If parliament members vote to impeach, a referendum will be held
on the issue within 30 days.


The country's Constitutional Court cleared Basescu earlier this
month, ruling that the accusations against him did not amount to
"serious violations of the constitution." An opposition member on
Wednesday accused Basescu of blackmailing court judges to obtain
a favourable ruling.


Basescu has also been in a long-running feud with the prime
minister, who sacked ministers from Basescu's Democrat party in a
government reshuffle several weeks ago.


The president remains popular among voters. He has promised to
resign if parliament impeaches him and run in a new election.


It remained unclear how Thursday's secret ballot would play out.
Fifty percent plus one of all deputies and senators must approve
the measure for it to pass.


Three opposition parties have vowed to vote for impeachment,
representing 228 votes, but 235 votes are needed.


Tariceanu said members of his National Liberal Party could vote
as they chose.


Some political analysts have said parliament members may not vote
strictly along party lines because they fear they may not have a
candidate to beat Basescu in a new election.

