

One man was killed and 20 more were wounded as police and
military troops clashed with protesters who seized a natural gas
pumping facility in southern Bolivia, the South American
country's defense minister announced on Wednesday.


The protester apparently died when a soldier shot him in the leg
after about 1,000 local residents seized control of the
installations of the Shell subsidiary Transredes in Yacuiba, near
the border with Paraguay.


The violent protest was one of several staged amid rival claims
by the neighboring Gran Chaco and O'Connor provinces for a larger
share of royalties from the Margarita natural gas field, believed
to contain 20 percent of Bolivia's proven and probable natural
gas reserves, which authorities say total 1.55 trillion cubic
meters.


Defense Minister Walker San Miguel said one soldier was
apparently held hostage by the protesters and another could not
be accounted for following Tuesday's clash.


Protesters remained in the compound of the Shell subsidiary
Transredes on Wednesday, but the facility continued pumping
natural gas to Argentina and Brazil, San Miguel said.


He expressed fear the protesters may seek to damage the
installations, which are surrounded by 400 soldiers and 37 police
officers.


Protesters have also cut off roads linking southern Bolivia with
Paraguay and Argentina, paralyzing cross-border traffic.


Authorities on Monday put natural gas fields and pipelines in the
region under military control.


In the capital La Paz, President Evo Morales called an urgent
cabinet meeting to discuss measures to ensure there is no
interruption of gas exports.

