

Democrats on Wednesday softened their position on the withdrawal
of US troops from Iraq ahead of talks with US President George W.
Bush on funding for the four-year-old war.


Leaders of the new Democratic majority said before a scheduled
meeting with Bush they hoped to negotiate an exit strategy with a
White House that is fiercely opposed to a specific withdrawal
timetable.


Nancy Pelosi, speaker of the House of Representatives, said the
Democrats were determined to reach out and say, "Mr. President,
we must work together. We must negotiate an approach that will
wind down this war."


Pelosi and Senate Majority leader Harry Reid conspicuously
avoided a demand for the pullout of US troops starting next year
that was contained in a funding bill Bush has sworn to veto.


"It's not a question of 'back down,'" Pelosi told reporters.
"It's a question of negotiate a winding down of this war.


"It's necessary that we do that because the course of action we
are in is a war without end."


There are currently 145,000 US troops in Iraq, and the number
should rise to 160,000 by June under a "surge" ordered by Bush to
try to restore order in Baghdad.


Locked in a weeks-long standoff over a 120-billion-dollar
emergency funding package for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan,
Bush and the Democratic leaders were to meet behind closed doors
at the White House.


Bush has stood firm against what he called this week the
Democrats' "unreasonable demands for a precipitous withdrawal"
that would have serious consequences for the United States and
the Middle East.


White House spokeswoman Dana Perino said what Bush was looking
forward to "hearing is how the Democrats have decided to
compromise amongst themselves, first, so that he knows what their
position is."

