

A major Swedish scientific breakthrough in plant physiology that
was published in the journal Science in 2005 was based on false
data, the research group at Umeaa University said Wednesday.


"A guest researcher from China who had been invited to join our
team manipulated the data to get false results," professor Ove
Nilsson from the Faculty of Science and Agriculture at Umeaa
University told AFP.


The research studied one of the most important questions in plant
physiology: How do plants know when to bloom?


The Chinese researcher, Tao Huang, claimed to have proven that
the florigen molecule that controls plant blooming plays the role
of messenger in the process.


Science Magazine named the study the third most important
scientific breakthrough of 2005.


The fraud was unveiled in September 2006 when the research group
unsuccessfully attempted to repeat the experiments conducted by
Tao.


The study was published in Science in September 2005, but the
group behind the research asked the US weekly to retract the
article once they became aware of the tampering.


According to Swedish daily Dagens Nyheter, the group informed the
scientific community of the mistake and offered their apologies.


"This incident was extremely embarrassing for our university.
These were the worst moments of my career as a researcher,"
Nilsson said.


Nilsson added that the Chinese researcher, who has now left the
Swedish university, has refused to admit to the cheating and has
maintained that the results were correct.


"Chinese researchers are under a lot of pressure from their
country and are expected to produce a maximum amount of results
in order to get a job," he emphasised.


In 2005 another Asian researcher, South Korean Hwang Woo-suk,
made the headlines after he was found to have faked his research
on human stemcell cloning.


His results were also published in Science, which later published
a retraction.

