

China, Russia and South Africa on Wednesday poured cold water on
US and British plans to push for UN sanctions against Sudan at a
time when Khartoum is cooperating with the United Nations on
Darfur.


In Washington, US President George W. Bush bluntly warned that
Sudanese President Omar al-Beshir had one "last chance" to help
end violence in Darfur or face tougher US sanctions and other
punishments.


Britain and the United States said they would begin talks in the
Security Council Thursday on a new Sudan sanctions draft.


But Russia and China, two veto-wielding council members, along
with South Africa made it clear that they oppose such a draft at
this time.


"We don't think it's the right time. It would be very strange,"
Russia's UN Ambassador Vitaly Churkin said.


"Why do we have to be so negative?" he said "After a long while,
we have this kind of positive development in the dialogue between
the UN and Khartoum and all of a sudden to come back with some
sanctions would not be good."


China's deputy UN Ambassador Liu Zhenmin concurred.


"It is better not to move in that direction (sanctions) ... Many
parties are engaging the Sudanese government. Agreement has been
reached for the heavy package support (deployment of UN 3,000
peacekeepers)," he said.


On Monday Sudan agreed following months of delays to let 3,000 UN
personnel plus helicopters into Darfur to support under-equipped
African Union forces trying to stabilize the region.


The UN peacekeepers are to provide logistical, communications,
intelligence and air support to 7,000 under-equipped AU troops
that have failed to stem four years of bloody ethnic strife in
the western Sudanese region.


State Department spokesman Sean McCormack noted Wednesday that
Khartoum "does have some time" before facing sanctions.


"He (Sudanese President Omar al-Beshir) has weeks in order to
fully meet the commitments that he signed on to," he said,
referring to a deal signed by Sudan last year to allow a robust,
joint UN-African Union peacekeeping force into Darfur.


"It is very surprising that they would be bringing up sanctions
when Sudan   has just made great improvements on the request of
the UN for the heavy package (the deployment of 3,000 UN
peacekeepers), has accepted (UN chief) Ban Ki-moon's offer to
assist," South Africa's UN envoy Dumisani Kumalo told reporters.


At the request of Ban, Britain and the United States had held off
on introducing a sanctions draft as the United States, China,
Saudi Arabia and South Africa pressed coordinated diplomatic
efforts to persuade Khartoum to allow joint AU-UN peacekeeping in
Darfur.


Sanctions under consideration include expanding a list of
Sudanese officials found responsible for atrocities in Darfur
that would be subjected to an assets freeze and a travel ban,
extending the existing UN arms embargo in Darfur to the whole of
Sudan or imposing a no-fly zone over Darfur.


In 2005, the Security Council approved a resolution that allowed
for the seizure of assets and a travel ban against individuals
who commit atrocities, impede the peace process in Darfur or
"constitute a threat to stability" in the region.


It also extended an existing arms embargo against non-state
parties in Darfur to the Sudanese government and specifically
prohibited Khartoum from offensive military flights into the
region, where an estimated 200,000 people have been killed and at
least two million more displaced since 2003.


Meanwhile, The New York Times Wednesday cited a confidential UN
report that said Sudan put UN markings on airplanes to fly
weapons and bomb villages in strife- torn Darfur in violation of
UN Security Council resolutions.


The UN report said Darfur rebels were also guilty of violating UN
resolutions and humanitarian standards.


Reacting to the story, UN spokeswoman Michele Montas said Ban
"views with deep concern the evidence presented to members of the
Security Council regarding the flying of arms and heavy weapons
into Darfur in violation" of a Security Council resolution.


But Sudan's UN envoy Abdelmahmoud Abdelhaleem dismissed the UN
report's "allegations" as "fabrications" and said Khartoum wanted
an urgent investigation.

