

Controversy sparked by an 8.5-million-euro severance payment for
a former chief executive of aerospace giant EADS deepened
Wednesday, with French Finance Minister Thierry Breton alleged to
have intervened to arrange the payment.


The finance ministry vigorously denied a report of Breton's
involvement, which is to appear in the Thursday edition of the
weekly magazine Challenges.


Challenges said Breton, against the wishes of members of the EADS
executive board, helped ensure that former EADS co-chief
executive Noel Forgeard leave the company with the compensation
called for in his contract.


Forgeard stood down last July following revelations of serious
and financially damaging production delays to the A380 superjumbo
program at EADS aircraft manufacturing unit Airbus.


According to Challenges, EADS shareholders initially wanted
Forgeard to leave without a golden parachute. But such a move,
which would have required dismissal for a professional failing,
could have prompted a lawsuit by Forgeard, the report said.


Citing a source close to the affair, Challenges alleged that
Breton then stepped in, calling on a mediator whose job it was to
convince Forgeard to go and the shareholders to accept the
settlement stipulated by the contract.


The finance ministry later described the allegations as "totally
unfounded and grossly false."


"The conditions for Mr. Forgeard's departure ... were drawn up by
EADS alone with the state not having been associated in any way,"
the ministry said in a statement, adding that the government does
not have a representative on the EADS board.


News of the payment to Forgeard caused widespread comment and
indignation last week, with Socialist presidential candidate
Segolene Royal calling it a "scandal" and a "provocation."

