

Charges will be pressed against eight former high-ranking Czech
army officers suspected of rigging public contracts, Czech media
reported on Wednesday citing a broadcast by TV Nova.


"After studying the dossier I have decided to press charges,"
Prague state prosecutor Martin Omelka told the broadcaster.


Last month Czech police announced that eight officers, most of
them holding the rank of colonel or lieutenant-colonel, were
suspected of fixing contracts worth 482 million koruna (17.1
million euros, 22.6 million dollars).


The contracts were for repairs to runways as well as for
technical and air safety equipment.


Those found guilty of abusing commercial information and trust
can be jailed for two years. The penalty for bribery can be up to
five years.


On Tuesday the Czech defence ministry announced moves to crack
down on corruption. The ministry is already under the spotlight
as a result of an international corruption investigation centred
on alleged bribery payments by British defence manufacturer BAE
Systems and Sweden's Saab.


"According to new measures taking effect, top staff are unable to
sign almost anything with regard to public tenders without the
knowledge of their superiors," the ministry said in a news
release.


The number of regional offices dealing with army accommodation
and construction contracts, subject to a police corruption
investigation launched in March, will be cut from five to three,
it added.


Further moves to centralise and simplify army purchases of goods
and equipment are being studied, ministry spokesman, Andrej
Cirtek, told AFP.


Prague signed a  2.13 billion euros (2.8 billion dollars) deal in
2001 to buy 24 Gripen combat aircraft from a BAE and Saab joint
venture, which was later transformed into a leasing contract.


Britain's Serious Fraud Office as well as Swedish and Czech
police are probing the fighter aircraft deals.

