

Polish Prime Minister Jaroslaw Kaczynski dismissed claims
Wednesday that his government's crackdown on former communists,
including ex-president General Wojciech Jaruzelski, amounts to an
an inquisition.


Jaruzelski was formally charged Tuesday with the "communist
crime" of declaring martial law in 1981. He faces up to 10 years
in jail if he is found guilty of "having led an armed
organisation of a criminal character".


"How can you associate an inquisition with somebody who has
committed crimes against his own country?" Kaczynski said in
response to a reporter's question during a visit to Brussels.
"Shouldn't he be tried?"


"This gentleman, who is 84 years old, has got a wonderful private
house. He's got officials from the government's protection bureau
guarding him every day. He's got a pension at the level of a
former president," he said.


"Everybody should be tried and held responsible for the crimes
that they committed."


Jaruzelski was head of the Polish government, and communist
party, between 1981 and 1989 which declared martial law in a bid
to stamp out a challenge to the communist regime from the
Solidarity trade union, led by Lech Walesa.


Thousands of arrests followed and dozens of people were killed in
clashes.


Jaruzelski is the latest target in the clampdown by the
conservative Law and Justice (PiS) Party, which came to power in
late 2005 and is led Kaczynski and his identical twin, President
Lech Kaczynski -- both of whom were Solidarity activists.

