

A grenade attack damaged the offices of Cambio de Sonora
newspaper but left no casualties, the northwestern Mexico daily
reported on Wednesday.


The cause of the attack was not immediately known, but
journalists and newspapers who report on drug trafficking are
regularly targeted by increasingly violent criminal gangs.


Organization Editorial Mexicana (OEM), which owns the daily, said
unknown attackers on Tuesday night hurled a grenade from a car
into the newspaper's offices in Hermosillo, the capital of the
Sonora state.


Cambio de Sonora said the grenade caused structural damage but
left no casualties.


It said preliminary investigations showed the grenade was of the
same type as the two that were hurled at state police
headquarters on Sunday.


The attack came just one day after a journalist with another
Sonora newspaper, the Diario de Agua Prieta, was kidnapped by
armed men near the US border.


Earlier this month, a journalist with the Televisa TV network was
killed by gunmen in the Pacific coast resort of Acapulco.


The attacks coincided with a surge of violence between rival drug
cartels that have left hundreds of people dead.


Experts say President Felipe Calderon's attempts to crackdown on
drug-related violence are further complicated by rampant
corruption among security forces.


On Monday, Mexico's army detained more than a hundred police for
alleged ties to drug traffickers in the northern state of Nuevo
Leon. Authorities said the officers will be investigated to
determine whether they were involved in some of the 50 execution-
style killings reported in the state so far this year.

