

European stock exchanges retreated Wednesday in the face of
profit-taking following strong gains earlier in the week and on
concern over the potential harm to eurozone exports from a
weakening dollar.


The single European currency surged past the 1.36-dollar-mark for
the first time since December 2004 while the pound sterling
jumped to a near-26-year high against the dollar.


Analysts said the currency movements reflected fears for the
health of the US economy, with downturns in manufacturing and
housing acting as a drag on growth.


The London FTSE 100 index shed 0.74 percent to close at 6,449.40
while in Paris the CAC 40 fell 0.38 percent to reach 5,835.95. In
Frankfurt the Dax gave up 0.90 percent to finish at 7,282.34
points.


The Euro Stoxx 50 index of leading eurozone shares fell 0.58
percent to end the session at 4358.95.


On the currency market the euro reached as high as 1.3616 dollars
in early European trading before falling back to 1.3576 against
1.3564 late Tuesday in New York.


The pound sterling struck 2.0133 dollars to reach its highest
reading since June 1981. It later traded at 2.0040 against 2.0063
on Tuesday.


Wall Street shares weakened as disappointing earnings from the
technology sector prompted profit-taking a day after blue-chips
flirted with record highs.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 0.15 percent to 12,754.02
at 1400 GMT after the blue-chip index ended just shy of its all-
time record closing high on Tuesday.


The tech-heavy Nasdaq composite dropped 0.42 percent to 2,506.42.


The declines came amid a lukewarm response to earnings reports
from the tech sector, especially Yahoo, which said profits sagged
11 percent under the weight of operating expenses despite the
promising launch of its overhauled Panama advertising platform.


Meanwhile earnings from Intel and IBM were "uninspiring,"
according to Dick Green at Briefing.com, prompting some selling.


Fred Dickson at DA Davidson said that in addition to lacklustre
earnings, the comments and guidance from the tech firms suggest
some caution.


"IBM's comments about slowing technology spending in the US may
put some pressure on technology stocks in today's session on Wall
Street," he said.


In London mining issues were hit with a bout of profit-taking
following recent strong runs. BHP Billiton fell 2.63 percent to
close at 1,147 pence while Anglo American gave up 2.06 percent to
reach 2,705 pence.


Fears that British interest rates could rise to 5.5 percent next
month weighed on banks specialising in mortgage lending. Alliance
and Leicester shed 1.04 percent to end the day at 1,139 pence
while Northern Rock gave up 1.50 percent to close at 1,117 pence.


In Paris sentiment was dented by concern over the rising euro,
which is seen as penalizing eurozone companies by dampening their
export earnings and reducing the value of their profits earned in
dollars.


Oil giant Total gave up 0.85 percent to finish at 53.84 euros
while Vallourec fell 2.13 percent to 189.94.


The day's big winner was the Societe Generale bank, which surged
3.04 percent to 143.50 euros on speculation it could be a
takeover target of Italian rival Unicredito.


In Frankfurt sportwear company Adidas gave up 1.33 percent to end
the session at 44.50 euros after reports that British investment
fund Apax might be interested in bidding for the German group
were dashed.


Automaker Volkswagen by contrast gained 0.58 percent to close at
115.22 euros after announcing a sharp hike in first quarter
earnings.


Elsewhere there were declines of 0.64 percent in Madrid, 0.27
percent to 531.24 in Amsterdam, 0.56 percent to 4,576.41 in
Brussels and 0.44 percent to 43,286 in Milan.


The Swiss Market Index gained 0.55 percent to 9,228.


In Asian trading on Wednesday, the Tokyo Stock Exchange's
Nikkei-225 index of leading shares advanced 0.80 percent to close
at 17,667.33 points.


The Tokyo gains came despite a slightly stronger yen against the
dollar as well as nervousness ahead of the domestic earnings
results season which gets into full swing next week.


Hong Kong's key Hang Seng Index closed flat at 20,777.09 points
on profit- taking, as the market went into consolidation mode
after gaining nearly 450 points in the last two sessions.

