

Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo extended Wednesday till May
29 the six- month state of emergency his government had imposed
in the southwestern state of Ekiti.


The situation in Ekiti "could snowball into a complete state of
anarchy and lawlessness that could spread to neighbouring
states," he said in a nationwide television broadcast.


His decision follows widespread violence in Ekiti and across
Nigeria following last weekend's local elections and ahead of
Saturday's presidential polls.


He also renewed the mandate of the administrator of Ekiti during
the emergency rule, Adetunji Olurin, a retired general, till May
29, when a new elected civilian government will come into office.


Police said that at least 20 people were killed in several states
of Nigeria, including Ekiti, after the nation's electoral agency
INEC announced the results of Saturday's state governorship and
parliamentary polls.


Officials and media also reported that dozens of houses and
vehicles were destroyed in Ekiti and these others states after
the results of the polls were announced.


Obasanjo on October 18 imposed a six-month state of emergency on
Ekiti following the bloody political unrest which culminated in
the impeachment of its governor, Ayo Fayose, by the state local
parliament. He then appointed Olurin as administrator for six
months.


"The time to save Ekiti State and, indeed, our nation is now,"
Obasanjo said.


Authorities have imposed a dusk-to-dawn curfew in at least six
states after Saturday's poll sparked violence that left at least
21 dead.


The successful outcome of Saturday presidential poll will mark
the fist civilian-to-civilian transition since Nigeria gained
independence from Britain in 1960.

