

Anti-riot police intervened on Wednesday to prevent hundreds of
supporters of Montenegro's unofficial Orthodox church from
holding a service in a Serbian Orthodox church.


Scuffles began when police blocked the path of the church
activists who wanted to enter the Cetinjski Manastir church in
Cetinje, Montenegro's official capital.


Chanting "This is not Serbia" and "Whose police are you?," the
crowd eventually withdrew and held a service in front of another
Serbian Orthodox church nearby.


The incident represents the latest escalation in tensions between
the two orthodox churches in Montenegro since the tiny Balkan
state's separation from a union with Serbia in June last year.


Most Orthodox churches do not recognise the Montenegrin Orthodox
Church, which proclaimed itself into existence after separating
from the Serbian Orthodox Church in the mid-1990s.


Up until the creation of the breakaway church Montenegro's
official church was the Serbian Orthodox Church.


The issue has become a serious obstacle to the creation of a new
Montenegro constitution, its first since the former Yugoslav
republic proclaimed independence.


Montenegro's lawmakers cannot agree on what the country's
official church should be reflecting differences between those
that want to retain the Serb Orthodox link and those that do not.


It has also flared into a political dispute, after the breakaway
church said they would take over churches and monasteries owned
by the Serbian church.


Following the church's threat earlier this month, President Filip
Vujanovic was forced to promise his Serbian counterpart Boris
Tadic that Montenegrin authorities would preserve the property of
the Serbian Orthodox Church.

