

Hundreds of Danish cafe and restaurant owners and their customers
protested on Wednesday outside parliament against a ban on
smoking in public places due to be introduced on August 15.


Carrying banners reading "Yes to the Right to Smoke" and
"Preserve Denmark's Cafe Culture", the 400 protestors
demonstrated calmly and urged MPs to review the planned ban, many
carrying a bottle of beer in one hand and a cigarette in the
other.


A group of demonstrators submitted a petition to the parliament's
committee on health affairs signed by almost 60,000 people
opposed to the ban.


"A gulp of beer and a cigarette go together. It's a must. And
customers, even non-smokers, like this smoky ambiance in pubs
that would disappear with the ban," Jan, the manager of Bodega, a
traditional bistro in the Copenhagen neighbourhood of Noerrebro,
told AFP.


Under the new law, smoking will be banned in bars, cafes and
restaurants bigger than 100 square metres (1,070 square feet),
although separate smoking areas will be allowed. For smaller
venues, it will be up to the owner to decide.


It will also be illegal to smoke in public buildings, shopping
centres, sports halls, cultural centres and other public spaces.


In Denmark, 25.6 percent of inhabitants over the age of 13 smoke
daily, according to a study conducted in December 2005 for public
health institutions and cancer and cardiovascular health
organisations.


In 2005, 28 percent of the Danish population smoked, or 31
percent of men and 25 percent of women, compared to 41 and 37
percent respectively in 1995, according to statistics.


Smoking bans have already been introduced across Europe, in
Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, Norway, Scotland,
Sweden, Wales. England is set to follow in July.

