

Morocco is facing an "extreme" threat of more terror attacks in
Casablanca and other cities following a spate of suicide bombings
and is on high alert, a government spokesman said Wednesday.


"Morocco is in a state of extreme alert and this situation
prevails as much in Casablanca as in other cities and sensitive
zones in the country," said spokesman and Communications Minister
Nabil Benabdellah.


"Terrorism can strike any time," he said. "Moroccan authorities
have beefed up security at consulates, hotels frequented by
foreigners and religious places."


Some 20 people have been arrested in relation to last week's
suicide bombings in the port city.


Six militants died there last week as police investigated a March
11 explosion in a Internet cafe.


Three men blew themselves up as they were pursued by police last
Tuesday and a fourth would-be bomber was shot dead by police.


On Saturday two brothers blew themselves up near the US consulate
and near an American language school in Casablanca.


Benabdellah underlined that Moroccan authorities had displayed
great expertise and efficiency in the wake of the bombings.


"We hope to definitely defeat this gang which staged the March 11
attacks and those of last week."


The attacks last week in Morocco and in neighbouring Algeria,
where 30 people died in three suicide bombings, have sparked
fears that the recent violence presages an upsurge in Islamist
violence in the region.


He denied that terrorism was linked to poverty, arguing: "How
does one explain the 2004 Mardid bombings?"


"The fight for us is on two fronts: to protect citizens and
ensure the stability of the country and to continue building a
strong democracy which is being targetted by terrorists and to
strengthen social and democratic development."

