

The surge in US forces in Iraq is likely the last chance for
Iraqi leaders to establish a functioning state, a top US
commander said Wednesday, warning they needed to take faster
action on key political decisions.


"Time is short and we have tried to give them space to make these
decisions," Admiral William Fallon, the commander of US forces in
the Middle East, told US lawmakers here.


"But at every opportunity I carry the same message: you have got
to start taking these tough decisions faster if we're going to be
successful, and if you're going to be successful," he said.


Fallon cited action on constitutional reform, an oil distribution
law and de- Baathification measures as essentials if Iraq is to
be stabilized, regardless of the buildup in US forces.


He said there has been no consistent progress toward establishing
a functioning representative government in the four years since
the US invasion of Iraq.


"It is very clear to me we have in play right now a significantly
different approach to this," he said, referring to the surge in
US forces.


"But ... given the many factors that are in play ... this is
really the Iraqi leadership's major and potential last
opportunity to really take this ball forward," he said.


"I can't imagine them being given another opportunity of the
degree and magnitude that they have been given now. It's
imperative from my view that they act on it," he said.


Currently, there are about 142,000 US troops in Iraq, a figure
that is supposed to swell with the arrival of three more US
combat brigades over the next three months.


The surge has encountered stiff opposition in the Democratic-
controlled Congress, which has attached text to military funding
bills setting deadlines for the withdrawal of US forces.


Fallon, a former Pacific commander who replaced General John
Abizaid about a month ago, has been conducting an intensive
review of conditions in his area of responsibility, which extends
from Egypt to Afghanistan.

