

Senior members of Northern Ireland's largest Protestant party
held a crunch meeting Saturday to decide whether to enter into a
power-sharing government with their long-standing Catholic
rivals.


The 120-member executive of the Democratic Unionist Party (DUP)
have until 0000 GMT Sunday to confirm their ministerial
nominations to the devolved Northern Ireland Assembly, including
leader Ian Paisley as first minister.


Britain and Ireland have set a midnight Tuesday (2300 GMT
Tuesday) deadline for a power-sharing executive to be formed. If
it is not, the assembly will be dissolved indefinitely and the
province run from London with input from Dublin.


Leading DUP officials said little as they arrived at the Belfast
talks Saturday morning, in what was being seen by observers as
the party's most important meeting in its history.


The meeting broke up at about 1440 GMT, a DUP spokesman told AFP,
but there was no immediate indication of an agreement.


"It was a good meeting and details of a resolution passed at the
meeting will emerge later today," he said. "Negotiations are
continuing and will continue throughout the day."


Some of Northern Ireland's political leaders have been invited to
meet Britain's Northern Ireland Secretary Peter Hain on an
individual basis, but the DUP spokesman said Paisley had "no
plans" to do so.


Earlier Saturday, an unnamed DUP source quoted by Britain's
domestic Press Association news agency said there were doubts
about whether they could put forward nominiations by the
deadline.


"There are still intense negotiations taking place with the
British government and at this stage it is looking unlikely that
we will be able to run d'Hondt (the system nominating devolved
ministers) in the assembly on Monday.


"There is a lot of hard talking but the question is whether
people in government really want to throw the baby out with the
bath water on Monday."


The national executive of Sinn Fein, Northern Ireland's main
Catholic party and the former political wing of the Irish
Republican Army (IRA), was also meeting in Dublin.


Sinn Fein's chief negotiator, Martin McGuinness, is expected to
be Paisley's number two in the assembly, if the DUP confirms its
candidates.


The Guardian newspaper said the British government believes
Paisley would like to form an executive, sensing most Protestants
back the idea.


But the veteran hardliner is seeking further financial help for
Northern Ireland from the London government and greater
assurances from Sinn Fein over its pledge to back the rule of
British law and police in the province.


He was also as bullish as ever in an interview published in The
Times Saturday, saying: "I believe that Sinn Fein/IRA are as
unsuitable for government today as they ever were.


"We are about to see nothing other than gangsters and Mafia-like
figures being elevated to government, men whose hands are stained
with the blood of victims of terrorism. No amount of oaths of
office can wash away that blood."

