

A penalty goal three minutes from full-time by fly-half Stephen
Donald gave Waikato Chiefs a 21-19 victory over Queensland Reds
in a fluctuating Super 14 rugby match at Lang Park here Saturday.


The lead changed hands three times in the second half as the New
Zealanders fought back from 16-10 down to claim their second
successive victory to move away from the lower reaches of the
provincial tournament.


The heartbreaking defeat was the Reds' seventh of the campaign
and they remain anchored at the bottom of the standings after
eight rounds.


The Reds looked to have shaken off the Chiefs when fullback and
former Wallaby Andrew Walker landed a 40-metre penalty goal for a
19-18 advantage five minutes from time.


But the lead was relinquished two minutes later when the Reds
conceded a ruck penalty, giving Donald the opportunity to kick
the Chiefs to victory.


The Chiefs scored two tries to one, with both their tries coming
from lock Kristian Ormsby.


Ormsby scored off a lineout win early in the first half and
ploughed over carrying two tacklers for his second try in the
43rd minute, awarded after adjudication from the video referee.


The injury-depleted Reds had the better of the opening half, with
exciting young fly-half Quade Cooper cleverly putting flanker
David Croft into a gap with an inside pass, who scored his team's
only try in the 31st minute.


The try came directly from a penalty and the yellow-carding of
flanker Liam Messam for a high tackle on winger Peter Hynes.


Queensland will receive a welcome bye next weekend to help
recover from a demanding opening eight weeks, while the Chiefs
have a home game against the table-topping Auckland Blues next
Saturday.

