

Kenya captain Steve Tikolo won the toss and elected to bat
against England in the key World Cup Group C match at the
Beausejour Cricket Ground here Saturday.


England recalled star all-rounder Andrew Flintoff for a game
where the winners were guaranteed to qualify for the second
phase, Super Eight stage alongside group table-toppers New
Zealand.


Flintoff had been stripped of the vice-captaincy and dropped from
the side's 51-run victory against Canada on Sunday as a
disciplinary measure after being one of six players fined for
late night driking following the six-wicket defeat against New
Zealand.


Flintoff effectively took the place of dropped off-spinner Jamie
Dalrymple.


In another change, which an England spokesman said was purely a
matter of selection, fast bowler Sajid Mahmood came in for his
World Cup debut in place of fellow quick Liam Plunkett.


England retained medium-pace bowling all-rounder Ravi Bopara who
made his World Cup debut as Flintoff's replacement against
Canada.


Kenya made one change from the side that lost by 148 runs to New
Zealand on Tuesday with Tony Suji in for opener David Obuya.


Early morning rain delayed the scheduled 0930am local time
(1330GMT) with the game - now reduced to 43 overs per side - set
to begin at 1130am local time (1530GMT)


If 20 overs per side can be completed Saturday there will be a
result without having to use Sunday's reserve day.


Teams


England: Ed Joyce, Michael Vaughan (capt), Ian Bell, Kevin
Pietersen, Paul Collingwood, Andrew Flintoff, Ravi Bopara, Paul
Nixon (wk), Sajid Mahmood, James Anderson, Monty Panesar


Kenya: Maurice Ouma (wk), Ravindu Shah, Tony Suji, Steve Tikolo
(capt), Tanmay Mishra, Collins Obuya, Thomas Odoyo, Jimmy
Kamande, Lameck Onyango, Peter Ongondo, Hiren Varaiya


Umpires: Rudi Koertzen (RSA), Peter Parker (AUS)


TV umpire: Billy Doctrove (WIS)


Match referee: Mike Procter (RSA)


Reserve umpire: Asad Rauf (PAK)

