

More than 800 people have died from a meningitis epidemic in
Burkina Faso, state television Saturday quoted Health Minister
Alain Yoda as saying.


Yoda told parliament Friday that out of 10,796 cases of the
disease recorded on March 18, 801 had died.


He added that 26 of the country's 55 health districts had
declared an epidemic and 11 were on a state of alert.


The United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian
Affairs (OCHA) called for urgent help to contain the epidemic on
Friday, saying that it had spread from Burkina Faso to eight
other western African countries since the start of the year.


The head of OCHA in West Africa, Herve Ludovic de Lys, warned it
could spread further in coming months.


Although Burkina Faso has by far the largest number of cases,
Benin, Chad, Ghana, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Nigeria and Togo
have also been affected to differing degrees.


Burkina Faso, one of the world's poorest countries, is in the so-
called "meningitis belt" that runs from Senegal across the
southern Sahara to Ethiopia.


On Monday, the World Health Organisation pledged millions of
emergency vaccines to Burkina Faso and in the last two days the
authorities have been handing out free doses in the capital
Ouagadougou.


"We had not predicted (an epidemic) on such a scale," health
ministry chief Gabriel Ouango told national radio, adding that
800,000 doses were available to the capital's residents aged
between two and 30.


Five other vaccination sites have been set up in the southeast,
which has been worst hit by the epidemic, and others are planned
for the interior region. Meningitis, which is an airborne virus
infecting the brain and spinal cord, usually breaks out during
the December-January dry season when it is carried by warm, dry
winds. Symptoms include fever, rashes and vomiting.

