

International Skating Union president Ottavio Cinquanta told US
Figure Skating Association officials the 2009 World Championships
will stay in Los Angeles despite fears over financing from
television deals.


Four days after saying his group only had a "provisional" deal to
stage the 2009 event in Los Angeles, US Figure Skating executive
director David Raith and president Ron Hershberger met with
Cinquanta at the ongoing worlds in Tokyo.


"US Figure Skating looks forward to working with the ISU to put
on an excellent, well-run World Championships in Los Angeles in
2009," Raith said in a statement.


"Athletes, coaches, officials and fans will be welcomed by the
city of Los Angeles and the organizers in this important pre-
Olympic year competition."


The event on the western US coast comes one year ahead of the
Vancouver Winter Olympics up the Pacific Ocean coastline in
Canada.


A statement from the International Skating Union said the
awarding of the event to Los Angeles "demonstrates the
acknowledgement by the ISU of the great contribution by the US
skaters and movement to the development of the sport."


Cinquanta just wishes US television networks would contribute
some money to the group's coffers in exchange for broadcast
rights. He said Tuesday that slow response by US and Canada
broadcasters worries him.


"I'm very concerned," he said. "In both countries, we are
encountering difficulties for TV. I'm speaking about the
countries that invented television.


"I will try to use part of my character, let's say diplomacy if I
have any, in order to find a solution."


A Canadian contract with CBC expires after this season while a
deal with US sport channel ESPN ends after next year.

