

German sports car maker Porsche said Saturday it wants to make a
bid for the giant Volkswagen group, in which it already holds a
27.3 percent stake.


A statement issued after a special board meeting said that
Porsche would raise its stake to up to 31 percent, which under
German law would oblige it to make a full takeover bid.


Porsche, which had previously denied growing rumours of a
takeover move, plans to use an option, exercisable at any time,
to purchase up to a further 3.7 percent of VW shares, the company
statement said.


However a company spokesman, questioned after the statement was
released, said the car maker did not plan to take a majority
stake in VW, as media reported.


It was an "erroneous interpretation", he said, explaining that
Porsche wanted only to pass the 30 percent threshold and trigger
the mandatory offer to shareholders and "from that point be free
to act".


The Porsche statement said that only the minimum price prescribed
by law would be part of its mandatory offer, which is expected to
amount to 100.92 euros per VW ordinary share.


Shares in Volkswagen soared in afternoon trading in Frankfurt on
Friday after rumours that Porsche, its biggest shareholder, was
preparing a public stock offering.


VW shares were up 5.36 percent to 116.74 euros on the Dax index.


A trader said the market was speculating on Porsche making an
offer on Monday with shares at between 117 and 118 euros.


Financing of the mandatory offer has been arranged by ABN AMRO
bank, Barclays Capital, Merrill Lynch, UBS Limited and
Commerzbank AG, the Porsche statement said.


Porsche had earlier expressed its intention of upping its holding
to 29.9 percent, just below the limit of 30 percent that would
trigger a takeover bid.


But the luxury carmaker said several times it had no intention of
exceeding a 29.9-percent holding.

