

A Pentagon probe into the death by friendly fire of an American
football star in Afghanistan blames nine officers for mistakes in
how the incident was handled, US media reported Saturday.


Corporal Pat Tillman was killed on April 22, 2004 in
controversial circumstances while on patrol in southern
Afghanistan, and his family has accused the Army of a cover-up.


According to the New York Times on Saturday: "The Pentagon's
inspector general, in a report expected to be released Monday,
has found a series of errors, including violations of regulations
and poor judgment by the officers in the aftermath of the 2004
shooting death of Corporal Tillman."


The Times, citing an unnamed defense official, added that the
report concludes "the Army failed to take adequate steps to
gather the facts about the shooting death of Corporal Tillman."


A Defense Department spokeswoman declined to comment on the media
reports until Monday.


Tillman turned his back on his footballing career and a multi-
million-dollar contract and enlisted in the US Army after the
September 11, 2001, terror attacks.


After his death, the army at first said he had been killed in a
battle with Taliban rebels and cast him as a national hero.


But after a few weeks it admitted that the 27-year-old had been
killed by "friendly fire" from US troops during an operation. An
Afghan soldier with Tillman was also killed in the incident.


Tillman's family has accused the army of seeking to cover up the
real circumstances of his death, asking why his uniform and body
armor were burned the day after he was killed


The official also told the New York Times that the inspector
general report does not recommend specific punishments for the
nine officers.


Their identities were not immediately learned, although the Times
said they include four generals.

