

Match-fixing still exists in cricket, England captain Michael
Vaughan said in an interview published Saturday, amid claims
murdered Pakistan coach Bob Woolmer was to expose corruption in
the sport.


Asked by The Sun newspaper whether he believes match-rigging goes
on in the world game, Vaughan said: "If I'm honest, yes, I think
it does."


Speculation has mounted since Woolmer's death on Sunday that he
was about to blow the whistle on the practice in a new book, and
that criminals keen to avoid detection were behind his death,
which has shocked the sport.


But those claims have been denied by Woolmer's family in South
Africa, the Pakistan Cricket Board and his co-author, Ivo
Tennant, who told The Times newspaper Saturday that the
suggestion could be "dismissed unequivocally".


Woolmer was coach of South Africa when their former captain
Hansie Cronje was bought off by bookmakers in 1996, but was never
alleged to have been involved himself.


He died a day after Pakistan's shock defeat to minnows Ireland
that knocked the team out of the sport's showpiece tournament.


The Sun said the International Cricket Council's Anti-Corruption
Unit was investigating unusual betting patterns in Pakistan's
World Cup defeat to the West Indies on March 13.


The daily tabloid said investigators were probing a theory that
Pakistan could still have qualified for the second stage by
beating Ireland and Zimbabwe but betting plans went awry after
Pakistan lost to Ireland.


The Sun quoted Vaughan, who leads England out against Kenya
Saturday, as saying he had never experienced match-fixing with
any team he has played for, or with teammates or opponents.


"But my gut feeling is that there is still some kind of
corruption in the game," he added.


"I feel it is very hard to clear corruption from cricket."

