

Spaniard Oscar Freire of Rabobank cruised to victory in the
centenary edition of Milan-San Remo, the opening one-day classic
of the season, for the second time here on Saturday.


The 31-year-old reclaimed the title he last won in 2004 ahead of
Australian Allan Davis, who was followed by Belgian Tom Boonen
and Australian Robbie McEwen.


Another Australian, Stuart O'Grady of the CSC team, finished in
fifth place just ahead of Germany's former four-time winner Erik
Zabel of the Milram team.


Freire, world champion in 1999, 2001, 2004, had been just behind
Zabel's teammate Alessandro Petacchi on the Via Roma's home
straight after the Italian sprint ace had been led in by his
trusty 'train'.


The Spaniard, known for lightning finishes which often surprise
rivals metres before the line, this time attacked early to win
convincingly and a few bike lengths ahead of Davis, who was
making his major race debut for his new team Discovery Channel.


Petacchi, who won the race in 2005, eventually finished down in
eighth place.


"I had great legs today," said a modest Freire, who is from
Cantabria in north- west Spain but is now based in Switzerland.


In the final kilometre the main bunch caught up with Italian
Riccardo Ricco and Belgian Philippe Gilbert, who had attacked on
the Poggio climb six kilometres from the finish.


Earlier in the race a six-man breakaway had been at the front for
nearly 180km, however their advantage on the main peloton came to
an end at the strategically- placed Cipressa climb 25km from the
finish.


Italian Franco Pellizotti and Ukraine's Yaroslav Popovych led the
race over the climb, but were then reeled in by the peloton as
they began to climb the Poggio.

