

Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak on Saturday dismissed US
criticism of a forthcoming referendum on constitutional changes,
ahead of a visit by US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice.


"We take the path towards reform with conviction and without
looking back," Mubarak told a gathering in the southern city of
Assiut.


"I will not accept pressures or orders or conditions," he said.
"I will not be swayed into gambling with the future of this
nation and I will be relentless in defending the future of its
people."


Rice said on Friday that the lack of democratic change in Egypt
was disappointing and voiced her concern over Monday's
referendum.


Egytian Foreign Minister Ahmed Abul Gheit earlier on Saturday
urged Washington not to interfere with domestic political issues.


"The United States and Egypt have friendly and strategic
relations but Egypt cannot allow its friends' intervention in its
internal affairs," Abul Gheit told reporters after a meeting
between UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon and Mubarak.


In his speech Mubarak insisted that the amendments would mark a
step forward in Egypt's political life, without ignoring the
threat of terrorism.


"The dangers of terrorism will continue to increase in this
region," he said. "The amendments will take into consideration
the necessity to strike a balance between the need to move
forward in our political life and the preservation of Egypt's
stability and security."


Egyptian opposition and human rights groups have described the
constitutional changes, which have already been approved by
parliament, as a major setback for pluralism and basic freedoms.

