

Policemen were deployed outside the home of Indian wicketkeeper
Mahendra Singh Dhoni in eastern India on Saturday as angry
cricket fans took to the streets to protest the team's probable
exit from the World Cup.


Another house belonging to Dhoni, currently being built, was the
target of disappointed fans last Sunday after India's shock
defeat against Bangladesh.


"Four policemen have been posted outside his house. Another two
are at the other house under construction, which was attacked
earlier," said M.S Bhatia, police superintendent in Ranchi,
Dhoni's home town. The house being built is also in Ranchi.


India were virtually eliminated from the World Cup after a 69-run
loss against Sri Lanka on Friday in Port of Spain, Trinidad,
upsetting legions of fans in this cricket-crazy nation.


Only an unlikely victory by first-timers Bermuda over Bangladesh
on Sunday will ensure India's back-door entry into the Super
Eights.


"We had great expectations from Dhoni, but he scored zero in two
matches," said protester Amit Kumar.


Posters of Dhoni were burned in Ranchi, while cricket fans
organised mock funerals and beat pictures of the Indian team in
nationwide protests.


In northern Lucknow city -- where Hindus and Muslims had
organised special prayers for India's victory -- protesters
blocked roads and burned effigies of players and coach Greg
Chappell.


An angry mob pelted stones at a restaurant owned by bowler Zaheer
Khan in western Pune city, Headlines Today television network
reported.


A mobile phone text message doing the rounds read: "It is a
requiem for Indian cricket that breathed its last in Port of
Spain. Last rites will be performed on Sunday."

