

Italy's Gianpaolo Pazzini made his mark on the football history
books on Saturday as he scored the first goal at the revamped
Wembley Stadium in England Under-21's 3-3 friendly draw against
their Italian counterparts.


Pazzini's strike after just 25 seconds was the fastest ever
scored at the old or new versions of the stadium and the
Fiorentina striker will also go down in history as the first
player to score a hat-trick in the rebuilt arena.


His dream day started with a rasping long range effort that took
a slight deflection off Anton Ferdinand and flew past goalkeeper
Lee Camp.


David Bentley became the first England player to get on the
scoresheet at the new Wembley when he equalised with a freekick
after 31 minutes.


Bentley's Blackburn team-mate Matt Derbyshire set up England's
second goal when he picked out Wayne Routledge and the winger
finished well just after half time.


Pazzini equalised with a tap-in before Derbyshire restored
England's lead from close range soon after. But Pazzini had the
last word with a fine effort to level again midway through the
second half.


Though only about two-thirds of the seats at the 90,000-capacity
national ground were filled - Wembley is being tested to get its
safety certificate - the English Football Association said it was
still the "largest ever under-21s crowd in world football
history."


The FA were given the keys to Wembley earlier this month after
work on it was finally completed, years behind schedule and at a
final cost of 800 million pounds.


The March 24 match is the second of two "ramp-up" events to
ensure the stadium is in working order, the first being a March
17 community day.

