

Carlos Alberto Parreira made a winning start as coach of South
Africa when the 2010 World Cup hosts cruised to a 3-0 triumph
over Chad in an African Nations Cup qualifier here on Saturday.


Striker Surprise Moriri headed Bafana Bafana (The Boys) in front
after 32 minutes and midfielder Delron Buckey struck the crucial
second goal as the first half entered stoppage time.


Any doubt about the outcome ended with 14 minutes left in the
hot, dusty Chadian capital when Sibusiso Zuma atoned for several
first half misses by stabbing the ball into the net and
completing the rout.


Victory lifted slow starters South Africa to the top of Group 11
with seven points from three matches after a 0-0 home draw with
Congo and a gritty 1-0 win in Zambia last year.


Congo host Zambia in Brazzaville on Sunday and a two-goal win for
the 'Red Devils' would lift them above Bafana Bafana because they
would have scored  more goals.


The 12 group winners are guaranteed places at the finals of the
biennial tournament in Ghana next January and February with the
best three runners-up also qualifying.


Parreira led his native Brazil to the 1994 World Cup title and
quit after the defending champions made a quarter-finals exit to
France in the same competition last year.


He promised South Africans victory in central Africa, but
stressed that beautiful Brazil-style football would come a
distant second to securing  maximum points as Bafana seek a
seventh consecutive Nations Cup appearance.


And so it proved as the visitors adapted well to a hard, bumpy
national stadium pitch and created numerous chances while
restricting Chad to a few  timid efforts that never troubled
goalkeeper Rowen Fernandez.


A relaxed Parreira could even afford the luxury of taking off
scorers Moriri and Buckley during the second half of a match
halted for five minues near the end when a piece of tile struck a
Benin assistant referee.

