

New security measures were imposed Saturday to avert more
violence in Nepal's volatile southeast, where 29 people were
killed in clashes between an ethnic group and Maoists, officials
said.


Six people have been arrested on suspicion of involvement in the
bloodshed on Wednesday, officials added.


The moves came after Nepal's former Maoist rebels placed the
bloodied corpses of their comrades on display in the capital on
Friday and threatened retaliation for their deaths.


The 29 leftists were killed in clashes with activists belonging
to the Mahadhesi People's Rights Forum, which represents the
ethnic group who live in a fertile strip of land known as the
Terai along Nepal's border with India.


The clashes, the latest in a string of deadly battles between the
leftists and the Mahadhesis, have cast a cloud over last
November's peace deal, which  ended ten years of civil war
between Maoist rebels and the government.


"A daytime curfew was imposed on Golbazaar town after we learnt
Maoists planned to disrupt a Mahadhesi programme," said
administrator Shashi Shekhar Shrestha of Siraha district, 140
kilometres (87 miles) southeast of Kathmandu.


In Biratnagar town, officials said they had banned protest
rallies for four days to head off potential clashes between the
leftists and the Mahadhesis.


Six Mahadhesis were arrested on Friday "during raids" in the
region, on suspicion of being involved in the clashes,
superintendent of police Ram Kumar Khanal told AFP by telephone
from Rautahat district, 90 kilometres south of Kathmandu.


The police officer did not specify exactly what charges they
might face.


Mahadhesis have been staging a series of deadly protests since
January in a bid to win greater representation in national
politics.

