

Serbian police said on Saturday they have arrested a Muslim man
suspected of being leader of a group planning "terrorist attacks"
in the country, police said.


Jasmin Smailovic, 30, from the southern region of Sandzak was the
fifth person arrested in a crackdown on a group of Wahhabis --
Muslims who practice a traditional values of Sunni Islam promoted
by extremists -- arrested last week for allegedly preparing
attacks against Serbia in a secret training camp.


He was immediately put in a 30-day detention along with others,
police said in a statement.


At the time of arrest, police also seized munitions, bombs, ID
cards and what they said was a terrorist propaganda in the swoop
at the camp in a large cave in the Velika Ninaja mountain, near
the border with Montenegro, some 250 kilometres (155 miles)
southwest from Belgrade.


Novi Pazar is the main town in the Sandzak region, which
straddles the Serbia- Montenegro border, and is home to two rival
Muslim political parties.


In recent years it has been the scene of a tense political
struggle that at times has flared into violence between
supporters of the ultra-nationalist SDA and the moderate
Democratic Party of Sandzak (SDP).


Muslims comprise some 45 percent of Sandzak's population of
around 420,000.


In the past months, several religion-linked incidents were
reported in Sandzak, with Muslims promoting more traditional
Islam values blaming local clerics and believers for failing to
practice it.

