

Japan's Miki Ando won her first women's singles title at the
world figure skating championships on Saturday.


Former and current world junior champions Mao Asada and South
Korea's Kim Yu-Na finished second and third respectively.


"The women's event is the last one of the week and I skated at
the very last start, so it was very difficult not to be nervous,"
said Ando, 19, with tears in her eyes.


"But I'm very happy that I scored my personal best and also did
in the short programme yesterday. I'm really happy that I can
become the new world champion at the event held in Japan," added
Ando.


Ando scored her personal best of 127.11 points for her free
skating to add to her personal best in the short programme for a
total of 195.09 points.


It was the first women's title for Japan since Yuka Sato's
victory in the 1994 championships, also held in Japan. Ando
became the third Japanese champion, with Midori Ito winning in
1989.


The 16-year-old Asada, fifth in the short programme Friday, gave
an immaculate performance to score a personal best 133.13 points
for a total of 194.45 points.


The 16-year-old Kim, the Grand Prix Final winner, who started the
free skating with a 3.97-point lead, fell doing a triple Lutz-
double toeloop combination to earn only 114.19 points for 186.14
points.


Defending champion Kimmie Meissner of the United States, 17,
ended in fourth with 180.23 points, while European champion
Carolina Kostner of Italy also suffered a fall to finish sixth
with 168.92 points.

