

A plethora of bomb and mortar attacks killed 16 people on
Saturday around Baghdad and the troubled Sunni Arab heartland of
Al-Anbar where three militants died in a US air strike, security
sources said.


Four police and a civilian died in a suicide truck bombing
against a police station in the volatile southern Baghdad Sunni
district of Dura, a known haunt of Al-Qaeda in Iraq
fundamentalists, a defence ministry official said.


Eight policemen were also wounded in the attack.


The official said a twin mortar attack in the nearby Abu Chir
district killed three people and wounded seven more, including
two women and a child.


Four people were killed and 30 others wounded in another truck
bomb outside a small Shiite religious site just as prayers were
finishing in the mixed sectarian town of Al-Haswa, south of the
Iraqi capital, a police source said.


Four mortar rounds slammed into the same area after the attack.
The attacks left several shops destroyed.


In insurgency-racked western Iraq, the US military said three
militants were killed in an air strike and 12 suspects captured
in raids targeting Al-Qaeda in Iraq and foreign fighter
facilitators.


The air strike was called in after a fighter detonated a suicide
vest, killing himself during a US-led operation to arrest him and
another three gunmen in a rural area southeast of Ar-Rutbah, the
military said.


After the three "terrorists" escaped in a vehicle, a US warplane
carried out an air strike killing all of three inside.


Elsewhere in Al-Anbar, Iraq's desert province that neighbours
Jordan, Saudi Arabia and Syria, four Iraqi soldiers were killed
when a roadside bomb exploded in the former rebel bastion of
Fallujah, said police Captain Ahmed Faisal.


Insurgent attacks have continued throughout Baghdad and Iraq
despite an ongoing US-led security operation launched last month
in and around the capital to curb the insurgent and sectarian
bloodshed.

