

South Africa said on Saturday that DR Congo's ex-vice president
Jean-Pierre Bemba, who is holed up in its embassy in Kinshasa,
had called for a truce after deadly clashes.


Pretoria said in a written statement that it was "deeply
concerned" after two days of violence in the capital of the
Democratic Republic of Congo, where South Africa has been a key
contributor to the peace process.


"Mr Bemba has taken refuge in the South African compound from
where he has called for a truce," the South African foreign
ministry said in the statement.


It added: "The South African government appeals to all the forces
in the DRC to immediately cease hostilities and begin
negotiations to allow the democratic processes to continue."


Although the DRC capital was calm early Saturday, at least 60
people, most of them soldiers, have been killed since Thursday in
clashes between government soldiers and Bemba's guards.


Bemba, also a former rebel who lost the presidential election in
October to Joseph Kabila, has refused to have his vice-
presidential bodyguard integrated into the regular army, arguing
that his personal security could not be guaranteed.


When the clashes erupted, he sought refuge in the South African
embassy in Kinshasa. DRC authorities later issued an arrest
warrant for him alleging high treason.


South African Deputy Foreign Minister Aziz Pahad on Friday also
called for a ceasefire, warning violence threatened to "open a
Pandora's box for other people to unleash violence in order to
achieve what they believe they failed to get" through the
negotiated settlement yielding the current government.


South African President Thabo Mbeki's special envoy to DRC,
Sydney Mufamadi, has been in contact with all the DRC parties and
is expected to go to the country as soon as possible, Pretoria
said.

