

Matthew Hayden smashed the fastest World Cup century as Australia
posted their highest tournament score of 377-6 in their high-
profile Group A match against South Africa on Saturday.


The left-handed opener hit 101 off just 68 balls and put on 106
for the first wicket with Adam Gilchrist (42) to set the
cornerstone for Australia's big total in the group's final game
between the world's top two ranked teams.


Michael Clarke (92) and Ricky Ponting (91) then lit up the
innings during their rapid 161-run third wicket stand which came
off 130 deliveries as both took full advantage of the short
straight boundaries at Warner Park.


Australia's previous World Cup highest total of 359-2 was made
against India at Johannesburg in the 2003 final.


The 35-year-old Hayden reached his hundred off 66 balls, beating
the previous best century of 67 balls set by Canada's John
Davison against the West Indies at Centurion in 2003.


He achieved the record with a six off South African skipper
Graeme Smith.


Hayden finally fell to a sharp Herschelle Gibbs catch off Jacques
Kallis' bowling after hitting 14 boundaries and four towering
sixes.


South African were sloppy in the field, twice dropping Clarke to
add to their bowling problems. Spearhead Shaun Pollock went for
83 runs in his 10 wicketless overs, while Makhaya Ntini went for
68 in his nine with one wicket.


Hayden was the more aggressive of the two openers, hitting
Pollock for a boundary and two sixes in the fifth over to brought
up Australia's 50.


He then greeted first-change Charl Langeveldt with the same
disdain, hitting the fast bowler for his seventh boundary to
reach a personal half-century off just 38 balls.


Langeveldt finally provided the first breakthrough when Gilchrist
drove an outgoing delivery straight into the hands of cover to
Herschelle Gibbs in the 15th over. Gilchrist hit six boundaries
and a six in his run-a-ball knock.


Ponting, who completed 10,000 one-day runs when on eight, hit
eight boundaries and two sixes during his 91-ball knock.


The 32-year-old Australian skipper reached the landmark when he
hit a six off Hall over long on, becoming the seventh batsmen to
score 10,000 or more runs in one-day internationals.


India's Sachin Tendulkar leads the group with 14,847 runs from
384 one-dayers ahead of Inzamam-ul-Haq (11,739), Sanath
Jayasuriya (11,675), Sourav Ganguly (10,632), Brian Lara (10,217)
and Rahul Dravid (10,125).


Clarke, like his captain, fell short of his hundred, in his case
by eight runs. He hit seven boundaries and four sixes before
being run out.


Hall was the best South African bowler with 2-60.

