

US President George W. Bush on Saturday warned his Democrats
foes, who control the Congress, that he will not budge on Iraq
war funding and another feud pitting lawmakers against the White
House.


In his weekly radio address, Bush demanded that the Congress
strip a measure setting a timetable for US forces to withdraw
from Iraq and stood by his refusal to let top aides testify in a
controversy over a prosecutor purge.


"My administration has presented a reasonable way forward on the
matter of US Attorneys, and on ensuring that our men and women in
uniform have the funds and the flexibility they need to win in
Iraq," Bush said.


"It is not too late for us to work together. For the good of our
Nation, I ask the Democratic leaders in Congress to seize the
opportunity before us and move beyond political statements to
bipartisan action," he said.


Bush renewed his threat to veto a 124-billion-dollar emergency
spending bill for Iraq and Afghanistan, and called for lawmaker
to approve the money without any restrictions and strip out funds
for domestic projects.


"Members of Congress need to put our troops first, not politics.
They need to send me a clean bill, without conditions, without
restrictions, and without pork," said the president.


He also gave no ground on whether top White House aides will
testify to Congress about the late-2006 removal of seven federal
prosecutors, amid charges that they were pushed out for political
reasons.


Bush says his advisers will take part in informal, behind-closed-
doors discussions with lawmakers, but not under oath, and without
any recording or transcript of any kind.


"Members of Congress now face a choice: Whether they will waste
time and provoke an unnecessary confrontation, or whether they
will join us in working to do the people's business," he said.

