

Japanese share prices rose 0.52 percent in morning trade Monday
as investors shrugged off a decline in domestic business
confidence and focused on the health of the US economy instead,
dealers said.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
gained 89.52 points to hit 17,377.17 at the lunch break.


The broader TOPIX index of all first-section shares was up 3.58
points or 0.21 percent to 1,717.19.


Decliners outnumbered gainers 958 to 632, with 126 stocks flat.


Volume was 991 million shares, up from 976 million on Friday
morning.


Dealers said that shares were supported by technical buying by
brokers and funds after the start of the new fiscal year on April
1.


A weaker yen also helped to offset a slightly bigger-than-
expected fall in confidence among Japan's largest manufacturers
in the central bank's Tankan survey and a shaky performance on
Wall Street Friday, dealers said.


But Kazuhiro Takahashi, general manager of equities at Daiwa
Securities SMBC, said that the market had shrugged off the Tankan
numbers.


"Investors remained focused on the outlook for the US economy and
markets, and will pay particular attention to upcoming US
indicators such as the jobs data due out Friday," Takahashi said.


Early buying ran out of steam as many investors kept to the
sidelines, awaiting new leads from the US, including possible
updates on corporate earnings guidance, dealers said.


Nikon gained 85 yen or 3.42 percent to 2,570 after the Nikkei
business newspaper reported that the company would report an 83
percent rise in annual net profit.


Takeda Pharmaceutical was up 50 yen or 0.65 percent at 7,780
after the drug maker unveiled late Friday three collaboration and
licensing deals.


Shares in exporters, including leaders in the technology and auto
sectors, generally advanced against the background of the softer
yen.


Sony climbed 70 yen or 1.17 percent to 6,060 and Toyota Motor
inched up 10 yen or 0.13 percent to 7,560.

