

US President George W. Bush notified Congress early Monday that
he planned to sign a free trade agreement with South Korea,
arguing the deal would "further enhance" the bilateral
partnership.


The notification followed an announcement in Seoul that US and
South Korean negotiators had reached a deal that is expected to
boost both countries' exports by billions of dollars.


"The United States-Korea free trade agreement ... will generate
export opportunities for US farmers, ranchers, manufacturers, and
service suppliers, promote economic growth and the creation of
better paying jobs in the United States, and help American
consumers save money while offering them greater choices," Bush
said in a letter to leaders of the Senate and the House of
Representatives.


"The agreement will also further enhance the strong United
States-Korea partnership, which has served as a force for
stability and prosperity in Asia."


The trade deal is the biggest for the United States since the
North American Free Trade Agreement in 1993 and its first with a
major Asian economy. It was sealed after 10 months of tough
negotiations and just before time ran out.


Commerce between the world's largest and 11th-largest economies
totaled 74 billion dollars in 2006 and studies show this could
rise by about 20 percent with the trade agreement.


Bush is determined to push for congressional ratification of the
accord while he still enjoys "fast-track" authority for approving
trade deals, under which Congress can pass or reject them in
their entirety, but not change them.


Still, the battle was expected to be difficult. US House Speaker
Nancy Pelosi and other senior Democrats, in a letter Wednesday to
Trade Representative Susan Schwab, complained of "Korea's
longstanding iron curtain" excluding US manufactures.


In his letter, Bush said his administration "looks forward to
working with the Congress in developing appropriate legislation
to approve and implement this agreement."

