

Precocious professional Morgan Pressel became the youngest player
in LPGA history to win a major title Sunday with her triumph in
the Kraft Nabisco Championship.


Pressel, 18, capped a flawless 3-under-par 69 with a 15-foot
birdie at the final hole for a 3-under total of 285.


As she waited in the clubhouse, overnight co-leader Suzann
Pettersen squandered a three-shot lead to hand the youngster the
victory in the two million-dollar tournament, the first women's
major of 2007.


Pressel, who started the round four strokes off the pace,
collected the 300,000-dollar first prize for her first career
title.


Pressel, who successfully petitioned the LPGA to launch her
rookie season last year when she was just 17, took the
traditional winner's plunge in the pond at the 18th green with
her caddie and her grandmother, Evelyn Krickestein.


The previous youngest major champion was Sandra Post, who was 20
years, 19 days when she won the 1968 LPGA Championship. Pressel
turns 19 in May.


"This is just a dream come true," Pressel said. "This is my first
professional victory and to make it in a major is incredible. ...
Very special, this is really exciting. Overwhelming. Especially
here. There is a lot of history here."


Pressel just missed winning a major in 2005, when South Korean
Birdie Kim holed out from the bunker on the 72nd hole to beat her
at the US Women's Open.


Pettersen, the 2001 Ladies European Tour rookie of the year,
bogeyed 15, double- bogeyed 16 and bogeyed 17 to fall a shot
behind Pressel. She then missed her bid birdie 18 and force a
playoff.


She carded a 74 to finish tied for second on 286 with Britain's
Catriona Matthew (71) and American Brittany Lincicome (72).


Matthew, 37, who returned from a seven-month maternity leave to
tie for fifth in last week's Safeway International, was in the
mix until two bogeys on the back nine.


"It was shame about the finish, but I've done much better than I
expected on my comeback," Matthew said. "At the moment, I do feel
disappointed, but I'm sure I'll look back in a few days and
realize how well I have played."


South Korean Se Ri Pak, bidding to complete a career Grand Slam,
entered the final round tied with Pettersen for the lead but
closed with a five-over 77 to finish tied for 10th, five shots
back. She was joined on 289 by 2006 player of the year Lorena
Ochoa of Mexico, who posted a final-round 72.


Neither defending champion Karrie Webb of Australia nor Swedish
superstar Annika Sorenstam was a factor in the final round. Webb
shot her second straight 73 for 293, while Sorenstam concluded a
disappointing week with a 75 for 297 - tied for 31st.

