

BBC journalist Alan Johnston on Monday marked three weeks in
captivity after being abducted by armed men in Gaza, the longest
a foreigner has been held in the increasingly lawless territory.


Palestinian and foreign journalists were to hold a rally in the
West Bank city of Ramallah in solidarity with the reporter, who
was forced at gunpoint from his car as he drove home from work in
Gaza City on March 12.


On Sunday, Palestinian journalists announced a three-day strike
to protest what they called their government's inadequate
response to Johnston's abduction -- the latest in a string of
foreigner kidnappings over the past year.


"Our colleague Alan Johnston's kidnap is entering its fourth
week," Palestinian Journalists' Union president Naim Tubasi told
AFP. "This makes us think there is a danger to his life and we
are very worried."


Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas and the Islamist movement
Hamas, the majority party in the new unity government, have both
condemned the abduction and pledged to work for Johnston's
release.


Since his abduction, there has been no word on the whereabouts of
Johnston, the British broadcaster's main correspondent in Gaza
for the past three years and one of the few Western
correspondents to be permanently based in the unruly territory.


His was the latest in a spate of kidnappings that has seen around
20 foreigners seized over the past year.


Foreign hostages are normally used as bargaining chips to gain
concessions from the Palestinian Authority, and so far all have
been released unharmed.


Previously, the longest period of captivity spent in the Gaza
Strip by foreign hostages was two weeks last August when two
journalists for the US-based Fox News television network were
abducted.

