

Precocious professional Morgan Pressel became the youngest player
in LPGA history to win a major title Sunday with her triumph in
the Kraft Nabisco Championship.


Pressel, 18, capped a flawless 3-under-par 69 with a 15-foot
birdie at the final hole for a 3-under total of 285.


As she waited in the clubhouse, overnight co-leader Suzann
Pettersen squandered a three-shot lead to hand the youngster the
victory in the two million-dollar tournament, the first women's
major of 2007.


Pressel, who started the round four strokes off the pace,
collected the 300,000-dollar first prize for her first career
title.


"This is just a dream come true," Pressel said. "This is my first
professional victory and to make it in a major is incredible."


Pettersen, the 2001 Ladies European Tour rookie of the year,
bogeyed 15, double- bogeyed 16 and bogeyed 17 to fall a shot
behind Pressel. She then missed her bid birdie 18 and force a
playoff.


She carded a 74 to finish tied for second on 286 with Britain's
Catriona Matthew (71) and American Brittany Lincicome (72).


South Korean Se Ri Pak, bidding to complete a career Grand Slam,
entered the final round tied with Pettersen for the lead but
closed with a five-over 77 to finish tied for 10th, five shots
back. She was joined on 289 by 2006 player of the year Lorena
Ochoa of Mexico, who posted a final-round 72.


Neither defending champion Karrie Webb of Australia nor Swedish
superstar Annika Sorenstam was a factor in the final round. Webb
shot her second straight 73 for 293, while Sorenstam concluded a
disappointing week with a 75 for 297.

