

One of the two British naval personnel featured on new footage
aired on Iranian state television admitted to "apparently"
entering Iranian territorial waters, while another said he
understood why Iran was angry about their "intrusion".


Footage aired on Sky News in Britain showed the pair with
accompanying audio -- which Iranian television has not broadcast
-- standing in front of an Iranian chart of the northern Gulf
waters where the two, and 13 others, were seized on March 23.


Britain insists the eight sailors and seven marines were on a
routine anti- smuggling patrol in Iraqi waters under a UN
mandate, but the Islamic republic says they strayed into its
territorial waters.


The video shows Captain Chris Air speaking to the camera while
pointing to the charts, saying that at "approximately about 10
o'clock in the morning, we were seized, apparently at this point
here, from their maps, from the GPS they've shown us, which is
inside Iranian territorial waters."


Air went on to say that thus far, the group, which includes one
woman, had "been treated very well by all the people here."


"They have looked after us and made sure that we are given enough
food and been treated very well by them, so we thank them for
that."


Following Air on the video was Lieutenant Felix Carman, who also
spoke to the camera, saying: "Yes, I'd like to say to the Iranian
people, I can understand why you were so angry about our
intrusion into your waters."


The two were shown separately on Iranian state television's
Arabic language channel.


Britain condemned the new pictures of its detained service
personnel.


"It's unacceptable for these pictures to be shown," a foreign
ministry spokeswoman told AFP.

