

Australian Foreign Minister Alexander Downer arrived in China on
Monday for talks that will cover a planned Sino-Australian free
trade pact and regional issues such as North Korea's nuclear
programme.


Downer, who arrived in China as part of four-day tour that also
includes Mongolia, will meet with Shanghai officials and the
business community before heading to Beijing on Tuesday, the
Australian government said in a statement.


"My visit to China will provide an opportunity to reaffirm the
strength and maturity of our relationship with China," Downer
said.


Talks are expected to focus on key strategic issues including
China's role in resolving the North Korean nuclear stand-off and
the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) leaders' summit in
Sydney later this year.


Also on the table are discussions concerning plans for a Sino-
Australian free trade pact, the statement said.


Talks have progressed slowly, held up in part because China is
seeking freer trade in goods while Australia is aiming for the
negotiations to liberalise services, a sensitive issue for
Beijing.


"The economic basis of the Australia-China relationship is
strong, but can be further strengthened by an ambitious and
comprehensive Free Trade Agreement," Downer said.


Downer also promised to raise potentially sensitive issues with
China, such as human rights and the situation in Zimbabwe, where
Robert Mugabe's government enjoys strong support from Beijing.


Downer will travel to Mongolia on Wednesday, where he will meet
with leaders as part of efforts to promote Australia's role in
development there and further promote business ties, especially
in mining.


He will return to Beijing for talks with Chinese Foreign Minister
Li Zhaoxing on Thursday.

