

South Korean share prices closed 0.48 percent higher and within
sight of record levels as investors hailed a long awaited free
trade accord with the United States reached Monday, dealers said.


Automobiles and textiles, major beneficiaries of the bilateral
deal, led the advance, with the main board index rising through
1,460 points at one stage. Some of the gains were pared on quick
profit-taking.


The KOSPI index ended up 6.98 points or 0.48 percent at 1,459.53,
off a high of 1,464.98, which was not far from the record finish
of 1,471.04 in February. The day's low was 1,456.06.


Volume was 297 million shares worth 3.4 trillion won (3.62
billion dollars). Gains led falls 434 to 326, with 77 stocks
unchanged.


Institutions and retail investors were net buyers of shares worth
19.6 billion won and 58.1 billion won each while foreign
investors were net sellers for 108.5 billion won.


"The FTA is apparently good news for the market," said Kyobo
Securities analyst Park Seok-Hyun.


He said the deal, still to be ratified in both countries, will
have huge implications for the local economy where the export
sector and related industries account for more than 70 percent of
total output.


Among the key exports, Hyundai Motor jumped 2,200 won or 3.33
percent to 68,300 and Kia Motors soared 700 or 5.51 percent to
13,400.


Car parts maker Hyundai Autonet was up 890 or 12.77 percent to
7,860 and Kumho Tire rallied 800 to 12,800. Hankook Tire gained
550 to 16,150.


Textile and apparel makers Shinwon and Nasan jumped 2,300 and 900
to 25,650 and 16,700, respectively.


IT stocks made limited gains as their access to the US market is
already wide open, dealers said. Samsung Electronics rose 3,000
to 566,000 but Hynix eased 50 to 32,350.


LG Philips LCD added 250 to 33,150 and LG Electronics advanced
200 to 64,400.


SK Telecom ended up 500 at 192,000 but KT was down 850 at 41,350.


Hyundai Heavy jumped 5,500 to 193,500 and Daewoo Shipbuilding
rose 950 to 35,500.

