

Britain and the United States were left scrambling to find out
how much a British spy knew when he defected to the Soviet Union
in the 1950s, newly declassified documents revealed on Monday.


Donald Maclean defected at the height of the Cold War in May 1951
along with fellow agent Guy Burgess, causing a major scandal, and
secret files released by the National Archives at Kew detail the
communication between Britain and the United States in the wake
of his defection.


Though he was considered "very promising" early in his career
after being recruited out of Trinity College, Cambridge, Maclean
had to be posted to the American Department of the Foreign Office
because he went on a drunken rampage in Cairo.


While his superiors thought that he would "avoid undue strain" in
his new position, it turned out that he was put in close contact
with US nuclear policy.


Early reports from the British security services indicated that
Maclean's access was only "political" and not scientific, but in
the following days it emerged that he was secretary of the
Combined Policy Committee -- a top secret group set up to co-
ordinate nuclear policy between Britain, the US and Canada.


The committee's existence itself had been kept secret, but
Maclean's defection prompted the United States to ask whether
"the full extent of Maclean's knowledge" would be revealed.


Britain's response to this question is not included in the files
released on Monday -- several pages have been removed or
destroyed for security purposes.


Then prime minister Clement Attlee sent a note to foreign
secretary Herbert Morrison after he read a report on Maclean's
background -- which detailed his left-wing sympathies -- asking:
"Was any consideration given to these matters in continuing them
(Maclean and Burgess) in their service or in appointing them to
positions of responsibility?"


"There is likely to be a great deal of public criticism."

