

Gunmen have shot dead eight civilians in separate incidents in
Sri Lanka's northern and eastern regions, police said Monday, as
the military and Tiger rebels traded blame for the killings.


Gunmen believed to be from the rebel Liberation Tigers of Tamil
Eelam (LTTE) killed six construction workers and wounded two more
in the eastern district of Batticaloa late Sunday, the defence
ministry said.


It said two more civilians were shot dead by suspected Tiger
rebels in the northern town of Vavuniya, also on Sunday.


The Tamil Tiger rebels denied they were involved in the killing
spree, and accused a breakaway faction allied with government
forces of carrying out the attacks.


"Two of those killed had recently escaped from the Karuna
faction," LTTE spokeswoman N. Selvy said by telephone from the
rebel-held town of Kilinochchi in the island's north.


"We have nothing to do with the killings," Selvy said.


The Karuna faction is led by the LTTE's former eastern commander,
V. Muralitharan, better known as Colonel Karuna. The Tigers
accuse government forces of colluding with the splinter group.


The latest killings came as Sri Lankan jets and helicopter
gunships carried out night-time bombing raids against Tiger rebel
positions.


Fighter aircraft hit a "Sea Tiger" base in the Mullaitivu region,
while Mi-24 helicopter gunships attacked a suspected Tiger mortar
bomb position near the de facto border separating the two forces
in Vavuniya, the ministry said.


The Tamil rebels have waged a 35-year campaign for independence
that has claimed more than 60,000 lives in Sri Lanka.


More than 4,000 people have been killed in the latest upsurge of
fighting that began in December 2005 despite a truce arranged in
2002.

