

Australian share prices fell 1.32 percent Monday after investor
sentiment was rattled by speculation the central bank will raise
interest rates this week, dealers said.


They said major retail banks fell amid heightened speculation
that the Reserve Bank of Australia will raise interest rates by
25 basis points to 6.50 percent on Wednesday.


The benchmark SP/ASX 200 shed 79.2 points to close at the day's
low of 5,915.8 while the broader All Ordinaries slipped 70.6
points to 5,908.2.


Turnover was 1.43 billion shares worth 4.48 billion dollars (3.65
billion US), with falls outnumbering rises 687 to 521. Some 350
stocks were unchanged.


Rate speculation was supported by the release of stronger-than-
expected domestic data related to retail sales and building
approvals, Bell Potter Securities private client advisor Stuart
Smith said.


"Both the futures and bond markets are starting to adjust for a
rate rise even if we don't get one on Wednesday," he said.


Smith said mining stocks also slumped, possibly because of
potential slowing growth in Japan as indicated by the Bank of
Japan Tankan report.


"Overall, the market was fairly subdued although the futures are
showing a healthy 40 points premium to the physical market which
shows the underlying fundamentals are still bullish," Smith said.


The major banks were lower; National Australia Bank lost 0.38
dollars to finish at 40.02 dollars, Commonwealth Bank dropped
0.56 to 49.60, ANZ fell 0.30 to 29.40 and Westpac was 0.45 lower
at 35.90.


The country's fifth largest bank St George plunged 0.94 to 34.09.


Mining giant BHP Billiton fell 0.54 to 29.35 while Rio Tinto lost
1.61 to 77.20. Among other resources stocks Alumina shed 0.16 to
7.15 and Zinifex dropped 0.46 to 15.32.


Dominant telco Telstra fell 0.04 to 4.62 while SingTel added 0.01
to 2.64.


National airline Qantas slipped 0.09 to 5.16 and rival Virgin
Blue fell 0.05 to 2.53.


Pay-TV provider Austar bucked the trend on continued takeover
speculation within the media sector following the government's
decision to end cross ownership and foreign ownership
restrictions this week. Austar shares rose 0.05 to close at 2.06
while newspaper group Fairfax gained 0.02 to 5.00.

