

Cambodia's ruling party Monday declared a landslide victory in
the country's local polls as it continued to secure its grip on
power ahead of national elections next year.


The Cambodian People's Party (CPP) said it had won 1,592 of the
1,621 commune councils -- small administrative bodies that govern
rural villages or city neighbourhoods -- contested in Sunday's
vote.


"Absolutely, the Cambodian People's Party won the elections,"
said CPP spokesman Khieu Kanharith, who is also the minister of
information.


Election monitors had said going into the polls that a CPP
victory was expected, but that opposition parties could also make
gains.


Cambodia's main opposition leader Sam Rainsy told AFP Monday that
his party had doubled the number of commune councils it had led
previously, winning at least 27 top council seats.


The gains insured a greater share of power after the 2008
national elections, he said.


"It means our voices in the 2008 election will double," Sam
Rainsy told reporters.


"Now only CPP and Sam Rainsy Party need to work together ... in
the interests of the people. We are not enemies," he added.


The royalist Funcinpec party, the CPP's coalition government
partner, took only two communes, according to a tally compiled by
the CPP.


The party of ousted royalist leader Prince Norodom Ranariddh won
none, CPP figures showed.


Official results from the National Election Committee (NEC) are
expected to be released April 24. NEC officials said Sunday's
vote was largely free of the violence that had plagued previous
polls in Cambodia.


Prior to the country's first commune council elections in 2002,
local officials were appointed by the government and had remained
largely unchanged since the early 1980s.

