

Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi will meet representatives
from German auto giant Volkswagen to discuss the future of ailing
Malaysian carmaker Proton, officials said Monday.


Facing increasing pressure to find a strategic partner for the
loss-making firm, Abdullah vowed to announce a decision "as soon
as possible" after the government failed to meet a self-imposed
deadline.


"Of course we want to make a decision as soon as possible,"
Abdullah told reporters, while refusing to set a date.


Proton has been in talks with Volkswagen AG for an alliance and a
spokesman for the prime minister said the German automaker had
requested a meeting with Abdullah in Malaysia.


"The prime minister is expecting to meet with Volkswagen," the
spokesman told AFP, without giving a date for the meeting.


The government on Saturday missed its own deadline to announce a
strategic partner for Proton, a move analysts say is crucial for
the carmaker to reverse sliding sales due to increasing
competition and poor models.


Malaysia has already extended the deadline for a decision once,
saying last November it aimed to announce a partner by the end of
January.


Abdullah earlier this month said Proton was in talks with
Volkswagen but would turn to US auto giant General Motors if
those talks failed.


"At the level of the officials, it's nearing conclusion, they
have to present the full report me," Abdullah said Monday, when
asked to confirm if Proton was talking to both Volkswagen and GM.


Earlier this month, negotiations with French car giant PSA
Peugeot-Citroen collapsed in what has turned into a long running
saga to find a partner for the struggling Malaysian company.


Three Malaysian automotive firms have also expressed interest in
partnering the national carmaker.


Proton posted a third consecutive quarterly loss of 281.45
million ringgit (80.40 million dollars) in the three months to
December compared with a net profit of 86.51 million ringgit a
year earlier.

