

Over 1,000 experts from Southeast Asia, Japan and the World
Health Organisation took part Monday in an exercise to sharpen
response to any future bird flu pandemic.


The exercise involved an supposed outbreak of the human strain of
bird flu in a fictitious area of Cambodia, where about 9,500
people in 20 villages were at risk of getting infected.


It was run from the WHO Western Pacific office in Manila and
focused on the rapid fielding of personnel to contain the threat.


WHO regional director Shigeru Omi issued a mock appeal to members
of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) for the
swift delivery of Tamiflu supplies and protective equipment to
the outbreak zone.


In the simulation, goggles and masks were also "dispatched" from
a stockpile managed by a private contractor in Singapore to
Cambodia.


"The exercise ... is a test of rapid communications within the
partners taking part: ASEAN, Japan, Cambodia, and WHO," said WHO
regional spokesman Peter Cordingley.


The exercise was a "learning process", he said.


"We will be trying to establish what obstacles might crop up in a
real-life situation. This will help us be better prepared if
there is a real crisis," he said.


Recent cases of human deaths in Indonesia were "a reminder that
the threat from this virus is very real and we must improve our
readiness for a worst-case scenario," Cordingley said.


On Sunday, Indonesian authorities confirmed two more deaths from
the the human strain of bird flu, taking the death toll to 71.


Test results confirmed a 22-year-old man and a 28-year-old woman
died from the deadly H5N1 strain of the virus, making Indonesia
the worst hit within the 10-nation ASEAN.


The WHO says there have been 281 cases of bird flu infection
among humans and 169 deaths worldwide, mostly in Southeast Asia.


Scientists fear the H5N1 bird flu strain could mutate into a form
easily spread among humans, leading to a global pandemic with the
potential to kill millions.

