

China on Monday officially re-appointed Donald Tsang as Hong
Kong's chief executive, as Premier Wen Jiabao endorsed the
election process that gave him another stint in charge of the
territory.


"The election, conforming to the principle of openness, fairness
and justice, fully tallied with the Basic Law and other relevant
laws," the official Xinhua news agency quoted Wen as saying
following the March 25 ballot.


"Tsang's victory in the election meets the Hong Kong people's
expectations and reflects their trust in him."


Wen's comments came as he officially appointed Tsang to carry on
as chief executive for five years, with his new term to start on
July 1, following his comfortable win in the poll of election
committee members in Hong Kong.


The nearly 800 members of the election committee are the only
people in the territory of nearly seven million people allowed to
vote, and they gave Beijing- backed Tsang a 649-123 win over pro-
democracy candidate Alan Leong.


Universal suffrage envisioned in Hong Kong's Basic Law, put into
place after Britain gave the territory back to China in 1997, has
not yet come about, and only some citizens are allowed to vote
for some election committee members.


Nevertheless it was the first time since the handover that the
race for leader was contested. Leong said he hoped his presence
would help nudge Hong Kong down the road to full democracy.


Wen on Monday applauded Tsang's first stint as chief executive,
which came after the resignation of Tung Chee-hwa, Hong Kong's
first post-colonial leader, in 2005.


"Tsang has led the local government in enhancing its governance
capability, developing the economy and improving people's
livelihood, and handling actively and properly various problems
of public concern," Wen said.


"His administration performance has been widely applauded by
local people from all walks of life."


Following Wen's announcement, Tsang released a statement thanking
Beijing for its support.

