

The tsunami that crashed into the Solomon Islands on Monday came
with no warning for local residents and was more than big enough
to kill, an expert said.


The tsunami was triggered by an earthquake, packing a magnitude
of 8.0, which struck just 40 kilometers (25 miles) off the
western town of Gizo.


A wall of water up to five-metres (16.5 feet) high smashed onto
the township causing severe damage, according to witnesses.


"If it was 10 or 20 foot (three to six meters) it was a big
tsunami -- that's something that kills," said Barry Hirshorn, a
geophysicist with the Hawaii-based Pacific Tsunami Warning
Center.


"It's not 50-foot like the ones in the 2004 tsunami, but we start
to worry at the one-meter mark," he told AFP from Honolulu.


He was referring to the 2004 Boxing Day tsunami that caused
widespread devastation and killed more than 200,000 people around
the Indian Ocean following an undersea 9.0-magnitude quake.


At least 15 people were killed in Monday's tsunami around Gizo, a
Solomon Islands official said.


Aircraft and aid workers had been dispatched to the remote
disaster zone to properly assess the damage and cost of human
life, the government said.


Monday's shallow temblor was a "tsunami earthquake," which is
different to a quake that generates a tsunami in that it produces
a much larger tsunami than you would expect from the magnitude of
the quake, Hirshorn said.


"A classic example of this kind of quake was the Java quake in
July last year -- that was a classic slow quake, or tsunami
earthquake," he said.


That tsunami killed 650 people and left more than 100,000
homeless.

