

The head of GlaxoSmithKline, Europe's biggest drug maker, will
meet with the World Health Organisation's director-general on
Friday to discuss ways to provide vaccinations against the deadly
H5N1 strain of bird flu, the company's head said in an interview
published Monday.


Speaking to The Times, Jean-Pierre Garnier declined to comment on
the specific content of his upcoming discussions with Margaret
Chan, but said that the British pharmaceutical group "had a
proposal to make."


"We will be a piece of the solution. We want to work with the
WHO," Garnier told the daily.


He also said: "They (poorer countries) are concerned that the
pharma companies are not going to have enough (vaccines) for
them."


"Many of those countries don't have unlimited financial means, so
there is kind of an anxiety about what do we do now."


Garnier said that further details would be made public after his
meeting with Chan.


The World Health Organisation says H5N1 has infected at least 282
people and killed at least 169 of them, mostly in Southeast Asia,
since the end of 2003.


Last week Indonesia lifted a ban on sharing bird flu samples with
the WHO for tests said to be key to tracking and tackling the
disease.


It had stopped sending samples over concerns drug firms would end
up using them to develop costly vaccines that would be beyond the
budgets of poorer countries.


Firms now need permission from a country to gain access to its
virus samples under a deal agreed with the WHO after days of
international talks in Jakarta.


Scientists worry the virus could mutate into a form easily spread
among humans, leading to a global pandemic with the potential to
kill millions.


The fear stems from the lessons of past influenza pandemics. One
in 1918, just after the end of World War I, killed 20 million
people worldwide.

