

The dollar edged lower in Asian trade on Monday as the yen
shrugged off a slightly bigger-than-expected decline in Japanese
business confidence, dealers said.


They said market participants were waiting nervously for economic
indicators to be released this week amid uncertainty about the
prospects for the US economy, while watching growing tensions
between Iran and Britain.


The dollar declined to 117.73 yen in Tokyo afternoon trade from
117.81 in New York late Friday.


The euro rose to 1.3360 dollars from 1.3356 but fell to 157.25
yen after 157.35.


The Japanese currency initially came under pressure after the
Bank of Japan said business confidence fell back from a two-year
high in the three months to March, marking the first decline for
a year.


But the yen later recovered ground as market participants took
the view that the dip will not threaten the Japanese economic
recovery.


"The Tankan showed some weakness but that was still within
expectations," said Saburo Matsumoto, chief forex strategist at
Sumitomo Trust Bank.


"For some players, the result was even better than originally
anticipated," Matsumoto said. "It is hard for any players to
continue selling the yen only based on the Tankan result."


Confidence among Japan's big manufacturers dropped to 23 in March
from 25 in December, the Tankan survey showed, slightly below
market expectations for a figure of 24, the central bank said.


The market keeping a close watch on trade frictions between the
United States and China, as well as the standoff between Britain
and Iran over 15 British sailors and marines seized in the Gulf.


And the all-important monthly US labour market report, which is
seen as one of the best indicators of economic momentum, is due
on Friday.


"While there will be daily fluctuations, market consensus appears
to be for a stronger dollar against the yen for the time being,"
said Hironobu Hagi, deputy general manger at Shinsei Bank's
capital markets division.


"But a one-way rise in the dollar is unlikely as players are
expected to take a cautious stance this week ahead of US jobless
data," Hagi said.


The dollar rose to 1.5170 Singapore dollars in late Asian trade
from 1.5168 on Friday, to 33.086 Taiwan dollars from 33.077 and
to 48.270 Philippine pesos from 48.250.


It eased to 9,107 Indonesian rupiah from 9,124, to 938.25 South
Korean won from 940.65 and to 32.31 Thai baht from 32.38.

