

Australia issued a tsunami alert Monday for residents of its
northeast coast after a powerful 8.0-magnitude earthquake hit the
Solomon Islands, but said the wave posed little threat.


Geoscience Australia said that while the tsunami posed no threat
to the far north of Queensland state, it could still wreak damage
in other areas of the Pacific.


The agency also upgraded its earlier reading of the magnitude to
8.1 on the Richter scale.


Queensland officials said coastal residents were being warned to
stay away from low-lying areas and beaches.


"We are taking every possible precaution," said Emergency
Management Queensland spokesman John Hall.


"We are asking people to stay away from beaches and low-lying
areas because these are the most dangerous areas," he said.


A Geoscience Australia spokeswoman said the tsunami was between
10 and 20 centimeters (four to eight inches) at the single point
it was measured, posing little threat to residents in isolated
areas of Australia.


"It's not a really big (threat) for the coast of Australia," she
said.


Still, Bureau of Meteorology spokesman Rob Webb said that while
the tsumani sounded small, it had so far only been measured in
one place and still had the potential to cause damage in the
Pacific.


"It can act very differently in different locations," he said.
"It's quite a dangerous situation that we are monitoring very
closely -- 8.1 is enough to generate a tsumani across the
Pacific."


A tsunami battered the western edge of the Solomon Islands,
causing damage to towns and villages, officials said.


One local official quote by Japanese public broadcaster NHK said
three people had been killed. Another official told the
Australian Broadcasting Corporation there were unconfirmed
reports of up to nine missing.

