

A television report revealing sales scams at jewellery stores in
Hong Kong could damage the city's reputation as a shopping
destination, tourist officials said here Monday.


The report, which alleged that a Chinese tourist had been sold
fake diamonds, follows a spate of complaints that unscrupulous
tour guides were cashing in on a flood of mainland visitors.


Chinese Central Television (CCTV) claimed that tourists from
Shenzhen city bought a 9,800 Hong Kong dollar (1,260 US dollar)
diamond necklace and 16,000 dollar diamond watch -- but the
jewels later proved to be only glass.


Other members of the tour group also complained of being stung in
other scams.


The stores denied the claims and are seeking legal advice,
according to a report in the South China Morning Post daily
newspaper.


But Joseph Tung, of the Travel Industry Council, the Hong Kong's
tourism trade organisation, said he was concerned by the
broadcast.


"This sort of report can only harm Hong Kong's reputation," Tung
said, adding that the incidents were being investigated.


"We are working with Customs to ensure that shops get the message
that this sort of thing is unacceptable -- goods descriptions
must be genuine," he added.


Hong Kong is famous for high-end cut-price shopping, especially
among mainland Chinese tourists, who made up half of Hong Kong's
25 million visitors last year.


However, the city's reputation has been under question after
revelations of travel scams targeting mainland Chinese tourists.


Many come on so-called "zero-fee tours", which offer free
holidays in return for visitors spending much of their time in
stores and restaurants that pay the guides a commission.


The scam emerged after scores of visitors complained they had
been subjected to hard-sell practices by tour guides to increase
their commissions.


One tour group even claimed to have been abandoned by its guide
after refusing to spend more money.

