

Business confidence among Japan's major manufacturers fell back
from a two-year high over the three months to March, marking the
first decline for one year, the central bank reported Monday.


Confidence among Japan's big manufacturers dropped to 23 in March
from 25 in December, the Bank of Japan's quarterly Tankan survey
showed, slightly below market expectations for a figure of 24.


A positive reading means confident firms outweigh the pessimistic
ones.


The dip appears to reflect worries among Japanese companies about
the health of the US economy, recent financial market volatility
and an uncertain outlook for the Japanese yen.


On a brighter note, sentiment among major non-manufacturers held
steady at 22 in December, defying market expectations of a
decline to 20.


The big manufacturers forecast a further drop in confidence to 20
by June while the large non-manufacturers expect a pick-up to 23.


The survey also showed that companies are cautious about their
plans for spending on new plants and equipment, which has been
one of the key drivers in Japan's recovery from a slump
stretching back over a decade.


The Tankan survey of almost 10,000 firms showed that all
companies expect to trim capital expenditure by 0.3 percent on
average in the current fiscal year to March 2008, after a 9.5
percent rise last year.


Large companies in all industries plan to raise capital spending
by 2.9 percent this fiscal year, down from an 11.9 percent rise
last year.


Analysts note, however, that Japanese firms tend to be cautious
on their spending plans at the start of the fiscal year.


Investors appeared unfazed by the dip in confidence among the big
manufacturers, with the Tokyo Nikkei-225 share index gaining
55.13 points or 0.32 percent to 17,342.78 in the first minutes of
trading.

