

Japanese share prices closed down 1.50 percent on Monday,
reversing early gains as investors remained nervous about the
outlook for the US economy, dealers said.


They said that a drop in Japanese business confidence did little
to lift the market's mood, with sentiment among major
manufacturers down for the first time in a year, according to a
central bank report.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
fell 259.24 points to 17,028.41, after briefly dipping below the
key 17,000 points level.


The TOPIX index of all issues on the Tokyo Stock Exchange's first
section shed 31.12 points or 1.82 percent to 1,682.49.


Decliners outnumbered gainers 1,503 to 162, with 61 stocks flat.


Turnover was 2.34 billion shares, up from 1.94 billion on Friday.


"Investors were not impressed by the Tankan results and are
awaiting fresh clues about the outlook in the US," said Tatsuo
Kurokawa, a strategist at Japan Asia Securities.


Investors will pay particular attention to US employment data,
due out Friday, and to possible updates of earnings guidance by
US companies before the season for reporting quarterly results
opens, dealers said.


Confidence among Japan's big manufacturers dropped to 23 in March
from 25 in December, the Tankan survey showed, slightly below
market expectations for a figure of 24.


Kazuhiro Takahashi, general manager of equities at Daiwa
Securities SMBC, said the market had largely shrugged off the
Tankan numbers.


"Investors remained focused on the outlook for the US economy and
markets, and will pay particular attention to upcoming US
indicators such as the jobs data due out Friday," Takahashi said.


Shares in the steel, non-ferrous metals, shipping and real estate
sectors were among the heaviest fallers as investors moved to
lock in recent gains.


Nippon Steel slid 37 yen or 4.47 percent to 791, Kobe Steel lost
21 yen or 4.42 percent to 454 and JFE Holdings fell 360 yen or
5.16 percent to 6,610.


Mitsubishi Materials lost 23 yen or 4.11 percent to 536 and
Sumitomo Metal Industries fell 115 yen or 5.05 percent to 2,160.


Nikon gained 40 yen or 1.61 percent to 2,525 after the Nikkei
business newspaper reported that the company would report an 83
percent rise in annual net profit.


On the foreign exchange market, the dollar declined to 117.73 yen
in Tokyo afternoon trade from 117.81 in New York late Friday.


The euro rose to 1.3360 dollars from 1.3356 but fell to 157.25
yen after 157.35.

