

Indian share prices plunged 3.4 percent by noon Monday, dragged
down by a sharp sell-off in bank, auto and housing stocks after a
surprise central bank interest rate hike last week, dealers said.


Friday's move by the Reserve Bank of India to hike a key short-
term lending rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 7.75
percent and the amount of cash that banks must hold on deposit --
by half a percentage point -- raised concern that credit costs
would rise sharply.


The 30-share Mumbai stock exchange Sensex index opened nervously
and fell as much as 448.5 points or 3.4 percent to a day low of
12,623.6 around 0640 GMT.


Banking, construction and housing stocks were the hardest hit as
the rate hike was aimed at slowing down India's booming housing
market and asset price inflation.


India's largest bank, State Bank of India, fell 55.9 rupees or
5.63 percent to 937 while leading motorcycle maker Bajaj Auto
shed 140.4 rupees or 5.79 percent to 2,285.


Wholesale prices have stayed steady above six percent for the
past month, well above a 5.0-5.5 percent range forecast by the
central bank.


"The sharp rupee gains (againt the dollar) to 43 levels and high
credit growth impacted the central bank's decision to raise
rates," said Manika Premsingh, economist with financial services
firm Edeliweiss Capital.


Dealers said equities could remain subdued for the next few
trading days.


"Select buying may come next week as investors review the full-
year earnings season," said Hiten Mehta, a fund manager with
Fortune Financial Services.


Most Indian companies will report earnings for the financial year
ended March this month with closely tracked software firm Infosys
Techologies scheduled to announce on April 13.

