

Smoking in enclosed places in Wales became illegal on Monday,
with anyone caught lighting a cigarette after 6 am (0500 GMT)
facing a fine.


The Welsh ban follows a similar set of restrictions imposed in
Scotland last year, and England will join the two regions on July
1.


Those who smoke in pubs and bars in Wales face a 50-pound
(74-euro, 98-dollar) fine, and the Welsh Assembly government has
launched a campaign to raise awareness of the ban, in particular
to point out that it comes into force in Wales before England.


"There is not going to be a punitive, draconian approach to
this," Welsh Health Minister Brian Gibbons insisted.


"I would be shocked if there is anybody who this is likely to
affect in Wales who doesn't know that the ban is coming in."


It won't just be smokers who could be penalised -- landlords and
managers who do not display adequate "No Smoking" signs will be
fined 200 pounds, and could face fines of 2,500 pounds if they
allow people to smoke on their property.


Anyone fined can challenge the penalty in court, however.


Theatres in Wales also face restrictions -- actors on stage also
face the ban, even if their character is a smoker.


While ministers and health campaigners have trumpeted the ban,
some local businesses are not so sure -- Martyn Mears, the
landlord of the Y Mochyn Du pub in Cardiff thinks that "it's
going to be very difficult."


"It will really harm trade, which is going down anyway ... if you
don't want to be in a smoky atmosphere, don't go in a pub. Some
pubs stopped people smoking last week, ahead of the ban, but I've
left it to the last day.


"I just couldn't afford not to," he told Britain's domestic Press
Association.

