

Leandro Barbosa scored 29 points and the Phoneix Suns shot 65
percent from the field in a 126-104 thrashing of the league-
leading Dallas, who had their nine- game winning streak snapped.


Amare Stoudemire scored 24 points and Steve Nash added 23 and 11
assists for the Suns (55-18), who gained a split of the season
series as they became the only team to beat the Mavericks (61-12)
twice this season.


In perhaps the best game of the National Basketball Association
campaign, Phoenix scored a thrilling 129-127 double-overtime
victory at Dallas on March 14 that saw both teams erase seemingly
insurmountable late deficits.


Headed for another high-scoring affair on Sunday, the Suns used a
10-2 run capped by Barbosa's 3-pointer to open a 79-71 lead with
4:02 left in the third quarter.


The Mavericks, who still have an outside shot at 70 wins, closed
to 93-88 on a jumper by Devin Harris with 9:39 to play.


But Boris Diaw flipped in a basket and Barbosa hit another
3-pointer to double the lead.


Less than a minute later, Dallas superstar Dirk Nowitzki twisted
his ankle as he missed a jumper and took a seat on the bench.


Phoenix pulled away as its offence looked unstoppable down the
stretch.


Barbosa made 10-of-17 shots, including four-of-7 from the arc.


Stoudemire was 10-of-13 from the floor, Nash seven-of-11 and
Shawn Marion eight- of-10 for 20 points.


In all, Phoenix made 46-of-71 shots, including 12-of-21 three-
pointers.


The Suns realistically cannot catch the Mavericks for the NBA's
best record, trailing by six games with nine to play.


They were 2 1/2 games behind after their win last month.


But Phoenix did move 2 1/2 games ahead of San Antonio in the race
for the second-best record in the Western Conference, which would
provide home-court advantage in a possible conference semi-finals
matchup.

