

Police in Myanmar on Sunday arrested seven people during a rare
protest against economic hardship in this military-run country,
exactly two months after a similar rally provoked the junta's
ire.


At least 10 people gathered at a small Yangon market waving
banners demanding 24-hour electricity and cheaper commodity
prices, in violation of a junta ban on public gatherings.


Police broke up the rally and arrested seven people including
protest leader Htin Kyaw, 44, who had previously been detained
after leading a similar demonstration on February 22.


"Seven protesters were arrested this morning including the
previous protest leader Htin Kyaw. We cannot say whether they
will be charged," a police officer who wished to remain anonymous
told AFP.


The February protest was the first public show of dissent in a
decade against the repressive military regime which has ruled
Myanmar, formerly known as Burma, since 1962. About 20 protesters
were arrested and later released.


Win Naing, an independent politician, said two of those arrested
Sunday had been detained by the junta after the last protest.


"We don't know where they were taken. We cannot guess their
situation," Win Naing said.


Both protests demanded a better quality of life for people in
impoverished Myanmar, where soaring inflation has made basic
foods and commodities very expense, while power blackouts often
run for six hours at a time.


The ruling junta has long feared that the country's crumbling
economy, driven into the ground by decades of mismanagement and
hobbled by Western sanctions, could spark urban unrest.

