

A suicide bomber in police uniform blew himself up in
Afghanistan's eastern city of Khost Sunday, killing at least 10
people and wounding more than 40, a provincial official said.


The attacker, riding a motorcycle, detonated his explosives in a
busy meat market in the city, provincial deputy intelligence
director Mira Jan told AFP.


At least 10 people were killed, most of them civilians,
provincial public health director Gul Mohammad Mohammadi said.
More than 40 were wounded, four of whom were in a coma, he said.


Security officials in the city had been on the lookout for an
attacker since Saturday, Jan said, adding that at least three of
the dead were shopkeepers.


Hours before Sunday's blast, a bomb hidden in a camera exploded
in a shop in a central market, killing one man and wounding
seven, officials said.


Mohammadi said the wounded had said the attack was linked to a
private argument, not the raging Taliban insurgency, and had
followed a fight between two rival groups late Saturday.


Khost city, near the border with Pakistan, has in recent months
been hard-hit by violence linked to the insurgency as the Taliban
have stepped up the use of Iraq-style suicide bombings and
ambushes.


On April 14 a suicide bomber blew himself up at the gate of the
border police headquarters in the city, killing four police
officers, three policemen and a civilian.


There have been more than 30 suicide blasts around Afghanistan
this year which have killed more than 60 people, most of them
civilians although many of the blasts were directed at military
targets.


On Saturday the insurgents vowed a new round of attacks against
Afghan and foreign troops, promising to focus more attention on
the relatively peaceful north.

