

Twelve million Syrians began voting on Sunday in the first of two
days of parliamentary elections that banned opposition parties
said they will boycott.


The elections are the second since President Bashar al-Assad came
to power in July 2000.


Voting began at 7:00 am (0400 GMT) and will end at 8:00 pm (1700
GMT). On Monday the polling stations will open at 7:00 am and
close at 2:00 pm (1100 GMT).


Some 2,500 candidates are standing, the official SANA news agency
said on Saturday. Originally it said there were 9,000, and did
not explain the discrepancy.


Of the 250 seats, 167 are reserved for the ruling National
Progressive Front (NPF) coalition, led by Assad's Baath party.
The party itself is guaranteed 131 seats, or 52 percent of the
total.


The other 83 seats are allocated to so-called independent
candidates "close to the authorities," according to lawyer Hassan
Abdel-Azim, spokesman for six banned parties operating under the
umbrella National Democratic Rally (NDR).


Opposition hopes of increased democracy were raised, falsely, by
the accession to power of Bashar al-Assad in 2000 on the death of
his father Hafez, who had ruled with an iron fist.


Late in 2005 opposition parties which are tolerated but have no
legal status launched an appeal for "democratic change" in Syria,
but the plea failed to bring positive action.


The following May, the authorities jailed 10 opposition figures
who had signed a statement seeking reform in the country's
relations with Lebanon, where Syria was the power-broker for
nearly three decades.


Damascus has been subject to intense international pressure since
the murder of former Lebanese prime minister Rafiq Hariri in
February 2005 in Beirut, for which Syria was widely accused
despite its denials.


Among other demands, the opposition wants a modern law
authorising the creation of parties other than the Baath and its
allies, and abrogation of the state of emergency which has been
in force since 1963.


After the poll, a referendum is planned on a new mandate for
Assad. He received 97.29 percent of votes in a plebiscite after
the death of his father.

