

Israel's finance minister on Sunday took a three-month leave of
absence amid a police probe into corruption in a labour union he
once headed, Prime Minister Ehud Olmert said.


"A short while ago Finance Minister Avraham Hirshson called me
and told me that he requests to suspend himself temporarily from
his office... in view of the ongoing investigation carried out
against him," Olmert told the weekly cabinet meeting.


Olmert said that he had granted the request and that he would
serve as acting finance minister during Hirshson's leave, which
the minister's lawyer had earlier told army radio would last
three months.


The premier sought to give the assurance that the leave of
Hirshson -- the latest top Israeli politician to be embroiled in
a graft scandal -- would have little effect on the economy.


"We will continue to carry out all of our programmes as planned,"
he said. "The economy is currently on the rise and we are
interested in using the fruit of this rise to strengthen the
weaker part of society," he said.


Hirshson, of Olmert's centrist Kadima party, has been grilled by
police four times over the past several weeks over suspicions of
involvement in aggravated robbery and fraud, embezzlement,
obstruction of justice and conspiring to commit a crime.


Hirshson has denied the allegations.


In January, police confirmed media reports that a graft probe had
been launched against Hirshson, the latest in a string of Israeli
officials to face corruption charges.


The allegations are part of an investigation into embezzlement of
millions of dollars from the right-wing National Workers
Federation labour body.


Corruption probes and other scandals involving senior Israeli
officials have rocked the Jewish state in the past six months.


Among them have been several graft probes against Olmert and a
looming rape indictment against president Moshe Katsav, who has
since also taken a leave of absence from the largely ceremonial
post.

