

Japan and the United States will lead a five-nation project to
develop a coal- fired power plant which discharges no carbon
dioxide into the air, a press report said Sunday.


The five nations, including China, India and South Korea, are
expected to sign a deal this year on technological cooperation
for the project, the leading business daily Nikkei said quoting
Japanese government sources.


The new plant will cut carbon dioxide emissions by some 20
percent from the level of conventional models by gasifying coal
with oxygen before burning it.


Then the carbon dioxide generated at the plant will be liquefied
and locked in an underground storage facility, the report said.


At their meeting next Friday, Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
and US President George W. Bush are expected to reaffirm
cooperation in combating global warming, it said.


The paper said that Tokyo aims to strengthen its alliance with
Washington in the development of technology to control carbon
dioxide emissions amid intensifying competition with Europe.


A pilot plant, with a relatively small capacity of about 280,000
kilowatts, will be built in the United States, with each of the
four other countries contributing at least 10 million dollars to
the project, the Nikkei said.


Most of the cost, estimated to top one billion dollars, will be
borne by the United States, with Japan and other participants
supplying technology.


The costs of building and operating the new power plant will
initially be twice as much as a conventional coal power station.
But the costs will be reduced to make the project profitable by
the 2020s, it said.

