

Three-time major winner Ernie Els came to China hoping for a
confidence boost following his Masters flop but finished the BMW
Asian Open here on Sunday frustrated and concerned about his
putting.


The world number five shot an even-par 72 in the final round to
finish the tournament tied for fifth at six-under, four shots
adrift of champion Raphael Jacquelin from France.


Els complained throughout the tournament of a cold putter and
said again Sunday that his poor form on the greens had cost him
any chance of victory.


"I hit the ball from tee to green pretty well but my putter let
me down most of the week," the smooth-swinging South African
said.


Els was aiming to make an early charge on the final day to put
some pressure on Jacquelin.


"I needed to be two or three under through the first six holes
but, like I said, I hit the ball good enough but couldn't quite
make the putts."


The Shanghai tournament was his second since his debacle at the
Masters, where he failed to make the cut for the first time since
1995.


"I feel disappointed about missing the cut... I haven't done that
for quite a while. But you know, it happened and you have got to
move on from that," Els said when he arrived in China.


He said then that he was hoping a good performance here would
help to build a platform for success at the next major, the US
Open in June.


Asked on Sunday whether he had achieved that goal, Els said: "I
have to work on a couple of things. I just have to start getting
the putts in the hole. There's quite a stretch to the US Open but
every week counts."

