

Italy's nascent Democratic Party, which will consolidate the
centre-left and become the country's biggest political force, is
Prime Minister Romano Prodi's dream come true after a 12-year
"marathon".


"The debate was tough, difficult, at times bitter," Prodi said in
an open letter to the daily La Repubblica published Sunday. "But
in a marathon ... what counts is arriving at the finish line, and
above all, winning. Today we have come to the final kilometer."


The Democratic Party (PD) will be born of a merger between the
left's two largest formations, the former communist Democrats of
the Left (DS) and the Daisy party, a centrist Roman Catholic
force.


At simultaneous party congresses at the weekend, delegates
approved the merger plan, with a constituent assembly to be held
in October.


The PD is billed as both a forward-looking strategy for the
centre-left and a cure for Italy's chronic political instability.


The merger would create a party larger than former prime minister
Silvio Berlusconi's Forza Italia.


However, the far left flank of the DS, led by Higher Education
Minister Fabio Mussi, rejected the plan and vowed to form their
own party.


At local assemblies across the country ahead of the DS congress,
Mussi's motion won 15 percent support from the some 255,000
delegates who voted, while 75 percent backed Fassino's merger
initiative.


"You have chosen nostalgia," Fassino said of the Mussi faction.


The centre-left's razor-thin victory in last year's elections
depended on the splintered remainder of the coalition, made up of
communists, Greens, libertarians and others. The far left has a
deep independent streak that briefly brought down the Prodi
government in February.


The 67-year-old prime minister, a marathon runner himself, also
reaffirmed that he would step down in 2011 at the end of his
term, when he will have considered his "mission accomplished" and
give way to the next generation.

