

Taiwan's environmental activists on Sunday condemned President
Chen Shui-bian after he revived plans to build a highway that
they say will destroy a rare piece of unspoilt land.


Chen said that while environmental protection should have
priority over development, the highway linking the coastal town
of Suao and the city of Hualien should be given a chance.


Chen said construction of the proposed freeway "has been
established government policy ... and the common aspirations of
Hualien people."


"We were shocked and angry at what the president said," said Ho
Tsung-hsun of the Taiwan Environmental Protection Union.


The conservationists on Saturday voted against the project on the
grounds that it could bring environmental disaster to Taiwan.


"His remarks run against his previous pledge to build Taiwan into
a green island when he was first elected in 2000," Ho said.


Ho said the conservation groups would take action to block the
project as "it will ruin Taiwan's last clean piece of land,"
which houses the island's sole world-class sightseeing spot --
Taroko Gorge.


The highway project conditionally passed an 2000 environmental
impact study and obtained construction approval in 2002, but has
since been shelved due to pressure from conservationists, and
religious and tourism leaders.


Opponents warn that the proposed 86 kilometre-long (52 mile)
freeway would cut across a fragile mountainous area in eastern
Taiwan and seriously damage the environment.


However, its proponents say any damage could be reduced by using
advanced construction methods and that the freeway would cut the
journey time between Taipei and Hualien to two hours, down from
three and a half hours.

