

Brazilians Bare and Sidiclei helped Gamba Osaka move to the top
of the table for the first time this season with a 5-2 thrashing
of Jubilo Iwata in J-League football on Sunday.


Bare's shot in the fourth minute failed to find the net, but he
nodded home a seven-metre shot three minutes later.


Sidiclei then fired home a shot from close range in the 14th
minute before Bare added another header in the 23rd minute.


Shinji Murai pulled two back for Nagoya, but it was too late as
Hideo Hashimoto and Takahiro Futagawa again stretched the lead in
the 80th and 86th minutes.


"I think we played the way we have to play today. We couldn't win
our previous game and I wanted to adjust the team, but it was
difficult because we have some injured players," said Osaka coach
Akira Nishino.


"We scored two goals towards the end of the game, but I want to
reduce the goals against us this season. That is what we are
going to work on later," he added.


Osaka have five wins, one draw and one defeat for 16 points, one
point above Nagoya Grampus Eight and two points above Kawasaki
Frontale and Urawa Red Diamonds. Kashiwa Reysol trail them with
13 points.


In the only other match on Sunday, Yokohama Marinos whitewashed
Oita Trinita 5-0.


Nagoya briefly took the lead in the standings on Saturday after
beating Vissel Kobe 2-0, while Kawasaki defeated Urawa 2-1.


FC Tokyo and JEF United Chiba were 1-0 winners over Yokohama FC
and Omiya Ardija, respectively, while Ventforet Kofu came back
from a goal down twice to beat Kashiwa Reysol 3-2.


Former Italian Seria A Messina striker Atsushi Yanagisawa scored
two goals to give Kashima Antlers a 2-0 win over Shimizu S-Pulse,
and Sanfrecce Hiroshima were held to a goalless draw by Albirex
Niigata.

