

Eight miners were feared dead Sunday in a China mine explosion,
the latest in a series of mishaps that have left up to 80 miners
dead or missing over the last week.


The most recent mishap occurred in Yongxing county in Hunan
province early Saturday morning when a gas explosion ripped
through the mine with at least 11 miners in the pit, Xinhua news
agency said.


The mine had been operating illegally and had recently been
ordered closed due to safety concerns several times, the report
said.


Following the explosion, the mine owner fled the scene and did
not report the blast.


After rescuers found three miners alive, two more explosions
ripped through the pit, leaving little chance of survival for the
other miners, it said.


The latest accident came after eight missing miners in a
collapsed mine shaft in southwestern Chongqing were found alive
after being trapped underground for over 41 hours, the State
Administration of Work Safety said.


Three other miners were found alive Saturday at the bottom of a
flooded mine in central Hunan province, in an accident that had
already taken the lives of five others and left four missing, the
administration said.


In all, at least 80 miners were dead or missing in a series of
disaster since the start of last week.


China's coal mines are regarded as the most dangerous in the
world, with more than 4,700 workers killed last year, according
to official figures. Independent labour groups put the death toll
at up to 20,000 annually.

