

Serena and Venus Williams each won in straight sets here Saturday
to give the United States a 2-0 lead over depleted Belgium in
their Fed Cup first round tie.


Five-time Grand Slam champion Venus Williams opened with a 7-5,
6-2 triumph over Kirsten Flipkens while reigning Australian Open
champion Serena Williams, a seven-time Grand Slam winner,
defeated Caroline Maes 6-1, 6-4.


The triumphs put the US on the brink of advancing to July's semi-
final tie against either Russia or Spain.


Belgium, playing without either world No. 1 Justine Henin or No.
4 Kim Clijsters, would need an unlikely sweep of Sunday's reverse
singles matches as well as a doubles triumph to advance.


Venus Williams needed only 69 minutes to post a victory. She hit
34 of 56 first serves and lost only seven points when connecting
on her first serve.


However, she did trail 5-3 in the first set before winning four
straight games.


As the American stepped up the attack, Flipkens crumbled, double
faulting on two key points.


"It was very windy and I rushed a few shots in that first set,"
said Venus, who double-faulted herself three times in the set.
"There were a few serves there where at the last minute the wind
takes the ball."


She won the last five games of the second set, and said she felt
it was important to close it out convincingly before Flipkens had
time to get comfortable.


"She had nothing to lose because she wasn't supposed to win the
match," Venus said. "She can catch fire and play a great match. I
knew all those things could happen.


"But in the second set I just moved my feet better and played
better."


"I think I played a good match," Flipkens said. "I'm really happy
about the way I played."


Serena Williams took 65 minutes in her victory, never allowing
Maes a break point. While connecting on only 24 of 50 first
serves, the younger Williams sister won 19-of-24 first serve
points, 26-of-29 second-serve points and fired five aces against
only three double faults.

