

A struggling tribe in rural Malaysia has set up blockades in a
desperate attempt to protect its ancestral land on Borneo from
logging.


The Penan tribe in Sarawak state have used tree branches and
wooden poles to buld the blockades in what they say is a bid to
save forests from being completely wiped out.


"If we do not defend our rights today, after logging ends our
forests will be set to be destroyed by plantation schemes," the
chairman of the Sarawak Penan Association, Ajang Kiew, said in a
statement.


Ajang said Sarawak had failed to recognise Penans' native
customary rights over the land in issuing logging licenses, and
that communities were pressured by companies to agree to
unfavourable logging contracts.


He said sources of both food and income such as fruit trees had
been lost in some areas where the blockades had been built.


Originally a nomadic tribe, the Penan people are among Malaysia's
poorest communities and number just 12,000 out of Sarawak's two
million people. Around 500 still live as hunter-gatherers.


The Penan captured the world's attention in the late 1980s and
early 1990s when Swiss environmentalist Bruno Manser championed
their cause.


But environmentalists say despite the campaigning, there has been
no advancement in recognising the rights of Penans.


"For many years, people have been protesting now and then and
making demands for the government to recognise their native
rights," said Jok Jau Evong of Friends of the Earth Sarawak,
which has been assisting the Penan.


"Since then and until now, no action has been taken," he told
AFP.

