

It wasn't exactly the streets of the West End, and the car came
out an unexpected colour -- but London's famous black cab broke
new ground Sunday with its debut appearance in China.


The famous cabs, which have plied the streets of the British
capital since 1948, took a bow at the auto show in Shanghai,
where a new joint venture is aiming to produce 20,000 of the
vehicles every year.


A gold-painted version of the London icon was put on display to
promote the new venture between Chinese carmaker Geely and
Britain's Manganese Bronze Holdings, original maker of the iconic
car.


"We believe the joint venture can create significant value for
shareholders of both sides and we look forward to a promising
export prospect," Li Shufu, the chairman of Chinese automaker
Geely, told Xinhua news agency.


Geely plans to formally produce models of the cab from 2008 in a
new facility adjacent to its automobile production base in
Shanghai.


The agreement signed last year gives Manganese its first
manufacturing base overseas and access to the rapidly expanding
Chinese car market, while providing cheaper components from China
for production in Britain.


The high cost of the taxis, that retain much of their original
1948 design, has hindered serious the company's overseas growth.


The Chinese-made models will only cost between 150,000 and
200,000 yuan (19,400 to 25,900 dollars) or about half of the
price in Britain, according to Geely. They are mainly for export
but Geely hopes to sell some in China.

