

Japan went to the polls Sunday in two upper-house by-elections
and a chain of local elections that could further weaken the
leadership of embattled Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.


The poll results will set the tone for July's national elections,
in which Abe's ruling coalition defends its slim majority in the
House of Councillors, the upper chamber of parliament.


Voters were electing senators in rural Fukushima and Okinawa as
well as mayors and assembly members in most of Japan's 47
prefectures, including Nagasaki, where the son-in-law of slain
mayor Iccho Ito ran in his place.


Ito, 61, an avid anti-nuclear campaigner in Nagasaki, died last
Wednesday after he was shot by a gangster. He was campaigning for
re-election.


The motive of the assassin, Tetsuya Shiroo, linked to Japan's
biggest underworld syndicate, Yamaguchi-gumi, remains unclear but
the crime is widely seen as a personal grudge.


Vote counting was to start after the polling stations closed at
8:00 pm (1100 GMT).


The two upper-house seats were vacated by members of the main
opposition Democratic Party of Japan (DPJ) when they opted to run
in gubernatorial elections.


Polls showed a candidate backed by the DPJ and other opposition
parties was leading in Fukushima but another in Okinawa was
battling neck-and-neck with a rival on the ruling coalition
ticket.


The ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) relies on the help of
its smaller coalition partner, the Buddhist-backed New Komeito,
for the coalition's current 133-majority in the 242-member upper
house.


Half of the chamber will be contested in July and the LDP and the
Komeito would need to win 65 seats to maintain a majority if they
lost in both by-elections.


The LDP won 49 seats and the New Komeito 13 in the last election,
three years ago.


"Demands for a government shake-up may be refuelled" if the LDP-
led coalition loses in both Fukushima and Okinawa, the
influential daily Asahi said.

