

Australian officials on Sunday suspended their search for three
men missing from a ghost yacht found drifting off the northeast
coast, amid reports the trio had sailed into a fierce storm.


The catamaran was found on Friday near the Great Barrier Reef,
with engines running and a table laid for a meal but no one
aboard.


Officials said they were baffled by the fate of the crew but
Sunday called off the search, admitting that the chances of
finding them alive had faded.


"Unless information comes in, in terms of sightings or something
like that, the search has been suspended," a police spokeswoman
said.


The head of the rescue operation, Phil Dowler, said it was
unlikely that the men were still alive.


"Unfortunately up to now it's supposedly a week since they've
gone missing -- it's quite difficult to survive without adequate
food or water," he told state radio.


According to a report in The Sun-Herald, police believe skipper
Derek Batten, 56, Peter Tunstead, 69, and his brother James
Tunstead, 63, may have been swept overboard during a storm last
Sunday.


"Initial investigations indicate that some time that day (Sunday)
the vessel may have been tracking in a direction towards an area
where some high-wind squalls and rough seas were building,"
police official Roy Wall told the paper.


"We really don't know for sure and it's probably dangerous to
speculate, but obviously they've become separated from their
vessel."


Forensic experts who searched the "Kaz II" yacht after it was
towed into Townsville on Saturday confirmed that it had a badly
torn sail but found nothing else to indicate what happened to the
men.


Relatives of the sailors said they would continue to hope their
loved ones were alive.


"I'll do whatever it takes to find them," James Tunstead's son
Shane told the Sunday Mail.

