

A chartered plane from Saudi Arabia has arrived in Bangladesh and
is believed to be on standby to take former prime minister
Khaleda Zia into exile, sources told AFP.


At least 200 journalists were camped at Dhaka's main
international airport from late Saturday after rumours swept the
city that Zia's exit from Bangladeshi politics was imminent.


It was not known when the plane was due to leave or if the two-
time prime minister might demand to travel by a scheduled flight.


The emergency-ruled country's new government is attempting to
exile both Zia, whose Bangladesh Nationalist Party (BNP) led a
coalition government until last October, and Sheikh Hasina Wajed,
leader of the former main opposition Awami League.


Zia had been expected to leave earlier. The reason for the delay
was not known although it has been reported that she has been
pushing the government to allow her elder son Tareque Rahman to
leave with her.


Rahman is currently in jail facing corruption charges along with
a string of prominent figures from both parties as part of the
government's anti-graft drive.


The leaders of the country's two main parties are being forced
out as part of the military-backed government's campaign to clean
up Bangladesh's corruption- ridden political system before
holding new elections before the end of 2008.


Zia is reported to have agreed to go into exile in return for
leniency for her two sons. Her younger son Arafat Rahman was
briefly arrested last week.


It was unclear if Sheikh Hasina would succeed in boarding a
Dhaka-bound plane at London's Heathrow airport later Sunday.


The government has barred Sheikh Hasina from returning from
holiday and has informed all airlines operating flights to the
south Asian country.


In her absence, murder and extortion charges filed were also
against her.


Both Zia and Sheikh Hasina stand accused of misrule that led to
the political crisis earlier this year.

