

Malaysia's long-haul budget carrier AirAsia X has selected Airbus
over Boeing for 15 new passenger aircraft, an executive familiar
with the deal said on Sunday.


"AirAsia X decided to pick the A330-300 because Airbus came with
a better commercial deal and the delivery of the aircraft will be
faster," he told AFP on condition of anonymity. He said the
official announcement would come Monday.


Losing out on the bid was Boeing and its 777-200, he said.


AirAsia X was unveiled in January by low-cost aviation pioneer
Tony Fernandes, who launched AirAsia as a regional budget carrier
more than five years ago.


The new carrier will be operated by Fly Asian Express (FAX),
which currently operates rural air services on Borneo island. It
expects to carry half a million passengers in its first year of
operation.


AirAsia X's take-off has been delayed, possibly until September
2008, as delays in Airbus's new A380 super-jumbo have disrupted
the aircraft leasing market.


At its launch in January, the carrier promised flights to Britain
beginning this July but Raja Mohamad Azmi, FAX's chief executive
officer, said last month that the service had been put back.


"We remain committed to begin the long-haul service. The new
take-off date is by September 2008 when we begin to receive
delivery of our new aircraft," said Azmi.


AirAsia X initially aimed to begin service with three leased
aircraft, either the A330-300 from European manufacturer Airbus
or the 777-200 made by US giant Boeing.


Fernandes had said in January that the long-haul airline was
expected to carry half a million passengers in its first year of
operation to initial destinations including Britain and China.


AirAsia was launched as a budget carrier in December 2001 with
just two aircraft but now offers more than 100 domestic and
international flights, including to Thailand, Indonesia,
Singapore, Cambodia, Vietnam and the Philippines.

