

Iran on Sunday rejected Western calls for a suspension of its
sensitive nuclear activities just days ahead of crucial talks on
its atomic drive with EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana.


"Halting uranium enrichment is definitely deleted from the
literature of Iran's nuclear activities," foreign ministry
spokesman Mohammad Ali Hosseini told reporters.


"In our negotiations the halting of this activity has not been on
the table and going back on time is not envisaged," he added.


The European Union and United States want Iran to freeze
enrichment as the process can be used both to make nuclear fuel
and atomic weapons. Iran insists its nuclear programme is solely
aimed at generating energy.


The comments come ahead of eagerly awaited talks on Wednesday at
a location that has yet to be confirmed between Solana and Iran's
top nuclear negotiator Ali Larijani, in a bid to break the
deadlock in the nuclear standoff.


The pair, who held several rounds of talks last year which failed
to find a solution to the crisis, last met face-to-face for
informal talks on the sidelines of the Munich security conference
on February 11.


It remains to be seen what result can come out of the new
meeting, given Iran's insistence that it enriches uranium and the
EU position that Tehran must freeze the process before full
negotiations can begin.


"Negotiations which start with good intentions will have positive
effects and will lead to consequences which are satisfactory for
both sides," Hosseini said, without elaborating.


"What is most important in this is to confirm and guarantee
Iran's right to use nuclear technology for peaceful purposes
based on international laws," he added.


The UN Security Council has already imposed two sets of sanctions
against Iran for refusing to halt sensitive atomic activities and
has threatened to take further punitive action if Tehran's
defiance continues.

