

Two bomb blasts killed 11 people in Afghanistan's eastern city of
Khost Sunday, while five rebels and a policeman died in a battle
elsewhere, officials said.


The deadliest explosion was caused by a suicide bomber, wearing
police uniform and riding a motorcycle, who detonated his
explosives in a busy meat market in Khost, provincial deputy
intelligence director Mira Jan told AFP.


At least 10 people were killed, most of them civilians,
provincial public health director Gul Mohammad Mohammadi said.
More than 40 were wounded, four of whom were in a coma, he said.


Police immediately sealed off the crowded area, said an AFP
reporter behind the cordon. Ambulances and police vehicles
carried away bodies.


Security officials had been on the lookout for an attacker since
Saturday, Jan said. At least three of the dead were shopkeepers,
he said.


Hours before the suicide attack, a bomb in a camera exploded in a
shop in a central market in the city, killing one man and
wounding seven, officials said.


Mohammadi, the Khost health director, said the wounded had said
the blast was linked to a private argument, not the raging
Taliban insurgency, and had followed a fight between two rival
groups late Saturday.


Police said the cause of the blast was being investigated.


Khost, near the border with Pakistan, has recently been hard-hit
by violence linked to the insurgency as the Taliban have stepped
up the use of Iraq-style suicide bombings and ambushes.


In the neighbouring province of Paktia meanwhile, a mob of
Taliban fighters ambushed a police patrol early Sunday, kicking
off a three-hour battle, a government spokesman said.


"Five enemies were killed and their bodies were left at the
battlefield," Din Mohammad Darwaish said. "One policeman was also
martyred and another was wounded."


Seven rockets were also fired at a US-led military base, Camp
Salerno, north of Khost city overnight. There were no casualties
reported.

