

Tracy McGrady came alive just in time to help Yao Ming lead the
Houston Rockets to an 84-75 victory over Utah in their National
Basketball Association playoff series opener.


Yao had 28 points and 13 rebounds, and McGrady scored 22 of his
23 points in the second half as the Rockets took the lead in the
best-of-seven Western Conference first-round series.


The 13 rebounds were a playoff-best for Yao, whose previous high
was 11 in 2004 against the Los Angeles Lakers.


Rafer Alston collected nine points, 11 rebounds and eight assists
for Houston, which overcame a lackluster 39-percent shooting
effort.


The Rockets trailed 42-33 at halftime, largely because of the
lack of offensive production by McGrady.


The Jazz held him to just one point on 0-for-6 shooting - a
career postseason first-half low.


However, McGrady regained his All-Star form in the third period,
scoring 16 points - highlighted by a deep pull-up jumper from the
top of the key with 10 seconds left to cap an 18-4 burst and help
Houston take a 59-53 lead into the decisive quarter.


"Just being aggressive," McGrady said of the difference in his
game after the interval. "I had a rough first half shooting the
ball... I just wanted to come out in the second half and attack
right away.


"I was fortunate enough to have a couple of jumpers fall for me
in the third quarter, and I just got on a roll."


The Rockets, who missed the playoffs last year, are trying to
make it out of the first round for the first time in a decade.


In addition, McGrady is trying to get past his personal painful
playoff history. The 10-year NBA veteran has lost five first-
round series with three teams - Toronto (2000), Orlando (2001-03)
and Houston (2005).


Utah pulled within 65-63 on Matt Harpring's driving layup at the
8:27 mark.  But the Rockets pulled away for good as Alston and
Luther Head hit back-to-back 3-pointers, sparking an impressive
15-3 surge to push the lead to 80-66 with 3:33 remaining.


Two quick 3-pointers by Derek Fisher helped Utah cut the deficit
to 80-74 with 32 seconds left, but McGrady split a pair of free
throws to seal the victory.


McGrady said another key to Houston's rally was their second-half
defense.


"They had the pick and roll rolling and we couldn't stop them in
the first half," he said. "We made some adjustments at halftime,
we shut their go-to play down, we executed on offense.


"We matched their intensity, because they came out firing."


All-Star Carlos Boozer struggled with just 11 points but did pull
down 12 rebounds for the Jazz, who fell to 13-14 all-time in the
postseason against the Rockets.


Utah second-year guard Deron Williams, in his first playoff game,
had 15 points, nine rebounds and nine assists.

