

Political and rights groups cried foul on Monday over this
weekend's ending of voter registration for July elections that
will be a crucial test of Sierra Leone's post-war democratic
credentials.


Electoral commission chief Christiana Thorpe said at least 72
percent of the targeted 2.7 million potential voters had been
registered by the end of the three-week-long exercise.


"I think we have made it. This is the first time we have gone to
such a high rate of registration for elections in Sierra Leone,"
she told a news conference on Monday, adding that any extension
of the exercise was unnecessary.


But politicians and civil society groups claimed many people
could not be listed due to logistical problems, saying some
villagers had to walk around 10 kilometres (6.2 miles) to get to
their nearest registration centre.


"An extension of registration would have done a world of good,"
Henry Yamsanneh, a spokesman for an opposition coalition, told
AFP.


The secretary general of the ruling Sierra Leone People's Party,
Joseph Siaffa, said "an extension would have benefited all of
us".


"A good number of the electorate may have been disenfranchised
because of the locations of some of the registration centres and
poor logistics," said the Civil Society Movement of Sierra Leone,
which comprises about 150 bodies.


The small west African country is due to hold presidential and
legislative polls on July 28, which are will establish whether it
is on the road to full recovery after a 10-year brutal civil war.


Electoral commission officials say it would cost the government
more than 330,000 US dollars (248,000 euros) to prolong the
registration period, which has been partly paid for by foreign
donations.

