

France sees no need to rush to develop an anti-missile shield to
protect European people from attack, a senior French defence
official said Monday.


"France takes the missile threat seriously, but at the moment it
is more about protecting troops than territories or populations,"
said Robert Ranquet, deputy head of strategic affairs at the
French defence ministry.


He said France was playing an active role in NATO's theatre
missile defence system, which would be deployed to protect troops
in the field from attack.


"For a mid-sized country like France, there are ideas that it can
put forward and others that it cannot," he said, at an missile
defence conference at NATO headquarters in Brussels.


He said missile shields, like the one the United States says it
is developing to counter attacks from "rogue states" like Iran,
are expensive and that their "efficiency is doubtful".


"We will continue to use our nuclear arsenal as the ultimate
dissuasion," he added.


Since January, the United States has been negotiating to build 10
interceptors in Poland to knock down missiles mid-flight at
extremely high altitudes.


The interceptors, which would not have an explosive war-head,
would home in on information provided by a tracking station in
the Czech Republic, as well as a forward operating radar at an
undisclosed location in the Caucasus.


Last year NATO completed a feasibility study which concluded that
Europe does face the threat of missile attack and that it is
technically possible to build a defence system, but no action has
been taken on it.

