

Britain's biggest commercial broadcaster ITV on Monday revealed
what it alleged were the names of all 16 marines who were present
when television reporter Terry Lloyd was shot dead during the
invasion of Iraq in 2003.


The broadcaster listed the names of the marines, reportedly
members of Red Platoon, Delta Company, one by one, saying that
one of the marines "almost certainly" fired the shot that killed
Lloyd.


A coroner ruled in October that Lloyd, a correspondent for ITN
News, was unlawfully killed by US forces in southern Iraq in 2003
and said he would try to ensure that those responsible are
prosecuted.


Lloyd was killed, along with Lebanese interpreter Hussein Osman
and French cameraman Fred Nerac, near the Shatt al-Basra Bridge
outside Basra, Iraq's second city, on March 22, 2003, two days
after the invasion was launched.


Oxfordshire Assistant Deputy Coroner Andrew Walker said the 50
-year-old Lloyd was shot in the back after getting caught up in
US and Iraqi crossfire, then shot in the head by US forces as he
was taken away in a minibus for medical treatment.


During the inquest, the US troops involved were never publicly
identified, and were not present to give evidence.


The lawyer for Lloyd's family welcomed ITV's decision to name the
marines, and urged them to come forward with additional
information.


"Clearly the fact that they have been named means that really the
scrutiny is on them," said Louis Charalambous.


"We urge them to come forward to talk to us or talk to the
authorities."


ITN News also launched a campaign on Monday for an amendment to
the 1998 Rome Statute to include a particular international crime
of the willful killing of a journalist as a war crime.

