

Four years on from the US-led war on Iraq, US President George W.
Bush warned a troop pullout now would be "devastating" as the
country battled on against a raging insurgency and sectarian
conflict.


Iraq marks the anniversary of the invasion on Tuesday with signs
of growing bitterness against American troops and a new act of
recrimination against Saddam Hussein's toppled regime.


In the four years since the launch of the "shock and awe"
military campaign just before dawn on March 20, 2003, Iraq has
descended into a sectarian hell that has left tens of thousands
of civilians dead.


On Monday alone, at least 55 people were killed or found murdered
in Iraq in car bombings and shootings.


Bush, facing growing anti-war protests, pleaded for patience on
Monday with his unpopular Iraq strategy and Washington's revamped
efforts to restore order particularly in the violence-plagued
capital Baghdad.


"The Baghdad security plan is still in its early stages and
success will take months, not days or weeks," the embattled
president said.


"It could be tempting to look at the challenges in Iraq and
conclude our best option is to pack up and go home. That may be
satisfying in the short run, but I believe the consequences for
American security would be devastating."


At 5:35 am four years ago on Tuesday, Tomahawk missiles and
precision-guided bombs rained down on Baghdad targets as Saddam
vowed it would be "Iraq's last battle against the tyrannous
villains."


But on April 9, the Iraqi strongman's statue in a central square
was torn down with a rope around the neck, in a premonition of
his own hanging last December 30 after his conviction for crimes
against humanity.


His vice president, Taha Yassin Ramadan, was set to follow him to
the gallows on on Tuesday's anniversary, a lawyer from Saddam's
defence team said.


"He was very calm and composed. He asked his family and friends
to pray for him and said that he was not afraid of death," said
lawyer Badie Aref.


Ramadan will be the third aide of Saddam to be hanged for his
role in the killings of 148 people from the Shiite village of
Dujail after an attempt on the former dictator's life there in
1982.


Despite Bush's warnings, a new poll showed US public opinion on
Iraq had soured further, with just 32 percent of Americans saying
they favoured the war, compared to 72 percent on the eve of
conflict four years ago.


And despite recent claims by the Bush administration that the
month-old US troop surge in Baghdad was beginning to work,
another poll by Western media organisations told a story of deep
Iraqi pessimism.


Only 18 percent of Iraqis had confidence in US and coalition
troops, while 78 percent opposed their presence, 69 percent said
their presence made security worse and 51 percent said attacks on
coalition forces were justified.


Protests have been staged across the United States and in several
European cities and Japan, against the war that was originally
based on a premise of eliminating weapons of mass destruction
that were never found.


Commanders are now pouring 25,000 reinforcements into Baghdad to
quell Sunni- Shiite fighting, the bloodiest element of the
conflict and one which even the Pentagon admits amounts to civil
war.


In western and northern Iraq, Al-Qaeda militants pursue their
brutal insurgency against the US-backed government, while in the
south and centre Shiite militias jostle for supremacy and control
of oil resources.


The launch of the joint US-Iraqi security plan in Baghdad has
driven some sectarian death squads from the streets, but car
bombs still explode every day, scattering bodies and bloodied
debris through crowded markets.


"There has been a steady decline in the Iraq situation since the
invasion. Things have gone from bad to worse," said Joost
Hiltermann, Middle East project director for the International
Crisis Group think tank.


The raw figures do not tell the whole story of a complex crisis,
but they make grim reading.


Since the conflict began, two million Iraqis have fled the
country and 1.8 million have been displaced within its borders,
according to figures compiled by the UN High Commissioner for
Refugees.


Estimates of Iraqi civilian casualties in the past four years
vary wildly, but the Iraq Body Count website's figure of 58,800
is among the more conservative. The Baghdad government said 1,440
people were killed in January alone.


At least 3,203 American, 132 British and 124 other foreign
soldiers have also died since the invasion.


Iraqi officials point to a constitution, endorsed by referendum,
and the creation of a national unity government by an elected
parliament -- with 25 percent of its members women -- as signs of
progress since the dictator's fall.


US commanders, with a wary eye on plummeting public and political
support for the war back home, also point to reconstruction and
economic development efforts as the great untold story of the
war.


Nevertheless, the violence and the corruption that has dogged
Iraq's post- invasion reconstruction have delayed much progress
in terms of utilities such as electricity supplies.


And a series of US security operations has so far failed to fill
the security vacuum caused by Washington's decision to disband
Iraq's Saddam-era armed forces which opened the field to Al-Qaeda
and Iranian-backed militia.

