

Tiger Woods is the most marketable athlete for North American
audiences and will be for the next five years, according to a
Sports Business Daily poll released here Monday.


Woods, who arrives at Augusta National Golf Club in two weeks
shooting for his 13th major title and fifth Masters crown, was a
runaway winner in a poll of 65 sport business and media
executives revealed on the newspaper's web site.


In ranking active athletes, 69.2 percent of replies named Woods
the top man with 55 percent predicting he will continue to hold
that role in 2012.


Woods' friend and fellow US sport icon, basketball legend Michael
Jordan, was named the top retired athlete marketing draw by 73.8
percent of responses.


Behind Woods in the active athlete pitchman category were Peyton
Manning, the quarterback of Super Bowl champion Indianapolis
Colts, in second place at 18.5 percent with basketball star
LeBron James third at 4.6 percent.


New York Yankees baseball star Derek Jeter was fourth followed by
Dwyane Wade of the NBA champion Miami Heat, stock car racer Dale
Earnhardt Jnr, American football quarterback Tom Brady and Wade's
teammate Shaquille O'Neal.


Russian tennis star Maria Sharapova was ninth and the only woman
on the list with hockey's Sidney Corsby, basketball's Kobe Bryant
and gridiron hero Brett Favre sharing 10th.


James and Wade were seen as the nearest challengers to Woods'
marketing reign in five years, but three or four times as many
expect Woods to remain on top.


Following Jordan on the list of retired pitchman heroes were
baseball's Cal Ripken Jnr, basketball's Charles Barkley, golfer
Jack Nicklaus, seven-time Tour de France winner Lance Armstrong
and boxing icon Muhammad Ali.

