

Saudi Arabia on Monday urged countries which can influence the
stalled Middle East peace process to recognise the new
Palestinian unity government, the SPA official news agency
reported.


"The (Saudi) cabinet stressed that countries that can influence
the Middle East peace process should bare their political and
moral responsibilities through recognising the Palestinian unity
government and allowing it to perform its role," SPA reported
quoting a cabinet statement.


Saudi Arabia, which brokered a February deal between fighting
Palestinian factions to reach a unity government, reiterated its
call for lifting the international community's boycott against
the Palestinian government.


The new government is the first to join the secular Fatah of
President Mahmud Abbas and the Islamist Hamas movement, and
followed weeks of wrangling and bloodshed as rival militants
clashed.


Palestinians hope that the cabinet will mean the lifting of a
Western aid boycott which has crippled their economy and caused
widespread poverty. The blockade was imposed after Hamas won an
overwhelming and surprise victory over the long-dominant Fatah in
democratic elections early last year.


Israel, its major ally the United States, and the European Union
continue to refuse to deal with Hamas unless it recognises Israel
and renounce violence, while the Islamist movement insists on the
right of resistance against Israeli occupation of Palestinian
lands.

