

Iran stopped UN inspectors from visiting an underground bunker
where it is building an industrial-scale plant to make enriched
uranium but the inspectors will try again, diplomats told AFP
Monday.


Iran had promised "frequent inspector access" to the site in
Natanz, the UN watchdog International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA)
reported in February.


The highly sensitive inspections, and talks over how they are to
take place, came as Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was
expected to plead Iran's case this week before the UN Security
Council, which is considering tightening sanctions on the Islamic
republic over fears that it seeks nuclear weapons.


A centre of concern is the uranium enrichment facility at Natanz,
in central Iran, where the Iranians are already operating above-
ground a pilot plant carrying out research levels of enrichment,
the process which makes what can be fuel for civilian nuclear
reactors but also the explosive core of atom bombs.


A diplomat said Iran had last Saturday refused to let IAEA
inspectors into the underground hall at Natanz where the Iranians
have set up hundreds of centrifuges in what is to be a
3,000-centrifuge facility for enriching uranium.


Centrifuges are the machines used to refine uranium for the U-235
isotope that is valuable for fuel or weapons.


Such a facility could make enough highly enriched uranium for an
atom bomb in about 10 months, according to the IISS think-tank in
London.


Other diplomats, all requesting anonymity due to the extreme
delicacy of the issue, said IAEA inspectors are set to return
this week, possibly Tuesday, to the plant and that delays in
inspections were normal and could just be a matter of schedule
changes or working out legal issues.


Blocking access definitively to Natanz would be a violation of
Iran's obligations under the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty
(NPT).


Iranian officials in Vienna were not immediately reachable for
comment.


IAEA chief Mohamed ElBaradei had reported on February 22 that the
agency wanted to put cameras in the centrifuge hall in accordance
with "safeguards measures that needed to be implemented . . .
prior to the introduction of nuclear material into the facility."


The report said that Iran was spinning centrifuges empty, without
uranium feedstock gas, in two 164-centrifuge production lines,
and was finishing installing two other similar cascades, also
totalling 328 centrifuges.


ElBaradei said the IAEA had "agreed to interim verification
arrangements" at Natanz's underground site "involving frequent
inspector access but not remote monitoring."


"Iran was informed that these arrangements (which are now in
place) would be valid only for as long as the number of machines
installed ... did not exceed 500, and that, once that number was
exceeded, all required safeguards measures would need to be
implemented," ElBaradei said.


The first diplomat said Iran did not want the IAEA to see "that
it now has more than 500 centrifuges functioning underground" and
that was the reason for the delay.


Tehran is defying the UN Security Council's calls for it to
suspend uranium enrichment. Iran insists its nuclear program is a
peaceful effort to generate electricity.


Iran warned on Monday that it would make a "proportionate"
response to any new UN sanctions.


Diplomats in Vienna speculated that cutting off access to Natanz
might be part of this response.


The 15-member Security Council is due to meet Wednesday to review
a draft sanctions resolution against Iran agreed last week by the
body's five permanent members -- Britain, China, France, Russia
and the United States -- plus Germany.


New sanctions would include barring Iran from exporting arms and
buying weapons such as missiles.


Iran would have 60 days to comply with repeated UN demands or
face "further appropriate measures" (economic sanctions but no
military action) under Article 41 of the UN Charter.

