

Microsoft founder Bill Gates pledged Monday to open Internet
community centers in Colombia where demobilized rebel and
paramilitary fighters can take correspondence courses.


Gates, speaking to reporters in the Caribbean coast city of
Cartagena after meeting with President Alvaro Uribe, said
Microsoft would help the violence-torn country's peace efforts
through training that aims to re-integrate former fighters into
civil society.


Asked how Microsoft would contribute, Gates said: "Some of these
community centers are being put in those areas (where demobilized
fighters live)."


Gates, however, said he would be unable to visit the areas.


"(The Colombian government) wanted me to go to those locations.
Unfortunately my schedule didn't offer the opportunity to go to
any of these locations," he said.


Gates met earlier with Uribe and cabinet members in the Guests'
House of the colonial city's Manzanillo Fort.


At the meeting, Gates agreed with the Education Ministry to
provide 15,000 new Windows operating systems for schools,
universities and libraries.


Colombia has fought leftist guerrillas since the 1960s, while
right-wing paramilitaries formed in the 1980s to fight against
the rebels.


The paramilitary group United Self Defense Forces of Colombia
(AUC) officially demobilized the last of its 30,000 fighters last
year as part of an agreement with Bogota in which its leaders
will serve prison terms of no more than eight years.


While the government has started talks with the 4,500-strong
National Liberation Army (ELN) aimed at starting peace
negotiations, Bogota remains at loggerheads with the
14,000-strong Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC).

