

A British rights activist accused of spying in Angola has been
allowed to travel home while the prosecution prepares its case,
sources said on Monday.


Sarah Wykes, a veteran activist for London-based Global Witness,
headed back to Britain on Sunday after a court ruled she could
leave Angola, said a source close to the case who refused to be
named.


She was arrested in February and freed after posting bail of
180,000 kwanzas (2,000 dollars, 1,500 euros), but needed the
court's permission to leave the country.


Law expert Francisco Lwemba said that prosecutors would now try
to find evidence to support the accusations against Wykes, adding
that if they failed, her case would be closed.


Wykes was arrested while preparing a report on oil reserves in
the northern Angolan region of Cabinda for Global Witness, which
campaigns against the corrupt exploitation of natural resources.


The enclave, a former Portuguese protectorate located between
Congo and the Democratic Republic of Congo, produces more than
half of all of Angola's oil. But locals say they have seen little
of the huge profits generated there.


Agostinho Chikaya, one of the leaders of Cabinda non-governmental
organisation Mpalabanda, or Resistance, was questioned about the
Wykes case on Monday.


"I was stopped and then politely questioned by the criminal
investigators about Miss Sarah (Wykes') visit," he told AFP after
being released.


"They mainly wanted to know if I was aware of Miss Sarah's visit.
Of course, I replied that I was aware of it."


Mpalabanda was officially dissolved by a court in Cabinda after
being accused of illegal political activity.


The NGO was an instigator of the Cabinda Forum for Dialogue
(FCD), which organised negotiations between the Angolan
government and factions of the separatist Liberation Front of the
Enclave of Cabinda (FLEC).


Annexed by Angola when the southern African country became
independent in 1975, Cabinda has been home to numerous separatist
movements.

