

Fast food giant McDonald's is set to begin a campaign to redefine
"McJob" entries in British dictionaries, which it believes are
both incorrect and insulting to its workers, the Financial Times
reported on Tuesday.


"We believe that it is out of date, out of touch with reality and
most importantly it is insulting to those talented, committed,
hard-working people who serve the public every day," wrote David
Fairhurst, the company's chief people officer in northern Europe,
the FT said.


Citing a copy of Fairhurst's letter to cultivate support for the
campaign, the business daily said McDonald's plans a "high-
profile public petition" to get the definition changed.


The Oxford English Dictionary (OED) describes a McJob as "an
unstimulating, low- paid job with few prospects, esp. one created
by the expansion of the service sector".


According to the FT, however, Caterer and Hotelkeeper magazine
recently named the restaurant chain the "best place to work in
hospitality", and McDonald's was also the first large British
employer to be accredited under the government's "Investors in
People" scheme.


As such, Fairhurst wrote that the definition of a McJob should be
changed to "reflect a job that is stimulating, rewarding and
offers genuine opportunities for career progression and skills
that last a lifetime."


A spokeswoman for the OED told the FT: "We monitor changes in the
language and reflect these in our definitions, according to the
evidence we find."

