

Monday's mining disaster in Siberia, was among the deadliest in
the countries of the former communist Eastern Bloc since the turn
of the century.


Following is a list of mining disasters in the region, ranked by
the numbers of dead:


- Ukraine, March 11, 2000: Eighty miners die in an underground
gas explosion at a coalmine in the eastern Lugansk region.
Officials say safety regulations were violated.


- Russia, March 19, 2007: At least 78 miners were killed when a
gas explosion ripped through a coal mine in Siberia.


- Ukraine, August 19, 2001: Fifty-five dead in a methane blast at
the privately- run Zasyadko coalmine in the eastern Donbass
region.


- Russia, April 10, 2004: Forty-seven coalminers die in a methane
blast and fire at the Taizhina pit in Siberia's Kuzbass region.


- Ukraine, July 7, 2002: Thirty-five die when an underground fire
breaks out in the Ukraina coalmine in the eastern Donetsk region.
Three weeks later another disaster kills 20 more Ukrainian
miners.


- Ukraine, July 19, 2004: At least 34 coalminers die deep
underground in a methane blast at the Krasnolimanskaya coalmine,
in the Donetsk region.


- Russia, September 7, 2006: Twenty-five miners die when fire
breaks out at a British-owned goldmine in the Chita region, near
the borders with China and Mongolia.


- Russia, February 9, 2005: At least 23 die in a methane
explosion at a coalmine in the Keremevo region of southern
Siberia; the same area where Monday's disaster occurred.


- Poland, 21 November, 2006: Twenty-three miners die in a methane
explosion at the Halemba coalmine in Poland's southern region of
Silesia.

