

A detained German truck driver is suspected of being behind at
least 19 murders over more than 30 years in Germany, France and
Spain, a European police agency said Monday.


The 48-year-old man, who was arrested in November, "is suspected
of having committed at least 19 murders between 1974, when the
suspect was 15-years-old, and 2006," the agency said, adding that
most of the victims were prostitutes.


The man was arrested by German authorities in Cologne, who
identified him only as Volker E., after he was recorded by a CCTV
camera from a private Spanish company while disposing of one of
his victims, according to Eurojust, the European justice
coordination agency.


When confronted with the evidence, the agency said the suspect
allegedly admitted to five murders in Spain and France as well as
his first in Germany, when he was 15 and the victim was 14 years
old.


The crimes took place in the Spanish regions of Barcelona and
Figueras, Plauen in Germany and Saintes and Reims in France,
Eurojust said, adding that other unsolved cases in Europe were
being investigated.


The prosecutor in the German city of Hof, the suspect's home
town, on Monday hailed Eurojust's decision to give the Germany
the authority to prosecute the alleged serial killer.


When the suspect was picked up, German police found hair,
clothing and photos of murdered prostitutes in Spain and in
France. The suspect allegedly strangled the women between 1999
and 2006 for sexual reasons.

