

South Africa is pushing to amend a draft resolution on new UN
sanctions against Iran, by proposing a 90-day freeze of Iran's
uranium enrichment in exchange for a simultaneous suspension of
UN sanctions, according to amendments seen here Monday.


According to a text of the South African amendments, a copy of
which was obtained by AFP, "the 90-day period of grace provided
to Iran would allow for a de-escalation of tensions and create an
opportunity for Iran and the other parties involved to resume
negotiations toward a long-term solution."


"Sanctions should never be adopted in haste when other tracks for
the peaceful resolution of a situation should be addressed," the
text said.


The idea of a simultaneous 90-day suspension of Iran's uranium
enrichment, seen as a pathway to nuclear weapons, and of Security
Council sanctions against the Islamic Republic, was first mooted
by Mohamed ElBaradei, head of the Vienna- based International
Atomic Energy Agency, earlier this year.


South Africa, which joined the Security Council as a non-
permanent member on January 1, chairs the Council for this month.


But diplomats said the South African amendments have little
chance of being accepted by the council's five veto-wielding
permanent members, which last week reached agreement on the new
draft sanctions after Tehran repeatedly spurned UN demands to
freeze sensitive nuclear fuel work.


The new draft bans Iran from exporting arms, calls for voluntary
trade sanctions on the Islamic Republic and expands a list of
officials and companies targeted for financial and travel
restrictions because of their alleged links with Iran's sensitive
nuclear and ballistic missile programs.


South Africa, which dismantled its nuclear weapons program in the
early 1990s during its transition from white minority rule to a
democratic state, has consistently defended Iran's right to
enrich uranium for peaceful purposes.

