

The bloody Greco-Persian war epic "300" plundered the North
American box-office for the second weekend running, final
industry figures showed Monday.


The film, which has angered Iranian authorities who complain it
portrays their ancient ancestors as savages, depicts the 480 BC
Battle of Thermopylae between a massive invading Persian force
and outnumbered Greek soldiers.


But it has been a surprise hit at North American theatres,
earning 32.9 million dollars in its second week, according to
figures from box-office tracker Exhibitor Relations.


So far "300" has raked in 129.2 million dollars at the box-
office, making it one of the early hits of 2007.


In second place was the comedy "Wild Hogs," which portrays the
bumbling motorcycle road trip of a handful of 40-plus
suburbanites. The film brought in 19 million dollars, taking its
three-week total to 104.2 million.


Debuting in third place was thriller "Premonition," starring
Sandra Bullock, netting 17.6 million dollars.


Two more new films debuted in the top five: mad ventriloquist
horror pic "Dead Silence," earning 7.8 million, and comedian
Chris Rock's "I Think I Love My Wife" (5.7 million).


Family adventure story "Bridge to Terabithia," based on the
award-winning novel by Katherine Paterson, took 5.2 million
dollars to hold sixth place in its fifth week.


Sony Pictures's "Ghost Rider," in seventh place, earned another
4.2 million to take its total five weeks since opening to 110.4
million.


Rounding out the top 12 films of the weekend were "Zodiac" (3.3
million), "Norbit" (2.8 million), "Music and Lyrics" (2.3
million) and "Amazing Grace" (2.1 million) slightly ahead of "The
Number 23".


The top 12 films pulled in 105 million dollars for the Friday to
Sunday period, an increase of around 12 million dollars from a
year earlier.

