

A Pakistani woman was on Monday awarded a European human rights
prize, five years after she was stripped naked, gang-raped and
left for dead on the orders of a tribal council.


"All women want equal rights," Mukhtaran Mai, who since her
ordeal has become a leading campaigner for women's rights, said
through an interpreter after receiving the North-South Prize in
Lisbon.


The prize is awarded each year by the Council of Europe through
its Lisbon-based North-South Centre to two people from the
northern and southern hemispheres for their achievements in
promoting human rights.


This year it was presented by the Portuguese President Anibal
Cavaco at a ceremony held in Portugal's parliament.


Mai was raped on the orders of a tribal council in Pakistan in
2002 as punishment for her brother's alleged affair with a woman
from another tribe.


But rather than accept the ruling as normally happens in
Pakistan, she launched a legal battle in a conventional court
which convicted six men who were involved in her rape.


Mai used her compensation money to built the first two schools in
her village and now campaigns for women's rights around the
world.


Father Francisco Van Der Hoff, a Dutch missionary who defends
fair trade for disadvantaged Mexican coffee producers, shared
this year's prize with Mai.


"Their courage, determination and exceptional spirit of
solidarity help reinforce the conviction that it is possible to
make a difference and build a better and fairer world," said
Cavaco Silva at the ceremony.


The Strasbourg-based Council of Europe, the continent's human
rights watchdog, set up the North-South Centre in 1989 to foster
links between the hemispheres.


Past recipients include Irish rock singer Bob Geldof, East
Timor's President Xanana Gusmao and Mozambique's first post-
independence education minister and international children's
rights campaigner, Graca Machel.

