

Wall Street shares raced higher Monday, with the leading Dow
Jones Industrial Average closing up over 100 points, as sentiment
was boosted by several merger and acquisition deals, traders
said.


The Dow Jones index of blue chips closed up a robust 115.76
points (0.96 percent) at 12,226.17.


The Nasdaq composite spiked 21.75 points (0.92 percent) to
2,394.41 while the broad-market Standard & Poor's 500 gained
a strong 15.11 points (1.09 percent) to end at 1,402.06.


Stocks rocketed on the back of fresh merger and takeover news, a
day before the Federal Reserve opens a two day interest rate
meeting in Washington.


The US central bank is widely expected to keep its short term
interest rate anchored at 5.25 percent, but market participants
said they would be scrutinizing an accompanying policy statement.


"While no change in interest rates is expected, the market will
be watching to see if the Fed alters its policy statement on
Wednesday to reflect less concern about inflation," said Al
Goldman, a chief market strategist at AG Edwards.


Despite worries about inflationary pressures, a housing market
slump, and a moderation in US growth, economists expect the Fed
to keep rates on hold and wait for a better economic picture to
emerge in coming weeks.


The federal funds rate has been unchanged since August, when the
Fed halted a string of 17 quarter-point increases.


On the stock front, ServiceMaster, which makes garden treatment
products and home cleaning solutions, closed higher after
announcing it had agreed to be taken over by the Clayton,
Dublilier and Rice investment fund for 5.5 billion dollars.


ServiceMaster's stock closed up a hefty 1.68 dollars (12.5
percent) at 15.15 dollars.


Under the deal's terms, ServiceMaster's shareholders will receive
15.62 dollars in cash for each outstanding ServiceMaster share.
The price marks a premium of 16 percent over the firm's closing
share price on Friday.


Dutch bank ABN Amro and British banking group Barclays meanwhile
confirmed they were in "early and exploratory" talks over a
possible merger that could create the world's fifth largest bank
behind Citigroup, Bank of America, both of the United States,
China's ICBC and British rival HSBC.


Barclays said the talks were concerning "a potential combination
of the two organisations which will create value for both sets of
shareholders."


British news reports suggested Barclays had approached ABN Amro
with a 155 -billion-dollar merger proposal.


US bank stocks were higher. Citigroup closed up 53 cents at 50.06
dollars while Bank of America gained 75 cents at 50.37 dollars,
and JPMorgan Chase finished up 55 cents at 47.58 dollars.


Boeing Co.'s shares closed up 32 cents at 90.32 dollars after the
US aviation giant said it welcomed a new challenge planned by
China in the market for big passenger planes.


China announced it had approved a plan to build large passenger
aircraft which analysts said could take on Boeing and European
company Airbus.


Bond prices declined as the yield on the 10-year US Treasury bond
increased to 4.571 percent from 4.545 percent Friday and that on
the 30-year bond rose to 4.717 percent from 4.695 percent.


Bond prices and yields move in opposing directions.

