

The euro and the dollar rose against the yen on Monday ahead of a
Bank of Japan policy meeting that was expected to end with no
change to the country's ultra- low interest rates.


The euro dipped to 1.3296 dollars in late European trading on
Monday from 1.3309 dollars in New York late on Friday. It was
traded at 156.46 yen from 155.47 yen late on Friday.


The dollar climbed to 117.69 yen, from 116.70 yen late on Friday.


The Bank of Japan began a two-day policy board meeting on Monday
but no change was expected after last month's quarter-point hike
to 0.5 percent, which was the first increase since July.


The yen continued to edge lower across the board as a rebound in
equities sparked renewed interest in the carry trade -- when
money is borrowed in low- yielding currencies in order to invest
in higher-yielding assets elsewhere.


The low-yielding yen and the Swiss franc fell on Monday, while
currencies from regions with high interest rates benefited, such
as the Australian and New Zealand dollars and the pound.


"Rising US stocks continue to fuel fresh demand for carry
trades," said Rhonda Staskow at Thomson IFR Markets.


Recently, sharp falls on stock markets across the world, combined
with worries about trouble among US sub-prime mortgage lenders,
have sparked some unwinding of carry trades.


But investors have begun the week by resuming the high-risk
investment strategy following firm US inflation data last week
and solid gains in equity markets.


Trade on Monday saw the yen fall to near three-week lows against
the Australian dollar, the New Zealand dollar and the euro, as
well as one-week lows against the pound.


UBS currency analyst Daniel Katzive noted that the current
rebound in carry trade sentiment "could have a bit further to go"
given the thin data calendar this week, though he expects the
recent unwinding to resume in the coming weeks.


Bank of New York analyst Neil Mellor agreed, arguing that the
current volatility in financial markets was not conducive to
carry trade plays, which are essentially a risky trade.


"There is too much volatility at the moment. One of the major
pillars of the carry trade is smooth trading conditions and
currency stability," he said.


The euro was changing hands at 1.3296 dollars, against 1.3309
dollars on Friday, 156.46 yen (155.47), 0.6834 pounds (0.6850)
and 1.6129 Swiss francs (1.6073).


The dollar stood at 117.69 yen (116.70) and 1.2132 Swiss francs
(1.2070).


The pound was being traded at 1.9453 dollars (1.9411).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold rose to 655
dollars per ounce, from 653.20 dollars late on Friday.

