

Cesare Battisti, a former Italian communist revolutionary who
went into hiding two and a half years ago after being convicted
of murder, was transferred to Brasilia on Monday pending his
possible extradition to Italy, police said.


Battisti, 52, was sent from Rio de Janeiro, where he was arrested
Sunday, to the Brazilian capital and was "doing well," a police
spokesman said.


Battisti disappeared in France in August 2004, shortly before the
French government signed an extradition order to return him to
Italy, where he has been convicted in absentia for four murders
that took place nearly three decades ago.


In Rome, Italian Justice Minister Clemente Mastella said Battisti
should be extradited "as quickly as possible."


The extradition request must be deliberated by Brazil's supreme
court, which could take fix to six months to reach a decision,
judicial sources said.


"The Italian procedure of convicting in absentia is completely
illegal," said one of Battisti's French lawyers, Eric Turcon. "We
must make sure he is not extradited to Italy."


A former member of the Armed Proletarians for Communism, Battisti
lived in Paris from 1990 where he made his name as a crime
writer.


He was arrested at daybreak in a Rio hotel as he met with a
member of his support committee, who had traveled to Brazil to
give him money, officials said.


Battisti's plight has been taken up by campaigners in France, who
in 2004 vainly urged the government not to accede to Italy's
extradition request.


In 1993 the former revolutionary was given a life sentence by an
Italian court for his role in four murders committed in 1978 and
1979. Battisti has denied involvement.


Supporters say his conviction rested on faulty evidence and that
because he was tried in absentia there should be a retrial, which
Italy refuses.

