

The US ambassador to Zimbabwe walked out of a meeting Monday with
that country's foreign minister after the official tried to
justify a violent government crackdown on the opposition, the
State Department said.


Ambassador Christopher Dell was summoned along with other Western
envoys to a meeting with Foreign Minister Simbarashe Mumbengegwi,
who warned the diplomats to "remain quiet" on the crackdown of
face expulsion, department spokesman Sean McCormack said.


Dell "sought assurances that the minister would provide diplomats
an opportunity to respond," he said in a statement.


"When the ambassador did not receive these assurances, he
departed refusing to participate in the government's attempt to
justify its recent brutality," he said.


"The United States will continue to speak and act steadfastly in
support of the people of Zimbabwe's right to democracy," he said.


The United States and other Western government have condemned a
series of recent attacks on leaders of the opposition to
President Robert Mugabe's 27-year-old government.


In the latest incident, a senior member of the opposition
Movement for Democratic Change (MDC), Nelson Chamisa, was
severely beaten as he tried to leave the country.


"It's just another sad example of the negative turn of events in
Zimbabwe in which democratic principles are trampled on a routine
basis by the Mugabe government," McCormack said earlier in
response to the attack on Chamisa.


Opposition to 83-year-old Mugabe, in power since independence in
1980, has been steadily mounting amid an economic meltdown with
inflation standing at 1,730 percent and four out of five people
out of work.


Mugabe, however, has remained defiant in the face of virulent
criticism, blaming the unrest on the MDC and its critics.

