

Europe's main stock markets closed higher on Monday, boosted by
speculation about a giant deal in the banking industry and news
of a planned merger in the travel sector.


The strong finish by European equities mirrored a recovery across
global markets, which fell heavily last week on fears of trouble
in the US housing sector.


The London FTSE 100 index rose 0.96 percent to close at 6,189.40
points, in Frankfurt the Dax added 1.38 percent to end the day at
6,671.41 and in Paris the CAC 40 index jumped 1.43 percent to
5,458.95.


The DJ Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone blue chip shares increased
1.78 percent to 4,055.49 points.


The euro stood at 1.3296 dollars.


Wall Street shares rocketed higher Monday as investors cheered
US-based merger and acquisition deals a day before the Federal
Reserve opened a two-day meeting on interest rates.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average leapt 0.84 percent to 12,212.23
in midday trade, the Nasdaq composite rose 0.89 percent to
2,393.73 while the broad-market Standard and Poor's 500 spiked
0.95 percent to 1,400.06.


In the European banking sector, Dutch bank ABN Amro emerged on
Monday as a hot takeover prospect in the sights of British
banking group Barclays, which was thought likely to make an offer
to create the fifth-biggest banking group in the world.


Rumours about the deal, the subject of two newspaper reports in
Britain on Sunday, raised hopes of further consolidation in the
banking industry, driving financial stocks higher.


Shares in Barclays fell 0.81 percent to 677 pence after the group
said it would clarify its intentions before the start of trading
in London on Tuesday morning.


But rival HBOS gained 1.07 percent and LLoyds TSB added 2.62
percent to 548 pence.


Shares in ABN Amro gained 9.60 percent to 29.86 euros after
analysts said that other banks, notably BNP Paribas or Societe
Generale in France, US-based Wachovia and Spain's Banco Santander
Central Hispano, might be interested in bidding for the company.


In the travel sector, German travel giant TUI moved Monday to
cement its position as Europe's leading travel and tourism group
by announcing plans to merge its tourism division with First
Choice.


The merger is evidence of further consolidation of the European
tourism industry, with the announcement coming one month after
package holiday specialists Thomas Cook and MyTravel confirmed
they were to carry out their own German-British tie-up.


In Frankfurt, TUI's share price rocketed 9.63 percent to 18.10
euros.


In Spain, shares in French-Spanish tobacco group Altadis rose 6.4
percent to 46.55 euros on press reports that British cigarette
group Imperial Tobacco would be prepared to raise its takeover
offer beyond the 45 euros it proposed last week.


There are also rumours that British American Tobacco might make a
rival takeover bid for Altadis, analysts said.


Earlier on Monday the Tokyo Stock Exchange's benchmark Nikkei-225
index of leading shares closed up 1.59 percent at 17,009.55
points, ending above the key 17,000 points level for the first
time in almost a week.


Hong Kong's key Hang Seng Index ended 1.65-percent higher at
19,266.74 points, led by China Mobile and select blue chips on
expectations that they will post strong 2006 results this week,
dealers said.


Elsewhere in Europe, in Amsterdam the AEX closed up 2.10 percent
at 492.26 points, in Madrid the Ibex 35 gained 1.95 percent to
14,250.20 points, in Brussels the Bel 20 added 2.52 percent to
4,364.65.


In Milan, the SP/Mib closed 1.54 percent higher at 40,480 points
while the Swiss SMI rose 1.4 percent to 8,841.7 points and
Lisbon's PSI 20 rose 1.18 percent to 11,510.78.

