

French top-flight club St Etienne on Monday blasted league
leaders Lyon concerning unsporting remarks made about their
goalkeeper Jeremie Janot on Lyon's club television channel.


Tempers flared at St Etienne after a broadcaster on the channel
said: "We love Janot, but dead."


A statement published by Saint Etienne said: "These remarks were
aired and distributed widely over the internet.


"There was nothing funny about the seriousness and violence with
which these comments were made, and it was disgraceful that the
official channel for Lyon football club would communicate them."


The incident comes just ten days after Lyon filed a complaint
against their regional rivals to a St Etienne court claiming
racist behaviour displayed by the supporters during their derby
match on March 3.


Effigies of jungle animals, supposedly respresenting the Lyon
players, coach and president, were hurled around the north
terraces with a banner attached reading: "Hunting season is open:
kill them."


Club presidents Jean-Michel Aulas of Lyon and St Etienne's
Bernard Caiazzo did little to calm tensions prior to the derby
following a series of contentious comments made in the press.


The derby game was then interrupted for over 20 minutes as flares
were sent back and forth between the two groups of supporters
ending with police intervention.


However both directors tried to restore order in the days
following writing statements on their respective club internet
sites requesting a cessation to hostilities.


Lyon and St Etienne lie only about 60km apart and their football
supporters have a history of rivalry.


Lyon may be the reigning five-time champions but St Etienne were
the great team in France a generation ago, even having French
legend Michel Platini, now the UEFA president, in their ranks.

