

African governments are failing to stump up enough cash to battle
disease on the continent plagued by the worst mortality rates and
a dearth of health workers, the African Union said Tuesday.


Speaking ahead of a gathering of health ministers, African Union
Commission chairman Alpha Oumar Konare said the continent had to
meet past pledges to up health spending.


"Last year we made new commitments to make resources available,
but when I look at the tools being implemented, I see no positive
developments," Konare told reporters.


"I'm convinced that if we can better harmonise our programmes, we
can save money."


Bience Gwanas, AU social affairs commissioner, said between only
three and 10 percent of government spending of AU countries went
towards health, despite a 2001 commitment that this be at least
15 percent.


She said it was also important that resources be used
effectively. Budgets should be managed so that the effect of
spending would be felt by the intended recipients.


"We have not achieved it, we need to continuously push," she was
quoted as saying by the SAPA news agency.


Gwanas said it was important that available resources be used
effectively and managed so that it reached those needing it.


One of the main issues on the conference agenda is a
pharmaceutical manufacturing plan, which would see the continent
-- which depends heavily on imported medicines -- producing its
own medicines.


Other issues high up the agenda of the AU health ministers
conference will include tuberculosis, HIV/AIDS, malaria and a
shortage of health professionals.


Although it accounts for some 25 percent of the cases of ill
health around the world, Africa has only three percent of the
world's health work force.

