

Russia criticised the US authorities Tuesday for having refused
to grant a visa to a leader of the separatist Georgian region of
Abkhazia, who wanted to attend a meeting at the UN in New York.


Sergei Shamba, the "foreign minister" of separatist Abkhazia had
wanted to attend as the text of a new resolution on the dispute
was being drafted, said a Russian foreign ministry statement.


The US State Department effectively prevented an informal meeting
between an Abkhazian representative and UN Security Council
members on the eve of the talks, the statement added.


Washington was "seriously abusing" the fact that the Security
Council headquarters was on their territory by refusing the visa,
the statement continued.


"The United States is trying to put the two parties to a conflict
on an unequal footing and thus to influence the negotiations,"
said the statement.


Last month, Georgia accused Russian combat helicopters of firing
on villages in the Kodori gorge, the only part of the breakaway
province of Abkhazia still under Tbilisi's control.


Abkhazia, a sliver of land between the Black Sea and the Caucasus
mountains, broke away from Georgia after fierce fighting in
1992-93 and now has de facto independence.


The Abkhazian administration survives largely thanks to support
from Russia, which has provided Russian passports to Abkhazian
citizens and maintains a force of about 1,900 soldiers in the
province.


Since coming to power after the 2003 "Rose Revolution", Georgian
President Mikheil Saakashvili has stepped up efforts to reassert
control over Abkhazia and Georgia's other separatist enclave,
South Ossetia.

