

Wall Street shares closed slightly higher Tuesday as the first
quarter earnings season began, with investors displaying caution
ahead of a flurry of reports from corporate America.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average finished up a modest 4.71 points
(0.04 percent) at 12,573.85, while the Nasdaq composite closed
8.43 points (0.34 percent) higher at 2,477.61.


The Standard and Poor's 500 broad-market index ended up 3.78
points (0.26 percent) at 1,448.39.


Traders said stock market investors would likely remain wary
until they gain a clearer insight into companies' earnings
performance.


"The widely followed market averages traded in narrow ranges on
slightly increased volume," said Al Goldman, chief market
strategist at AG Edwards.


Some analysts are upbeat as the earnings season kicks off, but
other analysts are forecasting lackluster news from reporting
companies.


"Analyst estimates call for disappointing earnings increases but
analysts have a consistent history of being too pessimistic
during this six-year economic expansion," Goldman said.


On the stock front, global banking giant Citigroup gained
attention amid media reports suggesting it is on the verge of
announcing a major overhaul of its operations that will see over
26,000 jobs eliminated or reassigned.


The New York Times said the jobs cuts and reassignments would
affect over 26,000 employees but other reports suggested a lower
number under 20,000 positions.


A Citigroup spokeswoman declined to comment on the reports, but
the banking titan was due to announce the results of a wide-
ranging review early Wednesday to investors.


Citigroup's stock closed up 82 cents at 52.40 dollars. Bank of
America finished up 21 cents at 51.07 dollars while Wachovia
ended 13 cents higher at 54.19 dollars.


Meanwhile, DR Horton, Inc., the biggest US homebuilder, said its
orders for new homes had plummeted 37 percent in the last quarter
as the slump in the US housing market continued to bite.


DR Horton said it booked 9.983 net sales orders for new homes in
the quarter ended March 31, marking a hefty downturn from the
same quarter of 2006.


"Market conditions for new home sales continue to be challenging
in most of our markets as inventory levels of both new and
existing homes remain high," said the home builder's chairman
Donald Horton said.


DR Horton's stock closed down 34 cents at 21.70 dollars. Other
home builders were also under pressure. Pulte Homes ended down 65
cents at 26.25 dollars while KB Home lost 57 cents to 41.96
dollars.


Higher oil prices capped stock gains, traders said.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, gained 38 cents to close at 61.89 dollars a
barrel.


Bond prices also climbed. The yield on the 10-year US Treasury
bond dropped to 4.724 percent from 4.745 percent Monday and that
on the 30-year bond fell to 4.906 percent against 4.916 percent.
Bond yields and prices move in opposite directions.

