

There is no way to verify Iran's claims that it can now enrich
uranium on an industrial scale unless international inspections
are fully resumed, a spokeswoman for EU foreign policy chief
Javier Solana said Tuesday.


Iran's defiance of Western calls to suspend enrichment have
earned it two sets of UN sanctions and a two-month deadline to
comply with a new UN Security Council resolution.


"The main message we have to send today to the Iranian leaders is
to implement the resolution of the UN Security in full," said
Solana's spokeswoman Cristina Gallach.


"If they implement the resolution, the inspections will resume
and we will know what is going on and we will be able to resume
talks," she told AFP.


Two inspectors from the UN nuclear watchdog arrived in Iran on
Tuesday for a routine visit, a day after President Mahmoud
Ahmadinejad announced the new phase in his country's nuclear
programme.


Ahmadinejad announced that the country was now able to enrich
uranium on an industrial scale.


Iran insists its nuclear drive is solely aimed at generating
energy but the United States and others accuse it of seeking a
nuclear weapon.


As the IAEA inspections have "almost been halted... it is not
possible for us to say whether it is true or not that they have a
certain amount of centrifuges and that they are producing fuel on
an industrial scale," said Gallach.


But the overall message is "more resolution and less
centrifuges," she added.


Solana spoke to Iran's top nuclear negotiator Ali Larijani last
Wednesday and reiterated Tehran's obligations to implement the UN
resolution while at the same time recalling the international
community's offer to engage in a negotiating process, said
Gallach.


"Since that last talk we haven't heard from the Iranians."


A meeting between the two is a possibility but no date has been
set, she added.

