

Martin Demichelis has been ruled out while fellow midfielder
Bastian Schweinsteiger is still doubtful for Bayern Munich's
Champions League quarter- final, second leg against AC Milan on
Wednesday.


Schweinsteiger hurt a knee in Saturday's German league action and
Demichelis has a hamstring pull. Both scored in the 2-1 victory
at Hanover.


"Martin Demichelis won't play, that's definite. It's still touch
and go for Schweinsteiger," said coach Ottmar Hitzfeld.


"We'll see tomorrow afternoon if he will line up or not."


Hitzfeld insisted that the possible loss of in-form
Schweinsteiger would not be a blow for the team.


"The absences will allow others to make a name for themselves
like we've seen with Andreas Ottl recently."


Hitzfeld added that Brazilian defender Lucio, English midfielder
Owen Hargreaves and Bosnian Hasan Salihamidzic, who missed the
Hanover game, were all "ready for action".


Meanwhile, Milan coach Carlo Ancelotti expressed his belief that
veteran Italy forward Filippo Inzaghi will be fit to start
against Bayern.


Inzaghi has been suffering from a thigh problem but with Antonio
Gilardino suspended, Ronaldo cup-tied and Ricardo Oliveira out of
form and favour, Ancelotti has few options other than the 33
-year-old Inzaghi.


"He's been training and I think he will be fit to play. We need
his talent and experience," said Ancelotti.


Bayern goalkeeper Oliver Kahn said he was not worried about
facing Inzaghi.


"For me, it's nothing new to play against the best international
strikers and Inzaghi is certainly one of them," he said.


"It won't make any difference to me. I'm just concentrating on my
job and I don't care about who is facing me."


Bayern and AC Milan are level at 2-2 after the first leg in
Italy.

