

Brian Lara apologised for West Indies' miserable World Cup
campaign on Tuesday after a 67-run defeat against South Africa
virtually ensured their elimination from the tournament.


West Indies crashed to their fourth successive Super Eights loss
which left them on two points and needing a miracle series of
results to allow them to creep into the semi-finals.


"We are all disappointed and we are very sorry for the way we
have performed in this World Cup," said Lara.


"All we can say is that we are sorry to our people."


The defeat will also increase calls for Lara, in his third spell
at the helm of the team, to step down as skipper with a tour of
England to commence just after the World Cup.


But he insists the priority now is for the team to win their last
two matches - against Bangladesh and England in Barbados on April
19 and 21 - and restore a little bit of pride to the region.


"There will be no semi-final place for us but we have to play
with pride and character in the next two games," said Lara.


"It's a chance to show we can perform with pride and character."


Lara won the toss on Tuesday and put South Africa into bat but
then watched helplessly as AB de Villiers overcame injury and
dehydration to hit 146 while Jacques Kallis (81), Herschelle
Gibbs (61) and Mark Boucher (52) all took Graeme Smith's side to
an imposing 356-4 in 50 overs.


The West Indies reached 279-9 in reply with only Ramnaresh Sarwan
(92) getting beyond 50.


"We knew we had to win today, but things didn't work out,"
admitted Lara.


"But all credit to South Africa. They came back from a defeat
against Bangladesh and played really well. Chasing 356 was always
going to be tough.


"I can't fault the guys. They tried their best but we didn't come
up with trumps.


"It's a huge blow not to reach the semi-finals. The guys are
really down in the dressing room, it's a really quiet place.
There are a lot of sad faces but we have to pick ourselves up and
show that we can host a good World Cup."

