

West Indies were 219-8 after 40 overs in their World Cup Super
Eights match against South Africa here on Tuesday chasing 357 to
win.


Ian Bradshaw was on eight with Daren Powell on five.


Shivnarine Chanderpaul was the first man out caught by captain
Graeme Smith for four off Shaun Pollock in the third over with
the total on five.


Home favourite Devon Smith put on a rapid 60 with opener Chris
Gayle before he went for 33 caught by AB de Villiers off Andre
Nel with the total on 65 in the 11th over.


Gayle went three balls later for 32 with the total on 69 when he
was brilliantly run out by a throw from Ashwell Prince at
midwicket.


Jacques Kallis then made a crucial breakthrough when he forced an
inside edge from Brian Lara onto the stumps after the West Indies
skipper had made 21 off 25 balls with the total on 119 in the
20th over.


Dwayne Bravo made just six before he went to a one-handed catch
by Herschelle Gibbs at midwicket off Pollock in the 25th over
with the total on 142.


Kieron Pollard was the sixth man out, bowled by Kallis for 10 in
the 30th over with the total now on 169 but with the run-rate
creeping up towards the 10 an over mark.


Denesh Ramdin was the seventh wicket to fall when he was caught
by substitute fielder Robin Peterson off Smith for four in the
32nd over with the total on 181.


Victim number eight was Ramnaresh Sarwan who was caught by
Pollock off Makhaya Ntini for a fighting 92 in the 39th over.


Earlier AB de Villiers battling cramps, heat exhaustion and
dehydration, hammered 146 as South Africa thrashed 356 for four
after being sent in to bat.


De Villiers and Kallis (81) put on 170 for the second wicket to
set up South Africa's big total which was boosted by 77 runs
coming off the last powerplay which was delayed by West Indies
skipper Brian Lara until the 45th over.

