

France's presidential favourite Nicolas Sarkozy hit back at
National Front leader Jean-Marie Le Pen on Tuesday, after he said
that Sarkozy's immigrant origins are a factor in this month's
elections.


"I want to say to Monsieur Le Pen, who has implied that I am not
sufficiently French to be president, that yes, I am the child of
immigrants. I am the son of a Hungarian and the grandson of a
Greek who fought for France in World War I," Sarkozy, 52, told a
rally in the central city of Tours.


"Yes, my family came from abroad. But, Monsieur Le Pen, in my
family we love France because we know what we owe to France. I am
a Frenchman of mixed blood, who believes that one is French in as
much as one loves France .... France is not a race, it is not an
ethnic group," he said.


At the week-end Le Pen, 78, described Sarkozy as a "candidate who
comes from immigration" and himself as a "candidate from the
land."


"It's true that there is a difference, a choice that could be
considered fundamental by a certain number of Frenchmen," said Le
Pen, who is running in his fifth presidential election.


Sarkozy, head of the ruling Union for a Popular Movement (UMP),
leads in the polls less than two weeks ahead of the first round
of voting on April 22. Only two candidates qualify for a deciding
second round on May 6.


According to a Ipsos/Dell survey, Sarkozy can expect 30.5 percent
of the first round vote, ahead of the socialist Segolene Royal on
23 percent and the centrist Francois Bayrou on 19.5 percent. Le
Pen is fourth on 13 percent.


In a second round against Royal, Sarkozy would win by 54 percent
to 46, according to the poll. However he would lose if facing
Bayrou.


Several press commentators noted Tuesday that Le Pen's
immigration jibe came at an opportune time for Sarkozy, enabling
the candidate to deflect some of the criticism that arose from
his recent call for a ministry of "immigration and national
identity".

