

Algeria and Libya have reached agreement on the free movement of
people and vehicles between the two countries, the Algerian news
agency APS reported Tuesday.


The two neighbouring countries also agreed to "raise the level of
their political consultations", following a meeting of their
prime ministers in the Libyan capital Tripoli Sunday and Monday.


Algerian Prime Minister Abdelaziz Belkhadem and Libyan Prime
Minister Baghdadi Mahmudi announced the decisions at a joint
press conference in Tripoli, APS said.


"The Algerian and Libyan officials announced measures to
encourage the free movement of people and vehicles without
financial or administrative restrictions. These measures will
take effect from today (Tuesday)," it said.


The decision provides the clarification sought by Algiers
following a statement by Libyan Interior Minister Salah Rajab on
January 31, announcing the introduction of visas for all
foreigners entering Libya, including citizens of the five-nation
Arab Maghreb Union, without setting a precise date.


The announcement had drawn sharp reaction from Algerian Interior
Minister Yazid Zerhouni.


The two countries also decided to increase the level of political
consultation, hold talks over oil and revitalize the security
committee to hold periodic meetings, the Algerian news agency
said.


In addition, the Libyan and Algerian officials agreed to increase
the amount of investment between the two countries, to boost the
number of scheduled flights and to remove customs barriers.


Goods produced in Algeria and Libya will be considered "national
produce" in the markets of both countries.

