

Global environment groups on Tuesday urged a top US sushi meat
supplier to pressure its new Japanese partner, seafood dealer
Kyokuyo, to cease its controversial whalemeat trade.


Kyokuyo recently partnered with True World Foods to begin
marketing its new frozen sushi product in the United States as
early as this summer.


But Environmental Investigation Agency (EIA), Humane Society
International (HSI) and the International Fund for Animal Welfare
(IFAW) urged American grocery stores to think twice before
placing the new product on their shelves.


"Through its sales of millions and millions of cans of whale meat
in Japan each year, Kyokuyo is a driving force behind Japan's
expanding commercial whaling industry," EIA president Allan
Thornton told reporters.


"We appeal to True World Foods to use their influence to persuade
Kyokuyo to immediately end their massive sale of whale meat and
to uphold international laws that protect great whales from
commercial hunting," he said.


True World Foods representatives were not immediately available
for comment.


The International Whaling Commission banned commercial whaling in
1986 but Japan, which says whaling is part of its culture, uses a
loophole that allows whaling for scientific research, with the
meat going on sale. It hunts about 1,000 of the giant mammals a
year.


In a report Tuesday entitled "Raw Deal," EIA said that although
Kyokuyo divested its shares in a commercial whaling company in
March last year, it remained closely involved in the industry as
a major producer and distributor of whalemeat.


"No respectable business should want to be associated with the
cruel and inhumane killing of one of the world's most magnificent
animals," said Kitty Block, HSI's director of treaty law, oceans,
and wildlife protection.


Patrick Ramage, IFAW's global whale campaign manager, said by
buying sushi marketed by Kyokuyo, American shoppers were in
effect backing Japan's whale hunt.

