

Israel expressed disappointment Tuesday with a list of prisoners
the Palestinian Hamas movement wants released in exchange for a
soldier abducted last year near the Gaza Strip.


Prime Minister Ehud Olmert convened a first meeting with the
heads of Israel's security establishment to discuss the list,
which Egptian mediators handed to Israel last week, his office
said.


Israel "expressed disappointment and reservation from the list,"
it said. "Israel will continue its contacts with Egypt on the
issue."


The participants at the meeting included the head of the Shin
Beth internal security services, Yuval Diskin; the head of the
Mosad spy agency, Meir Dagan, and the special coordinator for the
issue of the abducted soldiers, Ofer Dekel.


Corporal Gilad Shalit was captured on June 25 when militants
tunnelled out of Gaza and attacked an army border post. The raid
sparked a deadly Israeli air and ground offensive against the
Gaza Strip that killed several hundred Palestinians before a
November ceasefire came into force.


Israel confirmed on Sunday it had received the list of prisoners
the Palestinians wanted freed through Egyptian mediators, the
first sign of progress after months of deadlock.


But Israel added that many of the listed prisoners had "blood on
their hands," meaning they had been involved in attacks that
killed Israelis.


Israel has said it will not release such detainees, but in recent
days some ministers have called for the government to reconsider
that position.

