

Palestinian prime minister Ismail Haniya said on Tuesday that the
ball was in Israel's court over a prisoner exchange deal for a
soldier held by Gaza militants.


Haniya's comments came as Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert
reviewed a list of prisoners that Palestinians want freed in
exchange for Gilad Shalit, a serviceman captured on June 25 by
Haniya's Hamas movement and other Gaza-based militants.


"We are serious in our will to proceed with an exchange and we
hope that negotiations will lead to the freeing of our detainees
from the prisons of the Israeli occupier," Haniya told reporters
in Gaza City.


"The ball is in Israel's camp and everything now depends on the
answer that Israel will give to the just Palestinian demand to
free our prisoners," Haniya said.


Israel confirmed on Sunday it had received the list of prisoners
Palestinians wanted freed through Egyptian mediators, the first
sign of progress after months of deadlock.


But Israel added that many of the listed prisoners had "blood on
their hands," meaning they had been involved in attacks that
killed Israelis.


Israel has said it will not release such detainees, but in recent
days some ministers have called for the government to reconsider
that position.


Army radio reported that Olmert went through the Palestinians'
list Tuesday with Yuval Diskin, the head of the Shin Beth
domestic security service.


A source close to the Palestinian government told AFP the list
contained the names of 450 prisoners, including such leading
jailed militants as Marwan Barghuti and Ahmed Saadat, both
members of the Palestinian parliament.


Barghuti, the West Bank leader of president Mahmud Abbas's
secular Fatah movement who is widely revered by Palestinians as
the mastermind of their second uprising or intifada, is serving
five life sentences for planning attacks against Israelis.


Saadat, leader of the leftist Popular Front for the Liberation of
Palestine, is accused by Israel of masterminding the 2001
assassination in occupied east Jerusalem of far-right tourism
minister Rehavam Zeevi.


As long ago as last September, Abbas made clear that he would
insist on both men's release as part of any exchange.


Olmert is expected to convene his security cabinet later this
week to set Israel's criteria for clearing prisoners for release.


Shalit was captured when militants tunnelled out of Gaza and
attacked an army border post. The raid sparked a deadly Israeli
air and ground offensive against the Gaza Strip that killed
several hundred Palestinians before a November ceasefire came
into force.


Alan Johnston, the BBC journalist snatched by militants at
gunpoint on March 12, also remains captive in the Gaza Strip --
the longest a foreign kidnap victim has been held in the
increasingly lawless territory.

