

European stock exchanges posted solid gains on Tuesday,
recovering ground lost during a sharp correction in late February
on the back of merger news and positive corporate results.


The London FTSE 100 index ended with a gain of 0.32 percent at
6,417.80 points, while in Frankfurt the Dax added 0.94 percent to
close at 7,166.67. In Paris the CAC 40 rose 0.43 percent to reach
5,766.27 points, its highest level for six years.


The Euro Stoxx 50 index of leading eurozone shares rose 0.70
percent to 4,301.47.


The major US stock indexes were mixed in late Tuesday morning
trading as cautious investors awaited the release of a flurry of
earnings reports from corporate America.


The first quarter earnings seasons kicks off in earnest this week
and will yield updates on the financial health of America's
largest companies as well fresh insights into the strength of the
US economy.


At 1551 GMT, the Dow Jones Industrial Average was down a slight
0.09 percent at 12,558.41 while the Nasdaq composite had added
0.14 percent to reach 2,472.71.


Some analysts are upbeat ahead of the looming earnings season
while others are forecasting lackluster news from reporting
companies.


In London mining issues led the day, reflecting a rise in base
metal prices, notably of copper, which surged to a seven-month
high on hopes of increased Chinese demand.


Vedanta gained 3.62 percent to reach 1.32 pence while BHP
Billiton added 1.90 percent and closed at 1,181 pence.


Pharmaceutical group Alliance Boots added 0.58 percent to reach
1.035 pence on rumors of a counter-offer to an approach put
forward by US investment fund KKR and Alliance deputy chairman
Stefano Pessina.


In Paris the market leader on the day was luxury goods group PPR,
which jumped 3.17 percent to 133.03 euros after announcing plans
to acquire German sportswear giant Puma.


In Frankfurt automaker DaimlerChrysler rose 3.56 percent to close
at 62.33 euros, drawing support from news that US investor Kirk
Kerkorian was to offer 4.5 billion dollars for the company's
troubled Chrysler division.


Elsewhere there were gains of 0.57 percent to 9,150.65 on the
Swiss Market Index, 1.1 percent to 42,892 on the SP/Mib in Milan,
0.20 percent to a record 15,005.5 on the Ibex-35 in Madrid, 0.92
percent to 524.09 on the AEX in Amsterdam and 0.92 percent to
4,595.72 on the bel 20 in Brussels.


In Asia on Tuesday, Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of
leading shares fell 0.45 percent to finish at 17,664.69 points.


Dealers there said that a decision by the Bank of Japan to leave
its key interest rate unchanged at 0.5 percent had been widely
expected.


Hong Kong's key Hang Seng Index closed 0.68 percent higher at
20,347.87 points.

