

UN chief Ban Ki-moon on Tuesday strongly condemned recent acts of
violence in Afghanistan, including the weekend beheading of an
Afghan journalist.


In a statement released by his press office, the UN secretary
general said he was "deeply concerned over the level of
insecurity in Afghanistan, as witnessed by events over the
weekend."


He cited Sunday's "senseless murder" of Afghan reporter Ajmal
Naqshbandi, who was kidnapped by the Taliban early last month
with an Italian journalist, Daniele Mastrogiacomo, and the attack
that killed six Canadian troops serving with the International
Security Assistance Force (ISAF) in Kandahar province.


Mastrogiacomo was freed after some two weeks under an exchange
deal which saw five Taliban prisoners freed from Afghan jails.
The insurgents had demanded the release of some of their jailed
colleagues in order to save Naqshbandi.


"The Secretary-General strongly condemns such acts of violence
and calls upon the Government of Afghanistan and the
international community including the ISAF to redouble their
efforts to ensure stability, combat impunity and ensure an
environment of respect for human rights," the UN statement said.


Tuesday, Taliban militants also ambushed an Afghan army convoy
with rockets and heavy machineguns in southern Afghanistan,
killing four soldiers and injuring 19 others, the defence
ministry said.


Two Afghan troops, a policeman and a rebel were killed in
separate clashes on Monday between the fundamentalist Islamic
movement and security forces loyal to US-backed President Hamid
Karzai, officials said.


Around 1,000 Afghan security forces and NATO-led troops took
Sangin district out of Taliban control at the weekend without
facing any major resistance, according to authorities.

