

Explosive testimony from a woman who claims Phil Spector once
pointed a loaded gun at her head will be allowed at the legendary
music producer's murder trial, a judge ruled Tuesday.


Los Angeles Superior Court Judge Larry Paul Fidler said the
potential testimony of Devra Robitaille, a former employee of
Warner Bros. Records, could provide evidence of a possible
motive.


Spector denies gunning down B-movie actress Lana Clarkson at his
mock-castle in Los Angeles on February 3, 2003, claiming the
statuesque blonde committed suicide.


Prosecutors say Spector shot Clarkson in the foyer of his mansion
hours after picking her up from a Hollywood nightclub.


They had filed a motion seeking to include Robitaille's testimony
to show he has a history of violent behavior against women when
they try to leave him.


According to court documents, the gun ordeal happened when
Spector tried to prevent Robitaille from leaving his home after a
party.


"She heard something, turned and suddenly Spector was holding a
large shotgun, or rifle, using both hands," prosecutor Alan
Jackson wrote in a court document lodged last week.


"He placed the gun against her forehead. Spector, who was drunk,
made some sort of joke and then said, "Just so you know, I'll
blow your (expletive) head off' or 'If you try to leave, I'll
blow your (expletive) brains out.'"


Robitaille told Spector to "knock that off and put that away,"
the court papers said, and she was eventually allowed to leave.


She alleged a similar incident occurred in the mid-1980s, when
Spector again put a gun to her head in the foyer of his home.


Jury selection for Spector's trial is to continue on April 16
with opening prosecution statements expected around the end of
the month.

