

US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice has concluded that
Colombia is fulfilling US requirements on human rights and can
receive 55 million dollars in military aid, her spokesman said
Tuesday.


Rice certified to Congress on April 4 that Colombia's government
and armed forces "are meeting statutory criteria related to human
rights and severing ties to paramilitary groups," said State
Department spokesman Sean McCormack.


The release of the 55 million dollars, budgeted in fiscal year
2006, depended on Rice's ruling.


"We are encouraged by positive developments in the Colombian
government's efforts to protect human rights," McCormack said in
a statement.


"That said, we recognize there is still progress to be made," he
added.


The United States "is committed to continue engaging the
government of Colombia and supporting programs to achieve further
progress in improving the human rights performance of its armed
forces, severing military-paramilitary ties, and ensuring
effective investigation and prosecution of human rights
violations."


Colombian military and government officials have faced
allegations of ties with right-wing paramilitary groups accused
of committing atrocities in their fight against left-wing
guerrillas.


Colombia is Washington's top ally in South America, receiving
four billion dollars in US aid since 2000 through Plan Colombia
to combat drug trafficking and left-wing rebels that have battled
the government for four decades.


US President George W. Bush reiterated Washington's support to
Colombian counterpart Alvaro Uribe during a visit in Bogota last
month, saying Colombia was a "strategic partner."

