

Former Bulgaria coach Hristo Stoichkov will take over at the helm
of struggling Spanish first division club Celta Vigo, the club
confirmed Tuesday.


"The club has reached an agreement with the Bulgarian, who was up
until now the national coach of his country," Celta said in a
statement on their website.


The relegation-threatened Galician club gave no contract details.


The Bulgarian Football Union (BFU) confirmed that Stoichkov stood
down earlier on Tuesday after three years as the national team
coach.


"Stoichkov has personally asked BFU president Borislav Mihaylov
to leave his post by mutual consent. He referred to the negative
attitude towards the national football team and the situation at
the time of the European qualifiers," said the BFU in a
statement.


Stoichkov has been underfire in Bulgaria for 18 months after
their failure to qualify for the 2006 World Cup and a series of
poor results in their 2008 European Championships qualification
campaign.


In their last two outings, Bulgaria have scraped a 1-0 win over
minnows Luxembourg and been held to a 0-0 draw by Albania.


The BFU's executive committee was expected to meet on April 25 to
discuss a replacement for Stoichkov.


Celta sacked their previous coach Fernando Vazquez on Monday
night.


They slipped into the relegation zone and are now third from
bottom after a 4-2 defeat at Recreativo Huelva on Sunday.


Celta have the worst home record in the Spanish first division,
with just one win from 14 league games in their Balaidos stadium
this season.


"I think Celta would still have survived if I had continued as
the coach," said Vazquez bitterly on Tuesday.


Stoichkov is well-known in Spain having been part of the
Barcelona team that won four consecutive La Liga titles at the
start of the 1990s.


He was also part of the Barcelona 'Dream Team' that won the
European Cup in 1992.


Among his other feats as a player, Stoichkov was the winner of
the Golden Boot at the 1994 World Cup.

