

A Bahamas court Tuesday ruled that Larry Birkhead, the former
boyfriend of late Playboy model Anna Nicole Smith, was the father
of her baby daughter, ending months of feverish speculation.


The ruling wiped out rival paternity claims by Smith's long-time
companion, Howard Stern, and actress Zsa Zsa Gabor's husband
Frederic van Anhalt who had filed a lawsuit claiming he had
fathered Smith's daughter Dannielynn.


"I hate to be the one who told you this -- but I told you so!" a
jubilant Birkhead told crowds of media and onlookers after
emerging from the Nassau court-house. "My baby's going to be
coming home."


Stern emerged shortly afterwards and declared he would now seek
to ensure that Birkhead was granted full custody of Dannielynn.


"I'm obviously very disappointed but my feelings for Dannielynn
have not changed," Stern said. "I'm going to do whatever I can to
make sure that Larry Birkhead gets sole custody ... I'd like
there to be a gradual transition."


Birkhead had claimed to be the father of seven-month old
Dannielynn shortly after her birth last year, saying the child
was the off-spring of his relationship with Smith.


Smith and Stern had fought Birkhead's paternity claims but saw a
series of legal judgements go against them.


Smith was eventually ordered to submit the child for DNA testing
just days before her death from a drug overdose in Florida on
February 8.


But the iconic blonde bombshell's death sparked a whole new round
of wrangling over the paternity of Dannielynn, with an
increasingly oddball cast emerging from the woodwork to claim
paternity.

