

A US federal judge rejected a motion by accused Al-Qaeda
operative Jose Padilla to dismiss terrorism charges against him
over allegations he was tortured during his detention at a
military prison.


Judge Marcia Cooke ruled Monday that allegations of abuse in
military custody provided no legal grounds to call off a federal
trial for Padilla as there was no indication he had been
mistreated at the hands of civilian government authorities.


"Padilla makes no allegations regarding outrageous government
conduct prior to his arrest, during the course of his arrest or
during his civilian custodial detention in connection with the
crimes charged in the indictment," the judge wrote in her
decision.


"Mr. Padilla also makes no claim of prosecutorial misconduct
related to the government's efforts to try this case," the judge
added.


A former Chicago gang member who converted to Islam, Padilla, 36,
was detained in May 2002 at a Chicago airport after returning
from Pakistan and held as an "enemy combatant" at a naval base in
South Carolina.


Padilla's lawyers allege their client was tortured during his
2002-2005 imprisonment in the naval brig, and that his treatment
traumatized him so much that he could not assist in his own
defense. Padilla has demanded his trial be thrown out due to the
alleged abuse.


Transferred in January 2006 to a federal prison, Padilla is set
to go on trial on April 16 on charges he aided a US-based Al-
Qaeda terror cell that supplied recruits and funding to Islamic
extremists abroad.


Padilla and two others are accused of conspiracy to murder,
kidnap and maim persons outside the United States, which carries
a maximum life sentence. Padilla is also accused of conspiracy to
provide assistance to terrorists.


Padilla has pleaded not guilty to the charges.

