

The United Arab Emirates has the most competitive economy in the
Arab world, followed by Qatar and Kuwait, said a report released
in Doha on Tuesday by the World Economic Forum.


The Arab World Competitiveness Report 2007, which is based on the
WEF's Global Competitiveness Report and classifies countries into
three groups, said the UAE came first among the Arab countries at
the third and most advanced stage of development.


But oil-rich UAE came only 29th in the group that included 40
countries, topped by Switzerland.


Qatar followed at 32, while Kuwait and Bahrain came 35th and
39th, respectively.


Tunisia, meanwhile, came first among Arab countries in the second
group which included countries in the middle stage of
development. Ranked third among 40 countries, Tunisia was
followed by Oman as eighth in the group headed by Malaysia.


Jordan which was classified ninth in the same group by the GCR in
2005-06 has dropped to 13th place. Libya and Algeria ranked 26th
and 29th respectively.


In the group of the least advanced in development, Egypt led
three other Arab countries as it came fourth after India,
Indonesia and China.


Morocco followed closely as seventh, and Syria as 12th. Muritania
was ranked as 38th on the list, which included 48 countries.


"The rankings highlight the diversity of Arab economies and the
divergent performance in terms of national competitiveness," said
WEF's senior economist Margareta Drzeniek Hanouz, a co-editor of
the report.


In the 2005 report, WEF said Arab countries must significantly
raise their competitiveness if they are to remain viable in the
global economy in areas other than the energy sector.

