

Police and fans clashed briefly outside Manchester United's Old
Trafford football ground Tuesday, ahead of a tense Champions
League tie with AS Roma.


Up to 100 people were involved in a brief flare-up shortly before
kick-off of the quarter-final second leg tie, although a Greater
Manchester Police spokesman told AFP there had been only "a minor
disturbance between a small number of people".


The force added that there had been "a number of arrests" in the
skirmishes, which lasted up to five minutes, but could not
provide exact figures.


"Officers policing the Manchester United versus Roma match have
dealt with a number of isolated incidents outside the ground
prior to kick-off," a police spokeswoman said.


"The incidents have been resolved quickly and at this stage there
have been no reports of any injuries."


Witnesses said that Manchester United fans had tried to rile
Italian ones but the police intervened swiftly to prevent
trouble.


Television pictures showed officers circling crowds with batons
and dogs as well as some missiles being thrown at police. Fans
were later shown being escorted into the ground just over an hour
before the match started.


Before the match, two Roma fans said they were too afraid to go
inside Old Trafford for fear of being harmed after the match.


Alessandro Pinci, 53, said that he and his 24-year-old son Matteo
had to "stand there and shield ourselves as the bottles came
flying at us."


"This is not football. We do not want to go inside and watch the
game because if we happen to win the tie then it will be war
outside afterwards."


At last week's clash in Rome, several United fans needed hospital
treatment after being stabbed before the match and Italian police
baton-charged the visiting supporters during the first half.


Some 3,800 Italian fans arrived on 14 planes Tuesday and there
was no trouble in downtown Manchester this afternoon.

