

Afghanistan promised Tuesday to do its utmost to free two French
aid workers seized a week ago by the Taliban as Australia pledged
to nearly double its military force in the insurgency-hit
country.


The latest developments came as ten people were killed in fresh
violence linked to the resurgent Islamic movement, four of them
militants who died when US-led warplanes bombed their hideout,
officials said.


The Taliban are also behind a wave of kidnappings which analysts
say are meant to capitalise on a deal made by the government last
month to swap an Italian reporter abducted by the rebels for five
Taliban.


When asked about two French nationals missing since April 3, a
spokesman for US- backed President Hamid Karzai said Tuesday that
"the security institutions are doing their utmost... for their
safe release".


The Taliban say they have been holding the pair from the aid
organisation Terre d'Enfance (A World For Our Children) along
with three Afghan colleagues since abducting them in the
southwestern province of Nimroz.


Karzai said last week that no more hostage deals would be made
after a controversial trade involving five Taliban prisoners
resulted in the release of Daniele Mastrogiacomo, a reporter for
the Italian daily La Repubblica.


Afghan journalist Ajmal Naqshbandi, who was seized along with the
Italian, was beheaded by the militants on Sunday. The rebels have
also threatened to kill one of a five-strong Afghan medical team
seized separately on March 27.


The abductions underline the challenges facing a special
Australian task force, spearheaded by 300 elite soldiers, that
Prime Minister John Howard said would be deployed shortly to
counter an expected Taliban summer offensive.


He told reporters in Sydney that his countrymen should be
prepared for casualties.


Australia already has some 550 soldiers in Afghanistan. Its total
military commitment would reach about 950 troops by the middle of
this year, and 1,000 next year, Howard said.


The new elite troops, including Special Air Services soldiers and
commandos, would be sent to Uruzgan province in south-central
Afghanistan.


In Helmand province which borders Uruzgan, Taliban rebels
attacked troops from the US-led coalition and the Afghan army
fired rocket-propelled grenades in the Sangin district late
Monday, a coalition statement said.


"Coalition close air support was requested and fired on the
enemy-occupied compound. As Taliban fighters began to flee,
coalition aircraft engaged and killed four Taliban fighters who
were attempting to escape," it said.


The Taliban ambushed an Afghan army convoy with rockets Monday in
Zabul province, which also neighbours Uruzgan, killing four
soldiers and injuring 19 as they returned to their base, a
defence ministry spokesman said.


Also on Monday, Taliban fighters opened fire on a police vehicle
in Kandahar, the birthplace of the Taliban movement, sparking a
gunbattle in which a policeman and an insurgent were killed,
police chief Esmatullah Alizai said.


Nearly 1,000 people have died in Taliban-related violence since
January, including scores of Afghan security forces, civilians
and militants themselves, along with 34 foreign soldiers,
according to an AFP toll based on reports.

