

Authorities searched a container ship Tuesday suspected of
carrying hundreds of stowaways after it arrived in Halifax port
on Canada's east coast under police escort.


Public broadcaster CBC said officials were warned the Cyprus-
registered vessel arriving from Lisbon was carrying as many as
200 illegal immigrants.


But after nearly four hours of searching through the ship and
cutting locks off a handful of containers onboard, Canada Border
Services Agency agents had not found any stowaways, federal
police told AFP.


"We're standing by to offer assistance to border services, but
they haven't found anything yet," said Sergeant Frank Skidmore of
the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP).


"They did a lot of searching this afternoon but haven't found
anything. They should start unloading the containers and begin
searching them around 6 pm (2100 GMT)," he added.


Canada Border Services Agency refused to comment on the ongoing
operation. But local media said Public Safety Minister Stockwell
Day had stopped by the port during the day to check on their
progress.


Local hospitals were also on alert in case anyone is found aboard
in need of medical help, said reports.


The Cala Puebla began its journey in Italy, stopping in Spain
before arriving in Portugal, then leaving for Canada on April 1.


The captain told CBC he received a call thereafter from Portugese
officials alerting him to possible stowaways, but added he found
none.


An agent for the Cala Puebla meanwhile told Canadian media the
company was informed a few days ago that there may be people
stowed in containers on the massive ship, but said he doubted
that their information was accurate.

