

The major US stock indexes were mixed in late Tuesday morning
trading as cautious investors awaited the release of a flurry of
earnings reports from corporate America.


The first quarter earnings seasons kicks off in earnest this week
and will yield updates on the financial health of America's
largest companies as well fresh insights into the strength of the
US economy.


At 1551 GMT, the Dow Jones Industrial Average was down a slight
10.73 points (0.09 percent) at 12,558.41 while the Nasdaq
composite had added 3.53 points (0.14 percent) to 2,472.71.


The Standard and Poor's 500 broad-market index was up a scant
0.71 points (0.05 percent) at 1,445.32.


"The widely followed market averages traded in narrow ranges on
slightly increased volume," said Al Goldman, chief market
strategist at AG Edwards.


Some analysts are upbeat ahead of the looming earnings season,
but other analysts are forecasting lackluster news from reporting
companies.


"Analyst estimates call for disappointing earnings increases but
analysts have a consistent history of being too pessimistic
during this six-year economic expansion," Goldman said.


"We expect this pattern to continue and also point to
constructive trading activity as the market reacts to positive
news and largely sidesteps negative news," he added.


Traders said stock market investors would likely remain cautious
until they gain a clearer picture of the latest corporate
performances.


On the stock front, global banking giant Citigroup gained
attention amid media reports suggesting it is on the verge of
announcing a major overhaul of its operations that will see over
26,000 jobs eliminated or reassigned.


The New York Times said the jobs cuts and reassignments would
affect over 26,000 employees but other reports suggested a lower
number of under 20,000 posts.


A Citigroup spokeswoman declined to comment on the reports, but
the banking giant was due to announce the results of a wide-
ranging expense review early Wednesday to investors.


Citigroup's stock was up 50 cents at 52.08 dollars. Bank of
America was up five cents at 50.91 dollars while Wachovia was
down three cents at 54.03 dollars.


Meanwhile, DR Horton, Inc., the largest US homebuilder, said its
orders for new homes had dived 37 percent in the last quarter as
the slump in the country's housing market continued apace.


DR Horton said it received 9.983 net sales orders for new homes
in the quarter ended March 31, marking a sharp downturn from the
same quarter of 2006.


"Market conditions for new home sales continue to be challenging
in most of our markets as inventory levels of both new and
existing homes remain high," said the home builder's chairman
Donald Horton said.


DR Horton's stock was down 38 cents at 21.66 dollars. Other home
builders were also under pressure. Pulte Homes was down 50 cents
at 26.40 dollars while KB Home was 55 cents lower at 41.98
dollars.


Rising crude oil prices also put stocks under pressure.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, was up 39 cents at 61.90 dollars a barrel in
late morning trades.


Bond prices also strengthened. The yield on the 10-year US
Treasury bonds fell to 4.716 percent from 4.745 percent late
Monday, while that on the 30-year bond dropped to 4.899 percent
from 4.916 percent. Bond yields and prices move in opposite
directions.

