

Basque separatist group ETA has "rebuilt its capabilities" to
commit attacks despite a March 2006 ceasefire, Europol said in a
report Tuesday.


"ETA has not only maintained but also rebuilt its capabilities to
strike with well-prepared, organised and coordinated attacks
against high profile targets," Europol warned in a report on the
"EU terrorism situation" last year.


Europol said that since the March 2006 unilateral truce, ETA had
used Basque youth organisation Taldes Y to carry out "a high
number of low intensity attacks to maintain pressure on the
Spanish government".


ETA on Sunday stood by its ceasefire declaration of March 24 last
year, but warned that it would not abandon its armed struggle for
independence in northern Spain if police kept up pressure against
it.


Spanish newspaper ABC reported earlier Tuesday that ETA has two
active cells ready to launch attacks in Spain if its banned
political wing was prevented from entering local elections in
May.


Europol said in the report that 498 "terrorist" attacks were
perpetrated in 11 EU member states last year, although most of
the incidents caused only material damage.


France saw the most, recording a total of 294 attacks with 283
taking place in the Mediterranean island of Corsica, which has
been plagued by more than 30 years of low-level violence waged by
separatists opposed to French rule.


Spain meanwhile saw 145 attacks with 136 caused by separatist
groups mainly in the northern Basque region.


Police arrested 706 people suspected of terror offences last year
in 15 EU countries, with 342 in France, followed by 156 in
Britain. Half of the total were related to Islamist militants.

