

The powerful head of Egypt's antiquities department on Tuesday
ruled out any onsite tests to check the veracity of a new French
theory about the building of the Great Pyramid.


"It makes sense, but not great sense," Zahi Hawass told AFP.
"Everbody can have a theory, you have 300 people and 99 percent
of them are non-specialists, I cannot let them all go onto the
site."


French architect Jean Pierre Houdin put forward a theory on the
construction of the Great Pyramid in March, suggesting it had
been built using an internal spiral ramp, rather than an external
ramp as had long been suggested.


Using 3-D technology from Dassault Systems, the architect built a
model of the 4,500-year-old structure with the internal tunnel
and he has said he wants to test the veracity of his theary on
site.


Houdin proposed mounting a joint expedition of Egyptian
antiquities experts and French engineers to examine the pyramid
using non-invasive methods, such as infra-red and radar.


"I cannot allow these people to check their theories unless they
have a well- known institution backing them," said Hawass.


In the past, Hawass has been reluctant to allow the various
theories about the construction of Egypt's pyramids or the
presence of secret chambers within the massive structures to be
tested.


But he announced that teams from Singapore, Hong Kong and
Manchester are competing to develop camera-toting robots to
explore a series of small shafts, blocked by doors leading off
the Queen's chamber in the Great Pyramid.


A decision will be announced in three months, he said.

