

A British woman lost her last chance of having a baby of her own
Tuesday after a European court rules she cannot use frozen
embryos made with her former fiance.


Natallie Evans broke down at an emotional press conference in
London, shortly after the ruling was handed down by the European
Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg.


"I am distraught at the court's decision today. It's very hard
for me to accept that the embryos will now be destroyed and that
I will never become a mother," she said in a statement issued on
her behalf.


The EU court's Grand Chamber said in its ruling that "the embryos
created by the applicant and (her fiance) did not have a right to
life within the meaning of Article 2" of the European Convention
on Human Rights.


The ruling ends an emotional five-year legal battle started by
Evans, 35.


Evans learned in 2000 that she had contracted ovarian cancer.
Afterward, her fiance at the time, Howard Johnston, agreed to an
in-vitro fertilisation which produced six embryos.


When the couple later broke up, Johnston refused to allow the
embryos to be brought to maturity.


The human rights court ruled in March 2006 that Evans did not
have the right to have children using the frozen embryos. The
decision was in accordance with an earlier British court ruling
that consent was required from both parties.


The court also noted that British law did not recognise that an
embryo had independent rights, refusing Evans' right-to-life
argument.


Evans appealed and a hearing followed in November before the
court's so-called Grand Chamber.


The embryos are the only chance for Evans -- left infertile after
the succesful treatment of her cancer -- of becoming a mother.


The clinic involved has been ordered to keep the embryos until
all appeals are exhausted but will destroy them if the court
decides against Evans, who is from Wiltshire.


Under current British law, both the man and woman have to give
their consent at every stage of IVF treatment.

