

Kenyan government and opposition lawmakers on Tuesday met for the
first time in 14 months in a fresh attempt to rewrite the
country's constitution ahead of general elections expected later
this year.


The committee to oversee the revision of the constitution will be
made up of 14 government lawmakers, 13 from the opposition and
three other members, Vice President Moody Awori said in a
statement.


"We have had our first preliminary meeting of MPs to prepare a
roadmap to jump- start discussions on the constitution to see
that necessary minimum reforms are enacted to make the generel
elections to be held a neutral ground," Awori said in a
statement.


"We discussed how the committee will carry out its business
because the matter is so important (therefore) we would like
consensus to guide us," he added.


The civil societies have announced plans to organise nationwide
protests ahead of December presidential, parliamentary and civic
polls if they are excluded from the review.


But Awori, who will co-chair the committee with opposition leader
Uhuru Kenyatta, said the panel will hammer out a formular to
accommodate the civil groups.


"We agreed that civil society will be represented in our next
meeting on Tuesday," he added.


Kenyan President Mwai Kibakli came to power in December 2002
chiefly on a platform of rewriting the country's basic law.


But in November 2005, nearly 60 percent of voters rejected a
proposed draft constitution, which would have been the first
major overhaul of the east African nation's charter since
independence from Britain in 1963.


That referendum was marked by violence and forced Kibaki to sack
cabinet ministers who rejected the draft, dealing a massive blow
to the government.


The vote was the culmination of a convoluted 15-year process,
which began under the reign of former president and autocrat
Daniel arap Moi, to bring the country a new charter that
reflected the needs and concerns of its citizens.

