

British private equity group Terra Firma and the Wellcome Trust
medical charity confirmed on Tuesday they were mulling a
counterbid for Alliance Boots, the biggest pharmacy chain in
Europe.


A bid from Terra Firma and the Wellcome Trust, which was mooted
in British newspapers over the weekend, would challenge plans by
US private equity group Kohlberg Kravis Roberts (KKR) to take
over Alliance Boots for 10.06 billion pounds (14.72 billion
euros, 19.61 billion dollars).


"Further to recent speculation, Terra Firma and the Wellcome
Trust confirm that they are at the early stages of assessing
Alliance Boots," the two groups said in a statement released
after the London stock market closed.


"No decision has been made regarding the merits of making an
offer for Alliance Boots and as a consequence there can be no
certainty that an offer will be forthcoming."


KKR, which is tabling a joint offer with Alliance Boots'
executive deputy chairman Stefano Pessina, increased its bid last
month to 1,040 pence per share.


The company's share price closed 0.58 percent higher at 1,035
pence on London's FTSE 100 on Tuesday. London's leading share
index was up 0.32 percent at 6,417.80 points.


Alliance Boots was created last year by the British merger of
pharmacy chain Alliance UniChem and health and beauty retailer
Boots. In Britain, the group has 2,600 healthcare outlets, which
include 1,500 community pharmacies. The combined group has more
than 100,000 employees.

