

China will not take part in a meeting of Group of Seven finance
ministers in Washington this week organised by G7 president
Germany, a spokesman for the finance ministry said here Tuesday.


"According to the information we have the Chinese delegation will
not be participating in the meeting," the spokesman told AFP. He
did not cite a reason.


China is not a member of the G7 but has frequently taken part in
some of the discussions during the G7 sessions.


The G7 groups Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and
the United States while Russia rounds out the Group of Eight
(G8).


The gathering of the finance ministers of the world's seven
richest nations is to be held Friday, ahead of the annual
IMF/World Bank meeting in the US capital, is expected to focus on
hedge funds.


According to press reports, the largest of the highly speculative
investment funds, Blackstone, Cerberus and Fortress are likely to
take part.


Calls for tougher regulation of hedge funds, a trillion-dollar
industry that has grown rapidly in recent years, have mounted in
recent months.


Concern has grown because ostensibly conservative pension funds
have joined the rush to invest in hedge funds despite their
secretive trading practices.


G7 finance ministers in February debated the risks to the global
financial system posed by hedge funds and urged greater vigilance
of the industry.


Germany has put increased transparency and even regulation of the
largely uncontrolled hedge fund sector at the top of its agenda
for its year-long G8 presidency but has run into resistance from
the United States in particular.


German Finance Minister Peer Steinbrueck meanwhile came under
fire Tuesday for preferring to go on holiday with his family
rather than attend the G7 meeting.


He will be represented in Washington by his number two in the
finance ministry, Thomas Mirow, the ministry said.

