

Iraqi and US troops backed by helicopter gunships battled
insurgents in the heart of Baghdad on Tuesday, in firefights that
killed four Iraqi soldiers and wounded 16 Americans, the military
said.


Two US combat helicopters were slightly damaged when they came
under small arms fire during the gunfights and briefly had to
return to base.


Iraqi and US troops conducting routine cordon and search
operations in Rusafa were rapidly ambushed by small arms fire in
the Al-Fadhel area, and air assets were called in, the US
military said.


"Attack helicopters targeted by small arms fire suffered minor
damage, returned to base and then continued with their missions,"
it said.


"Combined forces on the ground continued to work with attack
aviation assets throughout the day to locate, identify, and
engage and kill three insurgents targeting coalition and Iraqi
security forces in the area.


"As a result of this small arms fire incident, one local nation
child was injured, four Iraqi army soldiers killed and two
wounded. Sixteen MND-B soldiers were also wounded in the attack,"
the military said.


Iraqi and US troops have been waging a massive security crackdown
in the capital for nearly two months that has seen American
officials upbeat about signs of progress.


Although execution-style killings have fallen drastically as a
result of the Baghdad crackdown, car bombings have continued. The
latest killed five people and wounded another 10 people on
Tuesday near Baghdad University.


The attack took place near the university campus in the
southwestern Jadiriyah district of the capital.


Colleges and academics have been a persistent target for
insurgents in the war- wracked country in the four years since
the US-led invasion.


A rocket also slammed into a school on Palestine Street killing
one pupil, the headteacher said. The only Christian in the
school, the boy was hit as he played alone outside while his
Muslim classmates attended a religious lesson.

