

Saudi King Abdullah, whose country hosted a meeting last month
between rival Palestinian factions, on Saturday telephoned the
two leaders to congratulate them on the formation of a national
unity government.


The official news agency SPA said the king told Palestinian
president Mahmud Abbas and prime minister Ismail Haniya that he
hoped the formation was "a step on the path to establishing the
Palestinian state on its territory and to achieving a just and
global peace in all the region."


Last month's meeting laid the groundwork enabling the unity
government to be formed.


King Abdullah added: "After having won the confidence of the
Palestinian legislative council (parliament) and being sworn in,
the government is going to assume its functions in the service of
the Palestinian people and work for a settlement (of the Israeli-
Palestinian conflict) on the basis of international legitimacy
and the Arab peace initiative."


The new government is the first to join the secular Fatah of
Abbas and the Islamist Hamas of Haniya, and follows weeks of
wrangling and bloodshed as rival militants clashed.


Palestinians hope that the cabinet will mean the lifting of a
Western aid boycott which has crippled their economy and caused
widespread misery and poverty. The blockade was imposed after
Hamas won an overwhelming -- and surprise -- victory over the
long-dominant Fatah in democratic elections early last year.


Israel, its major ally the United States, and the European Union
see Hamas as a terrorist movement responsible for suicide
bombings, while Hamas claims the right of resistance against
Israeli occupation of Palestinian lands.

