

Juan Manuel Marquez took the World Boxing Council super
featherweight title from Marco Antonio Barrera, winning a
unanimous 12-round decision here Saturday in a showdown of
Mexican stars.


Marquez improved to 47-3 with one drawn on judges' scores of
118-109, 116-111 and 116-111. Barrera fell to 64-5, losing in his
fifth defense of the crown.


"This was very important to me," Marquez said. "I knew this fight
was going to be a war and it was. I won every round."


Marquez, who would like to set up a big-money bout against
Filipino superstar Manny Pacquiao, moved up a weight class to
challenge Barrera in a matchup of 33 -year-old ring veterans.


The title was not the first for Marquez, who took the World
Boxing Association and International Boxing Federation
featherweight titles in 2003.


In the seventh round came the turning point when Barrera had a
point removed by referee Jay Nady for hitting Marquez after Nady
had separated the fighters.


Barrera was staggered but hit Marquez with a hard right that
forced the challenger's knee to touch the canvas. Nady signaled
no knockdown even though television replays showed he was wrong.


"I did everything necessary to win. I don't know what happened to
the judges. He was down. I knocked him out," Barrera said.


"What's wrong with the judges? I was winning. I won the fight."


Keith Kizer, director of the Nevada Athletic Commission, said
there are no plans to have a replay review system similar to one
now in place in New Jersey.


"We don't want anything that will take away from the traditional
aspects of the sport," Kizer said. "Replay is something we have
thought about for years. Anything is possible with technology
growing by leaps and bounds.


"We'll just have to take a closer look at it."

