

Australia's World Cup captain Mark Viduka has slammed Football
Federation Australia over the scheduling of high-profile home
internationals against Uruguay and Argentina in June ahead of the
Asian Cup.


There are suggestions here that players coming off intense
European seasons in May may miss the games against the South
American giants to freshen up ahead of July's Asian Cup.


Australia play Uruguay in Sydney on June 2 before backing up four
days later against Argentina in Melbourne, with both matches on
the verge of selling out.


Reports said Australian players are annoyed, claiming FFA ignored
their pleas for the games to be shifted to late June to kick-
start their Asian Cup bid, starting on July 8 against Oman in
Bangkok.


"You need a rest and after our schedule over the past few years,
it's a bit too much," Viduka told the Sunday Telegraph newspaper.


"It's like flogging a dead horse. It's nice for FFA to get
revenue from the games with big crowds, but it's just bad timing
to be honest.


"If we finish the (English) league on May 14, have a two-week
break then play an international, there's a very big risk of
getting injured unless you train the whole time.


"Everybody would love to play in those games, but we're not
getting any younger.


"If you haven't had a rest, like last year with the World Cup, a
lot of players went straight back into pre-season and it was
mentally a draining couple of months."


The newspaper said several players have privately expressed their
concerns to officials, including Italian-based Mark Bresciano.


European stars Tim Cahill and Vince Grella both have injury
worries, while Blackburn Rovers' Brett Emerton may be rested
having played 40 games since September.


The Sunday Telegraph said should FFA not heed the players' pleas,
they could face backlash.

