

Ireland pulled off one of the greatest World Cup shocks of all
time on Saturday when they defeated mighty Pakistan by three
wickets to send the 1992 champions, and one of game's undisputed
superpowers, crashing out of the tournament.


The win for Ireland, made up mostly of part-timers and foreign
imports, was secured when skipper Trent Johnston hit a huge six
off Azhar Mahmood off the fourth ball of the 43rd over.


The sensational outcome also came on St Patrick's Day and put
Ireland on course to qualify for the second round Super Eights on
their debut appearance in the World Cup.


Pakistan needed to win the Group D match after losing their
opening clash to West Indies while Ireland had already picked up
a point from a dramatic last- ball tie against Zimbabwe.


But Ireland triumphed after a tense finale which had seen them
lose three wickets for five runs in seven balls as Pakistan
threatened to pull off a great escape.


Earlier, Johnston won the toss and put Pakistan into bat and the
decision paid rich dividends as Inzamam-ul-Haq's side were
dismissed for 132 in 45.4 overs.


Boyd Rankin was the most successful Irish bowler with three
wickets for 32 runs from nine overs, Andre Botha supported with
the flattering figures of 8-4-5-2, and Kyle McCallan collected
two for 12 from 5.4 overs.


Only four Pakistani batsmen got into double-figures - Kamran
Akmal scored 27, Imran Nazir got 24, and Mohammad Yousuf made 15,
and Mohammad Sami gathered 12.


The Irish bowlers gained favourable bounce and movement from the
hard, grassy surface, but the Pakistani batsmen were also victims
of their own indiscretion and athletic fielding from their
opponents.


Defeat completed a torrid episode in Pakistan's cricket history.


They arrived in the Caribbean without spearhead fast bowlers
Shoaib Akhtar and Mohammad Asif who were injured.

