

Daniela Hantuchova captured her second career singles title and
second in Indian Wells by upsetting Russian Svetlana Kuznetsova
6-3, 6-4 at the Pacific Life Open Saturday.


This marked the first final of the year for the 23-year-old
Hantuchova who made a name for herself in 2002 at Indian Wells.


Both WTA singles titles for Hantuchova have come at the tier one
event at the Indian Wells Tennis Garden stadium.


Asked which one she will treasure more, she this year's
tournament.


"This one is even sweeter," Hantuchova said. "It is better that I
won here again rather than some tiny little tournament for my
second win.


"There is something special about this place. I don't know what
it is. But I love it so much."


Fourteenth seeded Hantuchova had 27 winners and 14 unforced
errors to Kuznetsova's 22 winners and 19 unforced errors in the
one hour, 23 minute match in front of a crowd of 11,500.


Kuznetsova still has a 5-3 career lead against Hantuchova since
their first meeting in 2003 in Leipzig, Germany.


"I had a good week," Kuznetsova said. "At first I didn't even
think I would play in this tournament. I made up my mind at the
last minute and I made it to the final.


"But I was ages from my best game."


Many in the crowd of 11,500 wore green in honour of it being
Saint Patrick's Day.


Hantuchova started quickly by breaking Kuznetsova in the second
game and winning the first two games of the opening set.


Hantuchova was broken in the next game but she managed to break
back immediately to take a 3-1 lead. Hantuchova broke the 21
-year-old Russian again in the fifth game of the second, setting
the stage for her dramatic finish.


She clinched the championship on the first of two match points
when Kuznetsova drove a forehand long.


Hantuchova leaped for joy as she avenged a straight set loss to
Kuznetsova in the Doha tournament which served as a tune-up for
Indian Wells.

