

Thousands of British soldiers who have served in Iraq and
Afghanistan are living in poverty because of delays of up to
three years in injury compensation payouts, a newspaper said
Sunday.


The Mail on Sunday said the government authorities conceded that
7,032 veterans are waiting for financial support from a mixed-up
and slow-moving bureaucracy.


It said it was almost certain that there were hundreds more
wounded former soldiers who were not aware that they qualify for
aid and who suffer alone.


It said the Ministry of Defence has launched its own
investigation into the scandal.


The newspaper claimed the authorities do not properly inform
soldiers of the compensation available to them or help them with
their claims.


Nor do they receive full compensation for the years of service
pay and pension rights denied to them when they discharge
themselves because of injury, it added.


It said the soldiers who are compensated receive much less than
not just other public servants who claim for accidents but also
injured prisoners.


The newspaper said payouts have been held up because of medical
documents being lost in Iraq and said the government's refusal to
reveal casualty figures means the exact number entitled to claim
is not known.


It highlighted the case of Private Kevin Challis who could not
afford to heat his home at Christmas. He had part of his arm
ripped off during combat in Iraq and suffered post-traumatic
stress disorder.


And another young soldier who may be infertile as a result of
groin injuries sustained in a grenade attack has yet to receive
any financial help.


The report comes a week after several British newspapers
published claims that British troops who have been wounded or
suffered mental trauma in Iraq and Afghanistan have received poor
medical and psychiatric care.


The claims carried echoes of a scandal in the United States over
the treatment of wounded soldiers at Walter Reed Medical Center,
the US army's top hospital.

