

The cold waters of Port Phillip Bay and a lack of preparation
proved too much for swimmers from Antigua and Ghana in the 5km
men's open water race at the World Swimming Championships on
Sunday.


On the second lap, Antigua's Kareem Valentine Sandoval asked to
be pulled from the water due to shortness of breath. He initially
appeared to be in respiratory distress but soon recovered.


Shortly afterwards, his compatriot Williams Malique and Ghana's
Adu Opanka Okai were rescued after complaining of muscle cramps.


Okai appeared to have mild hypothermia as well as cramping in his
legs, while Malique was brought shivering onto the shore and
suffered cramps in his hands.


"I'm very tired," said Okai after the race.


The athletes from Ghana only arrived in Australia on Sunday
morning, just hours before the race, following a stopover in
Dubai. When they left Ghana the temperature was above 40 degrees
Celsius.


"Possibly the weather might have impacted those athletes coming
from hotter countries. It's difficult to specifically prepare for
these conditions in their own countries," said ambulance and
paramedic supervisor Suzi Blackburn.


The water was 19 degrees, well above the minimum temperature of
16 Celsius required for the race to go head.


In the last lap of the race, a fourth athlete, Bernard Ray Atsu
Blewudzi of Ghana, was removed suffering from mild hypothermia
and muscle cramping in his legs.


Another athlete from Ghana failed to start the race, as did the
two competitors from Rwanda.


Lifesavers monitored all the swimmers, including the ones lagging
behind, and as soon as they appeared to be in distress they were
pulled out.

