

Hundreds of people held a noisy protest outside the US embassy in
Muslim- majority Malaysia on Sunday to condemn the US occupation
of Iraq ahead of the fourth anniversary of the invasion.


Under the hot tropical sun, some 300 people gathered outside the
embassy in the capital Kuala Lumpur as scores of policemen,
including from the anti-riot squad, watched the peaceful
demonstration.


Muslim women and children with black and white headscarves along
with other Malaysians held up posters and banners reading "Bush A
Cruel Killer," "Bush Get Out Of Iraq". Some shouted: "George
Bush, terrorist."


Sofian Putra, a 44-year-old businessman, warned the United States
that Muslims worldwide would punish the country for what had
happened in Iraq.


"We have to fight back. This is jihad. The US army has killed
many Muslim children. We will kill the US soldiers. We have to do
it to chase the US troops out of Iraq.


"I am here to protest against the four-year US occupation of
Iraq. I want the US to leave Iraq. Their occupation has led to
many Muslims being killed," he told AFP.


Four years after the US-led invasion of Iraq, whose anniversary
is Tuesday, tens or even hundreds of thousands of Iraqis are
known to have died violently, while almost 3,500 members of the
US-led coalition have also perished.


K. Simon, coordinator with the non-governmental Coalition of
Marginalised People, said that the United States must end its
"imperialist" attitude.


"We oppose the US occupation of Iraq. Now the US is trying to
colonise Malaysia with the proposed Free Trade Agreement (FTA). A
free trade deal with the US will harm our farmers and traders,"
he said.


The two countries have held five rounds of free-trade talks but
negotiations have bogged down over dozens of unresolved issues,
and no further rounds have been scheduled so far.

