

The head of the International Olympic Committee's evaluation
commission, Chiharu Igaya, expressed Saturday his "full
confidence" in Salzburg's bid for the 2014 Winter Games after
visiting the candidate city.


"Wintersports in Austria is a real culture and they have hosted
so many games that they have... expertise to organise the Games,"
Japan's Igaya told journalists, adding that the commission had
"full confidence" in Salzburg's ability to host the 2014
Olympics.


The Alpine country "is passionate about wintersports," he
commented.


"Austria has not missed a single edition of the Olympic Winter
Games since the first took place in 1924... (and it) has won 185
medals, that is a remarkable achievement indeed."


Austria has twice hosted the Winter Games -- in 1968 and 1976 --
in the Tyrolean town of Innsbruck, 250 kilometres (155 miles)
southeast of Salzburg. It also holds international alpine ski
competitions on a regular basis.


Igaya noted that "strong governmental support for the Salzburg
Olympic Games was confirmed" during meetings with Chancellor
Alfred Gusenbauer and President Heinz Fischer.


A plan to accommodate a number of visitors far from competition
sites could lead to logistical and transportation difficulties,
but this is "not a weakness but a challenge," he said.


Almost all the facilities needed to host the Games are already in
place in Salzburg and the neighbouring German district of
Berchtesgaden.


Salzburg, which has a relatively modest budget of 920 million
euros (1.225 billion dollars, was the last stop on the IOC
commission's tour of 2014 candidate cities, after visits to
Pyeongchang in South Korea and the Russian resort of Sochi in
February.


The commission is expected to submit its report in June before
the host city is announced on July 4 in Guatemala City.

