

Political parties in Bangladesh will face tough new voting rules
in future polls such as a bar on candidates who have defaulted on
utility or tax payments, an election official said Sunday.


The reforms to the country's voting system and candidate
eligibility rules are expected to be completed by July and will
pave the way for polls which were cancelled in January following
violent protests over vote rigging allegations, election
commissioner Sakhawat Hossain said.


"We will complete the reforms by July. We hope these reforms will
make sure that all future elections reflect the true verdict of
the people," he said.


He did not specify a date for when the next election would be
held.


He said the bar on defaulters and other reforms such as
declarations on funding sources are part of the sweeping moves
that country's military-backed interim government promised after
taking over power following a state of emergency in January.


Hossain, a retired brigadier general, was one of three election
chiefs the interim government appointed as part of its pledge to
prepare the ground for credible polls.


The last elections, which had been slated for January 22, were
cancelled by President Iajuddin Ahmed following violent protests
over opposition allegations the outgoing Bangladesh Nationalist
Party (BNP) had sought to rig the ballot.


Ahmed also stepped down as the head of the previous caretaker
government and imposed the emergency.


The opposition Awami League had alleged that pro-BNP election
commission officials had drawn up a voter list with at least 14
million fake names.

