

France's Jean-Marc Mormeck gained revenge on Jamiacan O'Neil Bell
to become undisputed cruiserweight champion of the world here on
Saturday night.


Mormeck won a unanimous decision for the WBA and WBC belts with
two scores of 115-113 and one of 116-112 to make up for his
knock-out loss to Bell 14 months ago.


Bell, who has American nationality, came into the fight with
three titles but the IBF version was not on the line.


However, he had not fought since the pair's last meeting and that
showed in the early stages where his opponent came out the
stronger.


Mormeck dominated the early rounds, scoring with several heavy
blows, including a devastating body shot.


But Bell, who had been accused of dirty tricks from their first
meeting in the build up to this re-match, felled his opponent
with a low blow.


Mormeck gained his revenge later by also landing with a hard low
blow, but by this time the tide had turned.


Mormeck started fast in their original bout and had Bell on the
ropes before fading late on and being stopped in the 10th.


Once again he seemed to fade, although this time he took a no
risk policy, regularly getting on his bike to catch a breather as
Bell came on strong.


Mormeck kept landing some heavy shots but his work was irregular
and Bell was clearly in the ascendancy in the latter rounds,
coming forward relentlessly, although landing little of note.


By the last round, Mormeck could barely stay on his feet and
could do little more than just fend Bell off, who himself looked
to be tiring.


Bell, of course, was convinced he had won and looked disgusted at
the decision. But after 12 thrilling rounds and with the scores
level at 1-1 in their series, it is sure the world's two best
cruiserweights will meet again.

