

The top US nuclear negotiator said on Sunday he was confident
lingering questions about North Korean funds frozen in Macau
would not derail six-nation talks on ending Pyongyang's nuclear
programmes.


"I think we have a pretty reasonable position that I think that
meets everyone's interest, so I'm pretty confident we can resolve
that," US Assistant Secretary of State Christopher Hill told
reporters.


Hill, on his way to a second day of meetings with other envoys,
said the US will explain its ideas on a final resolution to the
issue of the frozen funds amounting to about 25 million dollars,
but offered no details.


"We've resolved the issue from our point of view and now we have
to explain it to everyone's satisfaction," Hill said.


The six nations that worked out a landmark pact last month to
shut Pyongyang's nuclear programmes are meeting here on
implementing the plan, which offers North Korea badly needed
energy aid and other assistance.


Progress on the agreement has been hindered by Pyongyang's
demands that Washington release the North Korean funds frozen by
US financial sanctions on Banco Delta Asia, a bank in the Chinese
territory of Macau.


North Korea's chief nuclear negotiator said Saturday the country
would not close its facilities until the United States released
all the funds.


The US Treasury announced on Wednesday that it had cleared the
way for the release of the funds, originally frozen out of
concerns that the bank was laundering money for North Korea.


The move now leaves it up to the Macau authorities to decide what
to do with the cash after the bank was left in receivership, US
Treasury official Daniel Glaser said Saturday after talks with
authorities in Macau.

