

Pakistan were facing shock World Cup elimination on Saturday
after Ireland's part-timers bowled them out for just 132 after
45.3 overs in a crucial Group D match at Sabina Park.


Pakistan needed to win this game after losing to hosts West
Indies in their opening match in a Group D which also includes
Zimbabwe.


The Irish, celebrating St Patrick's Day, went into the match
having clinched a point from their first game with a thrilling
last ball tie against Zimbabwe.


Skipper Trent Johnston won the toss and put Pakistan in and the
Asian giants, world champions in 1992, were soon in trouble


They were 25-2 after just five overs with opener Mohammad Hafeez
dismissed off the final ball of the first over for four and star
batsman Younis Khan then caught by Andre Botha off Boyd Rankin
for nought in the fourth over.


Dangerman Mohammad Yousuf was then out caught by William
Porterfield off Johnston for 15 to make the score 56-3 which soon
became 58-4 when skipper Inzamam-ul-Haq was picked up by Eoin
Morgan off Botha for one.


Imran Nazir, who had been dropped earlier, became the next man
out for 24, and with the score at 66, falling to the same Morgan-
Botha combination.


Shoaib Malik, the top scorer for his team against the West
Indies, then became the sixth man out caught by wicketkeeper
Niall O'Brien off brother Kevin having made 9.


That made the score 72-6.


Kamran Akmal and Azhar Mahmood temporarily stopped the rot with a
31-run seventh wicket partnership but Rankin broke the resistance
by having Mahmood caught by Johnston with the all-rounder having
made two.


Johnston then pulled off a stunning catch to dimiss Akmal off
Rankin, holding on to the ball as he ran backwards at mid-on to
leave Pakistan reeling at 106-8.


The last two wickets mustered an extra 26 runs which could prove
crucial when Ireland begin their attempt to win the match.


Rankin was Ireland's best bowler taking 3-32.

