

Four-piece group Scooch won the competition Saturday to represent
Britain at the Eurovision Song Contest in Finland, but only after
red-faced host Terry Wogan announced the wrong winner.


Wogan said soloist Cyndi had won before fellow hostess Fearne
Cotton announced seconds later that the public had voted for
Scooch, which reunited especially for the Eurovision after having
split up seven years ago.


The winners look puzzled before being seized with joy.


"We would like to sincerely apologise to viewers for the
confusion when announcing the winner of last night's programme,"
a spokesman for the BBC said.


"This is live television and unfortunately sometimes these things
do happen. We can confirm that the clear winner was Scooch," he
said.


With an airline-themed dance routine, Scooch sang "Flying The
Flag (For You)," fitting the Eurovision mould.


Scooch had a top 10 hit in 2000 with "More Than I Need To Know,"
but split the same year.


Cyndi Almouzni was hoping to represent Britain even though she is
French.


Her career was launched when she won a talent contest in the
southern port city of Marseille at 14. She later signed a record
contract in the United States while still at school.


Bookmakers were surprised at the selection of the final two after
having tipped Justin Hawkins as favourite to become Britain's
entry.


The former frontman of glam rock band The Darkness was tipped to
win the public vote.


Ex-East 17 star Brian Harvey and ex-Atomic Kitten Liz McLarnon
were also voted out.


Last year's Eurovision Song Contest attracted 100 million viewers
across Europe and was won by the Finnish group Lordi, who
performed their entry, "Hard Rock Halleluja" dressed in monster
masks and costumes.


Last year's British entry Daz Sampson finished 19th at Eurovision
with the song "Teenage Life."


This year's contest will take place on May 12 in Helsinki and
will feature 42 entries.

