

Rights groups Wednesday demanded the abolition of Cambodia's
information ministry, calling it a holdover from the country's
communist past which was still being used to stifle the media.


In a statement to mark World Press Freedom Day, the Cambodian
Centre for Human Rights said that a single person -- Cambodia's
information minister -- should not have sole control over media
licences and coverage.


"In present Cambodia, it is a major obstacle to freedom of press
that one and the same minister controls the flow of information
and decides who shall be allowed to run a radio or a TV station,"
said CCHR president Ou Virak.


"The CCHR calls on the (government) to abolish its Ministry of
Information. ... The belief that information is something that
must be controlled by the state is typical for totalitarian and
authoritarian regimes," he added.


Information Minister Khieu Kanharith argued that the ministry was
necessary to monitor Cambodia's chaotic press corps, which is
under-trained and prone to partisan attacks.


He criticised the CCHR as being ignorant of Cambodia's press law,
which he called liberal by regional standards.


"They don't understand anything -- they should study more," he
said of the CCHR.


"Cambodia is leading other ASEAN (Association of Southeast Asian
Nations) countries in terms of press freedom," he added.


Attacks against journalists have declined but the government has
increasingly turned to the courts to punish reporters or
publications it feels have violated the press law, critics say.


While defamation -- the charge most frequently leveled against
journalists -- was decriminalised in 2006, stiff fines remain in
place to deter aggressive reporting.


Cambodia was ranked "partly free" in the 2007 press freedom
survey by the US- based watchdog Freedom House.

