

Liberia on Tuesday re-launched its diamond mining sector just
days after the United Nations lifted a four-year ban on trade in
the precious gemstone.


The government pledged to strictly abide by the conditions set by
the UN to ensure the gem, blamed for fuelling a barbaric 14-year
civil war in the country, does not slip out of the tight
international diamond control system.


"I want to assure that the government will do all in its power to
stop diamond from entering and leaving our borders illegally,"
Mines Minister Eugene Shannon said at a ceremony to formally
restart trade in the lucrative stone.


The UN on Friday scrapped a block imposed in 2003 on Liberian raw
diamond exports, convinced that the west African nation had made
progress in ensuring international safeguards in diamond trade.


The ceremony was held in Tubmanburg town, formerly a diamond and
iron ore mining hub, 50 kilometres (30 miles) north of the
capital, where a newly built and one of 10 regional diamond
offices to be established across the country, was inaugurated.


President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf said the country would strive to
make sure the gem is not used again to fund conflicts and to
avoid fresh sanctions being imposed on the resource-rich but war
ravaged and impoverished country.


Trafficking in illegal "blood diamonds" is considered to have
been one of the root causes of civil war, not just in Liberia,
but also in neighbouring Sierra Leone where a 10-year brutal
conflict only ended in 2001.


"We must now pledge that never again will our country be put on
sanctions because of the irresponsibility of any government, any
official or any citizen," said Sirleaf.


The top UN envoy in Liberia Alan Doss and the US ambassador to
Monrovia Donald Boot attended the occasion.

