

The first round of US-Czech talks on including the Czech Republic
in a controversial US missile shield system will take place next
week in Prague, officials here said Tuesday.


The negotiations will take place May 10-11 in the defence
ministry and will focus on preparing a bilateral accord on how
long US soldiers can stay in the Czech Republic, a ministry
spokeswoman said.


Prague has already received the text of a bill Washington has
drawn up, and the government is soon to discuss it, the official,
Jana Zechmeisterova, said.


A second round of talks is scheduled for May 22 in the Czech
foreign ministry, according to the CTK agency, citing that
ministry's spokeswoman.


Those negotiations will look at another accord covering the
construction, maintenance, functioning and security of a
targeting radar that will be the key component of the shield in
the country.


A further round will be held "probably in July, in the United
States," the spokeswoman, Zuzana Opletalova, said.


Under the plan, the United States would use the radar and 10
interceptor missiles in Poland to knock out incoming missiles
threatening Western Europe. Washington says the system is
primarily aimed at "rogue states" such as Iran and at extremists
who might use missiles.


Russia, though, has balked at the idea, calling it a threat to
global security.


President Vladimir Putin has said it would increase the risk of
nuclear war and accused Washington of misrepresenting its aims.
He has also announced the suspension of Moscow's participation in
the Soviet-era Conventional Forces in Europe treaty, which caps
the deployment of certain military equipment.


More than two-thirds of Czechs are opposed to the installation of
the targeting radar, according to a recent survey.


US President George W. Bush is expected to argue for the system
when he makes a visit to Prague in June.

