

South Korea was Wednesday to ship medical and other supplies
worth 1.41 million dollars to help North Korea fight malaria.


A freighter carrying supplies including anti-malaria medicines,
insecticide, test kits and mosquito nets will leave Incheon port
in the afternoon for the North's western port of Nampo, the
state-run Korea Centre for Disease Control and Prevention said.


The aid would help some five million residents in three provinces
near the inter-Korean border fight the disease, it said in a
statement.


The centre said it has financially supported the North's anti-
malaria campaigns for six years, with annual aid rising from
530,000 dollars in 2001 to 1.13 million dollars last year.


The number of malaria patients in the North has declined sharply
to 9,353 last year from 241,190 in 2002, it said.


There have also been outbreaks of scarlet fever, typhoid and
measles in recent months in the reclusive communist state, where
medicine is in short supply and years of malnutrition have
weakened resistance to disease.


UN relief agencies said last month they and the North's
authorities had completed a programme to vaccinate more than 16
million people against measles, after an outbreak which killed
four and infected 3,600.


Since December South Korean private groups have shipped
penicillin and antibiotics to North Korea, saying scarlet fever
and other communicable diseases are spreading fast.


Famine starting in the mid-1990s killed hundreds of thousands of
people. North Korea has received major foreign food aid since the
mid-1990s but its citizens still suffer persistent food
shortages.


The World Food Programme has warned that it faces a food
shortfall of one million tonnes this year, a fifth of its needs.

