

Japanese share prices ended with a gain of 0.69 percent Wednesday
after Wall Street notched up another record finish overnight and
the dollar hit a two-month high against the yen, dealers said.


They said, however, that trading was relatively quiet ahead of a
four-day holiday weekend in Tokyo with the market to re-open on
Monday.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index of leading shares
gained 119.94 points at 17,394.92.


The broader Topix index of all first-section shares added 10.97
points or   0.65 percent to 1,704.22.


Gainers outnumbered decliners 1,001 to 593, with 132 stocks flat.


Volume slipped to 1.71 billion shares from 1.79 billion on
Tuesday.


"Gains were underpinned by the upbeat tone on Wall Street
overnight which prompted market expectations that foreign
investors will buy Japanese shares," said Mitsushige Akino, chief
fund manager at Ichiyoshi Management.


"Also, the softer yen sparked buying," he said.


"But investors are also cautious about the movement of overseas
markets, particularly in the US and Europe, during the holiday in
Japan, especially (with) the US non-farm payrolls data due out
Friday," Akino added.


Friday's US employment report for April is expected to help shape
market expectations on US interest rates ahead of a US central
bank meeting on May 9.


Oil shares posted gains. Nippon Oil rose 32 yen or 3.5 percent to
956, Cosmo Oil was 13 yen or 2.6 percent higher at 517 and Showa
Shell added 17 yen or 1.2 percent to 1,446.


Among steelmakers, Nippon Steel advanced 15 yen or 1.9 percent to
812, Sumitomo Metal Industries gained 12 yen or 2.0 percent to
614 and JEF Holdings climbed 240 yen or 3.6 percent to 6,900.


On the foreign exchange market, the dollar climbed above 120 yen
briefly for the first time since late February before easing back
to 119.96 yen in Tokyo afternoon trade, up from 119.78 in New
York late Tuesday.


The euro eased to 1.3572 dollars after 1.3606 and to 162.81 yen
from 162.99.

