

Teenagers who suffer from chronic headaches or migraines have a
greater risk of suicide and psychiatric disorders, a recent study
found.


Researchers in Taiwan found that nearly half the teenagers who
suffered from chronic daily headaches had at least one
psychiatric disorder, with 21 percent having major depression and
19 percent having panic disorder.


Twenty percent of the teenagers with chronic headaches were
deemed to have a high risk of suicide.


"These numbers are much higher than those reported among the
general population of teens of the same ages in Taiwan," said
study author Shuu-Jiun Wang of the Taipei Veterans General
Hospital and National Yang-Ming University School of Medicine in
Taipei, Taiwan.


Teens who suffered from migraines were 3.5 times more likely to
have a psychiatric disorder, the researchers found.


Those whose migraines were preceded by a warming sensation, or
aura, were six times more likely to have a high risk of suicide
than those who did not get migraines.


While migraines, depression and the tendency toward suicide are
related to problems with the levels of serotonin in the brain,
scientists have not yet determined how they are linked.


However, these results show that parents and doctors should
monitor teens with chronic headaches, researchers said.


"Teens with chronic daily headache should be screened for
psychiatric disorders so they can get the treatment and help they
need," Wang said.


Wang and his colleagues surveyed 7,900 students aged 12 to 14 at
five middle schools in Taiwan.


Of those, 121 were diagnosed with chronic daily headaches, which
is defined as headaches which last two or more hours and occur 15
or more days per month for more than three months.


The study was published in the May 1 edition of Neurology.

