

Australia Wednesday played down a suggestion that it was a major
source of funds for Sri Lanka's Tamil Tigers, after two local
businessmen were charged with channelling money to the rebels.


The two Melbourne men have been accused of sending cash raised
under the guise of tsunami relief to the Liberation Tigers of
Tamil Eelam (LTTE), who have waged a bloody separatist war for 35
years.


Sri Lanka's secretary of foreign affairs Palitha Kohona said
Wednesday that up to 30 percent of the Tamil Tigers' external
funding was raised in Australia.


"In Australia there is a very well-made network of fundraisers
who are supporting the LTTE terrorists' activities in Sri Lanka,"
he told the Australian Broadcasting Corporation.


He estimated the Tigers raised 10-30 million US dollars a month
throughout the world, adding: "Approximately 20-30 percent of
that comes from Australia."


But Australian Foreign Minister Alexander Downer dismissed the
figure.


"I think that's probably an exaggeration," he told reporters.


"But we have been, for a long time, concerned that finance for
the Tamil Tigers, some of it comes from Australia -- probably
nothing like 30 percent -- but small amounts do come from
Australia."


It was difficult to collect evidence that money raised in
Australia for "so- called 'Tamil Welfare Causes'" was paid
directly to the Tamil Tigers, he said.


The two Melbourne businessmen, Aruran Vinayagamoorthy, 32, and
Sivarajah Yathavan, 36, were arrested after a series of raids in
Melbourne and Sydney.


Melbourne Magistrates' Court was told the pair faced three
charges each of being a member of a terrorist organisation,
providing support or resources to a terrorist organisation and
making funds available to a terrorist organisation.


They face a maximum of 25 years in jail.


The Tamil Tigers have waged a 35-year battle for independence
that has claimed more than 60,000 lives in Sri Lanka.

