

South Korean police Wednesday raided the office of a tycoon
suspected of involvement in a revenge attack after his son was
hurt in a bar brawl.


"Chairman Kim Seung-Young's office was searched by three
investigators this morning," Hanwha Group spokesman Chun Kyung-
Jae told AFP.


Police had raided Kim's home Tuesday, a day after the tycoon
denied his personal involvement in the attack during an 11-hour
interrogation.


Kim's 22-year-old son Dong-Won was also questioned Monday but
denied having used any violence.


The case has sparked a media outcry because of perceptions that
bosses of the country's mighty conglomerates, or chaebol, are
often above the law. Hanwha is the country's 10th largest group.


Kim, 55, whose personal fortune is estimated by Forbes magazine
at 800 million dollars, has apologised but maintained he did not
personally use violence.


Police have vowed to seek an arrest warrant for Kim and others
involved in the attack. The incident began on March 8 when Kim's
son, a Yale University student, received 10 stitches to his face
after falling downstairs in a brawl with Seoul bar workers.


His father and bodyguards allegedly stormed another bar that
evening in a revenge attack on people, mostly bar employees,
involved in the incident.


Local newspapers say the bodyguards and the elder Kim failed to
find the person who directly assaulted Kim's son. They then
allegedly abducted and beat up four other bar workers at a
construction site.


According to a police report, the four victims say they were
beaten by the elder Kim himself. They say he hit them on the back
with a steel pipe and kicked them in the face and body scores of
times.

