

Two Tamil civilians and 13 Tamil Tiger rebels were killed in
northern Sri Lanka as the country marked the holiest Buddhist
anniversary, military officials said on Wednesday.


Unidentified gunmen short dead the two civilians on Tuesday
night, the start of the Wesak festival marking the birth,
enlightenment and death of the Buddha more than 2,500 years ago,
officials said.


Their bullet-riddled bodies were found on Wednesday in Vavuniya,
a town in the north and close to the frontline with Tamil Tiger
rebel-controlled territory.


The defence ministry said 10 Tiger rebels were killed in
skirmishes with security forces in Mannar while another three
were killed in Weli Oua on Tuesday. The ministry did not say if
troops suffered any casualties.


There was no immediate comment from the Tigers on the defence
ministry claims.


The latest killings came a day after the defence ministry
reported 12 people were killed in two separate incidents in the
northeast on Monday.


The violence followed an air attack by Tamil Tiger light aircraft
in the capital Colombo.


A fuel storage tank owned jointly by the government and the
Indian Oil Company was destroyed while two buildings of Shell Gas
Lanka, the local unit of the Anglo-Dutch giant, also suffered
fire damage on Sunday, officials said.


The Tigers staged their first ever air strike last month and
followed it with a second last week on the Palaly military
complex in the north of the country.


Police and security forces sealed off Colombo last Saturday,
searching every vehicle entering and leaving the city amid fears
of a rebel attack.


The Tigers are believed to operate five Czech-built Zlin-143
aircraft smuggled onto the island in pieces and re-assembled,
government officials say.


The rebels are fighting for an independent homeland for Sri
Lanka's minority Tamil community. The conflict has killed more
than 60,000 people over some three decades.

