

Liverpool star Harry Kewell has played his first match since the
World Cup finals and Australian coach Graham Arnold said he
looked fantastic, buoying hopes he will be fit for the Asian Cup
finals.


Kewell made a 30-minute appearance off the bench for Liverpool
reserves against Everton in north Wales on Monday and Arnold, who
was there, was upbeat about what he saw.


"Physically, he looked fantastic," he told the Sydney Morning
Herald.


"Liverpool had made it clear they wouldn't let him back on the
park until he matched all his old test results, and he looked as
good as I've ever seen him.


"It was just great to see him back on the field. He moved around
very well, and this was a big stepping stone for him."


The midfielder, 28, had not played since the World Cup in Germany
last year, but has recuperated from off-season surgeries on foot,
ankle and groin ailments.


He will now hope to play some part in Liverpool's remaining games
of the season, which include the Champions League final in Athens
after his side's penalties victory over Chelsea on Tuesday.


Despite his encouraging return, Arnold remains cautious as to
whether he will be ready for Australia's Asian Cup opener against
Oman in Bangkok on July 8.


"Harry's done a lot of work to get to this stage, now it's all
about getting some match fitness under his belt," he told the
paper.


"Look, there's a lot of water to go under the bridge before then.
I don't know what Liverpool have in mind for him for the rest of
the season, but the next three weeks will be crucial to see how
he goes."

