

Thailand's military-installed Prime Minister Surayud Chulanont
said Wednesday that he has tasked the southern army commander
with studying details of a proposed amnesty for Islamic
militants.


Surayud said the regional commander would work out details of a
plan to grant amnesty to militants who defect to the government
side, in the latest effort to end three years of bloody unrest.


"The southern army commander initiated the amnesty plan. I have
asked him to study it in detail and to submit his plan to the
government," Surayud told reporters.


Thailand announced the proposal late Tuesday, during a visit by
the leader of the world's largest grouping of Muslim nations.


Surayud told Ekmeleddin Ihsanoglu, the head of the Organisation
of the Islamic Conference (OIC), that he would offer the amnesty
in a bid to ease the violence along the southern border with
Malaysia.


Major General Chamlong Khunsong, the southern army region chief
of staff, said the army would hold public consultations on the
amnesty.


"The army has to sound out the public reaction. This bill would
not be universally applied, but only affect defectors so that
they will be protected," he told AFP.


Chamlong admitted that the amnesty could be a tough sell if
violence continues to rage in the region where more than 2,100
have been killed over the last three years.


"Currently, the violence is not getting any better," he said.


Thailand's junta leader, General Sonthi Boonyaratglin, has
opposed the amnesty plan and has yet to speak out on Surayud's
latest proposal.


Security forces in the region are immune from prosecution under a
state of emergency that has been in effect for nearly two years.


Even if an amnesty is extended to defectors, that may not keep
them safe.


A 53-year-old Muslim man who had defected to the government was
shot dead at his home in Narathiwat province late Tuesday, police
said.

