

Dirk Nowitzki scored 30 points and Josh Howard added 23 as Dallas
stayed in contention in their first-round playoff series against
Golden State with a 118-112 win in game five on Tuesday.


Devin Harris had 16 points and Jerry Stackhouse added 15 off the
bench for Dallas, which erased a nine-point lead in the final
three minutes to temporarily avoided one of the most shocking
upsets in NBA history.


Dallas is trying to avoid becoming the first No. 1 seed to lose
in a seven-game series and just the third all-time.


"Just being more aggressive helped us out a lot," said Dallas
coach Avery Johnson.


The Mavericks, who won a league-high 67 games during regular
season, were toppled twice on the road in games three and four to
fall behind 3-1 in series.


The Mavericks appeared to be done when Baron Davis, who finished
with 27 points and nine assists, drilled a three-pointer from the
arc to give the Warriors a 112-103 lead with 3:26 left.


Jason Richardson scored 23 points and Stephen Jackson and Matt
Barnes each added 16 for Golden State, which shot 47 percent
(39-of-83). France's Mickael Pietrus finished with 11 points and
10 rebounds.


Dallas went on a 15-0 run to end the contest, including 12 by
Nowitzki, who was called out before the game by Johnson for not
being aggressive enough in the two playoff defeats in Oakland.


Nowitzki, a leading candidate for regular-season MVP honors,
nailed the second of his consecutive three-pointers to bring the
Mavericks to within 112-109 with 2:05 left.


Harris scored on a layup to bring Dallas to within one, 112-111,
before Nowitzki drilled two from the charity stripe to put the
Mavericks in front, 113-112, with 48 seconds left.


"Devin was more aggressive and that is something we talked about
while watching film. Hopefully he will be just as aggressive next
game," Johnson said.


Dallas made five more free throws to close out the game,
including one due to a technical foul by Jackson. It was the
second ejection of the series for Jackson and it will cost him
dearly.


"Jackson will be fined a substantial amount for getting thrown
out," Warriors coach Don Nelson said. "He's going to have to
figure it out that you just don't do that."


Seattle lost to Denver in five games in 1994 and the Miami Heat
also lost in five games to eight seed New York in 1999.


Dallas began the game highly charged, as Howard and Nowitzki each
had eight points in the first quarter to help the Mavericks take
a 38-28 lead into the second period.

