

Iran is capable of mass-producing centrifuges to enrich uranium,
an advisor to supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei said on
Wednesday, reaffirming Tehran would not yield in the standoff
with the West.


"Today we can mass-produce centrifuges while in the past we had
difficulties to even make a single centrifuge," Ali Akbar
Velayati, the top foreign policy advisor to Khamenei, told the
state-run IRNA agency.


Iran last month already announced it had reached an "industrial
stage" of uranium enrichment and also said then it was able to
mass produce centrifuges at its key nuclear plant in the central
city of Natanz.


Velayati, a hugely influential former foreign minister, also
confirmed data from the UN atomic agency that Iran has at least
1,300 centrifuges at the plant, the first time an Iranian
official has given such information.


"The Westerners have recognised that we have manufactured 1,300
centrifuges," he said.


Western powers have threatened to impose a third set of UN
sanctions against Iran if it fails to suspend uranium enrichment
by late this month, but Velayati indicated Tehran would not give
ground.


"If we yield on the nuclear issue, tomorrow they will target our
advances in the ballistic missile area and say for example that
we do not have the right to produce such a kind of missile,"
Velayati continued.


Centrifuges spin at supersonic speeds to enrich uranium, a
process that is hugely sensitive as it can be used both to make
nuclear fuel and atomic weapons.


The United States accuses Iran of seeking nuclear weapons but
Tehran insists that it only wants to produce energy for a growing
population.

