

Malaysian Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi will meet his
Singapore counterpart Lee Hsien Loong this month to boost ties
and tackle unsettled issues, reports said Wednesday.


The leaders will hold an informal one-day retreat on May 15 on
Malaysia's northern tourist island of Langkawi, the New Straits
Times reported.


Foreign Minister Syed Hamid Albar said bilateral ties were "at
their best" but noted outstanding matters that have dragged on
for years.


"We must find new approaches to settle these issues in a cordial
atmosphere, though they are not the basis for the meeting," Syed
Hamid was quoted as saying in the newspaper.


"It is a chance for both leaders to meet and talk without the
pressures of an agenda," he said.


Relations have often been stormy since Singapore was ejected from
the Malaysian federation in 1965 over ethnic issues but they have
undergone a marked improvement in recent years, especially in
economic cooperation.


Among the outstanding issues are the price of water supplied to
Singapore, the future of Malaysian-owned railway land in
Singapore and rival territorial claims to a rocky islet off
Malaysia's southern Johor state.


Syed Hamid said the claims on the small island are expected to be
heard by the International Court of Justice in The Hague in
November, and that the countries will abide by the court's
decision.


"We hope the issue can be settled soon. Both countries will
accept the ICJ's verdict on the dispute," he was quoted as saying
by the state Bernama news agency.


Singapore's delegation is expected to include the country's
foreign, transport and defence ministers, Syed Hamid said.

