

The number of terror suspects being monitored by Britain's
domestic security agency, MI5, has risen by 25 percent in the
last six months, BBC online reported Wednesday.


The approximately 2,000 people now being watched are thought to
be actively involved in supporting Al-Qaeda, the broadcaster
reported, and experts highlighted links which some have to
terrorist training camps in Pakistan.


"I think this is the strongest connection that we are confronted
with at the moment, not least because of the historical
connections between Pakistan and Britain," Peter Neumann, from
King's College London's defence studies centre, told the
broadcaster.


"This is most likely to be the greatest source of vulnerability
-- at least for Britain."


In March, finance minister Gordon Brown announced that Britain's
security services -- MI5 plus its foreign security counterpart
MI6 and the Government Communications Headquarters (GCHQ)
"listening post" -- would receive an extra 86.4 million pounds
(127.2 million euros, 169.3 million dollars) this year.


This means that Britain's total annual security budget is now
2.25 billion pounds, more than double the figure before the
September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in the United States.


Last November, Dame Eliza Manningham-Buller, the then head of MI5
who retired last month, said that the agency was tracking 1,600
suspects from 200 groups, most with ties to Al-Qaeda.


Nearly 30 terror plots were under investigation, she added.


According to MI5, Britain currently faces a "severe" risk from
terrorism. This is the second-highest rating and means there is a
"serious and sustained threat" from international terrorism.

