

South Korea's top automaker Hyundai Motor said Wednesday its net
profit dropped in the first quarter to March as higher raw
material costs and a stronger won undercut sales.


Net profit fell 10.2 percent year-on-year to 307.4 billion won
(323 million dollars) in the first quarter.


Sales dropped 2.6 percent year-on-year to 6.68 trillion won, with
operating profit down 13 percent to 291.4 billion won during the
period.


The firm said it expects profitability to improve in the second
quarter.    In April Hyundai Motor's sales came to 225,178, up
10.4 percent from a year earlier.


Hyundai along with affiliate Kia Motors is the world's sixth-
largest automaker. Kia reported April sales of 118,530, up 11.9
percent year-on-year.


"Hyundai Motor is overcoming a number of difficulties, including
a firmer won, a weaker yen and volatile oil prices," Chung Tae-
Hwan, an executive vice president, was quoted by Yonhap news
agency as saying.


He said he expects such unfavourable conditions to continue
weighing on earnings in the near future.


The stronger won makes cars more expensive overseas and cuts
foreign earnings when they are converted into won.


"The effects of foreign exchange concerns as well as a slush fund
scandal continue to deter investment sentiment on Hyundai Motor,"
Kang Sang-Min, an analyst at Tong Yang Investment Bank, told
Yonhap.


A court sentenced Hyundai Motor chairman Chung Mong-Koo to three
years in jail in February for breach of trust and embezzling 90
billion won in company funds through fraudulent accounting.


Chung, 68, who is free on bail, has appealed the ruling.


On the South Korean bourse, Hyundai Motor closed up 3.88 percent
at 61,600 on the stronger April sales figure and its results
which were above market forecasts.

