

The opinion poll lead held by the Scottish National Party, which
has promised a referendum on independence if elected, over the
governing Labour Party has narrowed ahead of an election for the
Scottish parliament on Thursday, a survey showed.


According to the ICM poll published by The Guardian, support for
the SNP rose two percentage points to 34 percent in constituency
elections compared to a similar survey last month, while backing
for Labour rose five points to 32 percent.


Because the Scottish parliament is elected by a partially
proportional representation voting system, voters have two
ballots -- one for their local constituency representative, and
another for a wider regional representative.


Support for the Liberal Democrats, who have formed a coalition
government with Labour in Scotland since 1999, dropped three
points in the constituency poll to 16 percent, while the
Conservatives were on 13 percent.


Meanwhile, in the poll of regional voting intentions, the SNP is
on 30 percent, while Labour is right behind on 29 percent. The
Liberal Democrats are third on 16 percent.


The Guardian said that if those results were replicated in
Thursday's election, Labour may win the most overall seats in the
Scottish parliament, despite having been trailing the SNP for
most of the campaign.


The poll also showed that, were voters given a simple choice
between independence for Scotland or remaining part of Britain,
55 percent back the status quo, while 38 percent want
independence.


Given devolved powers in 1999, the Scottish Parliament controls
policy in Scotland over issues such as health and education, but
lawmakers in London retain control over such things as defence,
foreign affairs and major economic issues.


British parties are also contesting elections Thursday to English
local councils and the Welsh regional assembly.


ICM Research questioned 1,014 Scots by telephone between April 27
and 30 for the survey.

