

Two Tamil civilians have been shot dead in northern Sri Lanka as
the country marked the holiest Buddhist anniversary with
nationwide religious services, officials said Wednesday.


Unidentified gunmen committed the murders on Tuesday night, the
start of the Wesak festival marking the birth, enlightenment and
passing of the Buddha more than 2500 years ago, police officials
said.


They said the bullet-riddled bodies were found in Vavuniya, a
town in the north and close to the frontline with Tamil Tiger
rebel-controlled territory, on Wednesday.


The latest killings came a day after the defence ministry
reported that 12 people had been killed in two separate incidents
in the island's northeast on Monday.


The violence followed an air attack by Tamil Tiger light aircraft
in the capital Colombo.


A fuel storage tank owned jointly by the government and the
Indian Oil Company was destroyed while two buildings of Shell Gas
Lanka, the local unit of the Anglo-Dutch giant, also suffered
fire damage on Sunday, officials said.


The Tigers carried out their first ever air strike last month and
followed it with a second last week on the Palaly military
complex in the north of the country.


Police and security forces sealed off Colombo last Saturday,
searching every vehicle entering and leaving the city amid fears
of a rebel attack.


The Tigers are believed to be operating five Czech-built Zlin-143
aircraft smuggled onto the island in pieces and re-assembled,
government officials say.


The rebels are fighting for an independent homeland for Sri
Lanka's minority Tamil community. The conflict has killed more
than 60,000 people over some three decades.

