

China has formally banned trading in human organs state media
reported Wednesday amid ongoing allegations that the nation is
heavily involved in harvesting body parts from executed
prisoners.


The regulations, issued by the State Council, or China's cabinet,
prohibit all organisations and individuals from trading human
organs in any form, the Xinhua news agency said.


Any doctor found to be involved in such activities will have
their licences revoked, while clinics or hospitals will be
suspended from doing organ transplant operations for at least
three years, it said.


Fines have been set at between eight to ten times the value of
the outlawed trade and officials convicted of trading in human
organs will be sacked and kicked out of the government, the
regulations said.


International human rights groups have long accused China of
harvesting organs from executed prisoners for transplant without
the consent of the prisoner or his or her family.


Hospitals have also been regularly accused of secretly taking
organs from road accident victims and other dead patients without
telling family members.


The government has denied such charges, saying most organs are
voluntarily donated by ordinary citizens and executed criminals
who gave consent before their deaths.


Foreign patients facing a shortage of compatible organs in their
home countries have flocked to China where organs are more
plentiful and surgical costs cheaper, Xinhua said.


The country is the world's second largest performer of
transplants after the United States, with about 5,000 operations
carried out each year.


But China also faces a gap between demand and supply of
functional organs, it said.


About 1.5 million patients need transplants each year, but only
10,000 find organs, the report said, without explaining the
discrepancy with the annual number of operations.


The new rules do not apply to transplants of human tissue such as
cells, corneas or bone marrow.

