

Democratic leaders of Congress Tuesday warned President George W.
Bush they would not abandon their bid to bring troops home from
Iraq, despite his veto of their troop withdrawal timeline.


"The President may be content with keeping our troops mired in
the middle of an open-ended civil war, but we are not and neither
are most Americans," said Senate Majority leader Harry Reid.


"If the President thinks by vetoing this bill he will stop us
working to change the direction of the war in Iraq, he is
mistaken," Reid told reporters minutes after Bush wielded his
veto.


Nancy Pelosi, speaker of the House of Representatives, said that
Bush was mistaken in his belief that progress is being made in
Iraq, as his plan unfolds to surge more troops into the war-torn
country.


"The President wants a blank check, the Congress is not going to
give it to him," said Pelosi.


"There is great distance between us right now."


Bush earlier vetoed a 124 billion dollar bill which tied future
funding of the war to a timeline to bring most combat troops home
in 2008, defying Democratic foes exactly four years after he
declared major combat over in the war-torn country.


"Members of the House and Senate passed a bill that substitues
the opinions of politicians for the judgment of our military
commanders, so a few minutes ago, I vetoed the bill," Bush said.


"Setting a deadline for withdrawal is setting a date for failure,
and that would be irresponsible," he said.


Despite their warnings to Bush, both Pelosi and Reid said that
they were prepared to work with him in an effort to find a way to
continue funding US troops. Democrats in Congress do not have
sufficient votes to override a presidential veto.


Some Democrats have raised the prospect of linking funding to
specific and rigorous benchmarks for political progress that
Iraqi leaders would be required to meet.

