

Attorneys for Israel's President Moshe Katsav on Wednesday were
due to present his defence on charges including rape before the
attorney general, a justice ministry spokesman said.


"Mr Katsav's lawyers will defend their client during a hearing
with Attorney General Menahem Mazuz due to start at 11:00 am
(0800 GMT) at the justice ministry," he told AFP.


Mazuz has said he intends to indict the president -- who is
currently on leave from his largely ceremonial post -- on a slew
of charges including rape, sexual harassment, abuse of power,
breach of trust and accepting bribes.


Wednesday's hearing is Katsav's sole opportunity to defend
himself before the attorney general decides whether to press
ahead with the charges. The 61-year- old president took a leave
of absence in late January.


Rape in Israel carries a maximum sentence of 16 years in prison.
Although Katsav temporarily suspended himself from duty, he
currently retains immunity from prosecution. His mandate expires
in July.


Katsav has insisted he is innocent and rejected intense pressure
from the Israeli public and politicians of all persuasions to
resign.


He faces the prospect of becoming the country's second
consecutive president to be forced from office by scandal, ending
his career in disgrace and perhaps prison.


His predecessor, the late Ezer Weizman, was forced to resign in
2000 after revelations that he received around 450,000 dollars
from French millionaire Edouard Saroussi in the 1980s when
Weizman was an MP and minister.

