

Sir Alex Ferguson hit out at Chelsea counterpart Jose Mourinho
for snobbish comments made about star Portugal winger Cristiano
Ronaldo.


The Manchester United boss, whose team are battling Chelsea on
three fronts this season, described Mourinho's comments about
Ronaldo's working class roots as 'below the belt'.


Fergie is a staunch Labour supporter and there are few topics
that can cause him greater consternation than derogatory comments
about his working class roots.


The row between Mourinho and his compatriot, who last week was
named PFA player and young player of the year, began when the
Chelsea boss claimed penalties are never awarded against United,
something the 22-year-old disputed.


Mourinho then branded Ronaldo a liar and followed that up at the
weekend by saying: "Maybe it's about a difficult childhood, no
education."


That angered Ferguson, though.


"It is really below the belt to bring class into it.


"I don't know why he has done this. Maybe he is trying to
unsettle the boy.


"Just because you come from a poor, working-class background does
not mean to say you are not educated.


"What Ronaldo has are principles - that is why he has not
responded to it. Other people are educated but have no
principles."


Mourinho and Ronaldo both grew up in Portugal, but while the
former Porto boss came from a middle-class background in the
citry of Setubal, Ronaldo is from the working-class district of
Funchal in the Madeira Islands.


United are due to face Chelsea in the league next Wednesday -
United could already have taken Chelsea's title by then if
results go their way this weekend - then in the FA Cup final on
May 19 at the new Wembley and possibly in the Champions League
final in Athens four days later.

