

An Australian senator on Wednesday stood by his claim that the
country's top female opposition politician would be an inept
prime minister because she is childless.


Bill Heffernan, a close friend of Prime Minister John Howard,
admitted his comments about Labor Party deputy leader Julia
Gillard were uncouth.


But he told The Bulletin magazine he would not retreat from the
remarks he made last year, when he said that because Gillard was
"deliberately barren" she was unable to connect with the public.


"I won't walk away from that," he said.


"So rude, crude and unattractive as it was ... if you're a
leader, you've got to understand your community.


"One of the great understandings in a community is family, and
the relationship between mum, dads and a bucket of nappies."


Gillard, a former lawyer who would become deputy prime minister
should Labor win power in this year's election, dismissed
Heffernan as irrelevant.


"Mr Heffernan, a bit like the Howard government overall, is a man
who is stuck in the past. I will get on with my life and Mr
Heffernan can make whatever comments he likes," she said.


The prime minister brushed off calls for him to discipline
Heffernan but distanced himself from the remark, saying whether
or not a politician had children was not an issue.


"Bill is a very good friend of mine and he remains a very dear
friend of mine, but on something like this he's not speaking for
me or for the government," Howard told Sky News.


The Labor Party attacked Heffernan's comments as backward and
outlandish.


"Senator Heffernan's comments are rude and insulting to women,"
Labor frontbencher Jenny Macklin said.


"I'm sure the prime minister would not want such a comment made
about Helen Clark, the Prime Minister of New Zealand, or any
other woman. It's just not correct or helpful."

