

Australian share prices jumped 1.5 percent to a fresh all-time
high Wednesday after another record performance on Wall Street
overnight lifted the market, dealers said.


They said the central bank's decision to leave interest on hold
at 6.25 percent added to the momentum driven by Wall Street where
stocks got a solid boost from better-than-expected US
manufacturing data.


The benchmark SP/ASX 200 closed up 91.9 points at 6,237.7,
beating the previous record set on April 18. The All Ordinaries
also topped its previous best, adding 84.3 points to close at
6,224.5.


Turnover was 1.62 billion shares worth 6.47 billion dollars (5.4
billion US), with 718 stocks up, 488 down and 401 unchanged.


"(The data) has eased some of the concerns that the US might be
heading for a recession and, of course, the US economy growing is
very positive for the Asia region and that's why it has been
embraced (Wednesday)," CommSec chief economist Craig James said.


James said the local market made its best one-day gain since mid-
April following a period of consolidation.


"I think investors are also concluding that the big picture
environment remains pretty positive, with interest rates on hold
here domestically and the economy in good shape plus the fact
that the US economy looks as though it still has room to grow,"
James said.


In the resources sector, BHP Billiton climbed 0.61 dollars or
2.09 percent to finish at 29.76 dollars and Rio Tinto rose 1.60
or 1.79 percent to 82.75.


Among the banks, National Australia Bank rose 0.86 to 43.81,
Commonwealth Bank climbed 0.88 to a record close of 53.64, ANZ
jumped 0.39 to 30.79 and Westpac advanced 0.34 to 27.54


Telstra gained 0.09 to 4.85 and Optus-owner SingTel added 0.01 to
2.70.


Qantas rose 0.04 to 5.34 as Friday's expiry for a private equity
consortium's takeover bid for the airline loomed. Discount rival
Virgin Blue was up 0.01 at 2.70.

