

US news-seekers are increasingly turning to Internet search
engines, video clips and gossip-slingers to sate curiosity about
current events, according to a study released Tuesday.


Visits to the top 10 news and media websites in the United States
dropped by nearly four percent in the past year as people turned
increasingly to "non- traditional news websites," Hitwise online
intelligence service reported.


Meanwhile, websites that "aggregate" news stories by harvesting
them online registered increases in visits during the year ending
March of 2007, according to Hitwise.


Yahoo! News ranks as the top news website with slightly more than
6.5 percent of the market.


A Weather Channel website is second with 4.75 percent of US
online news hunting traffic, while CNN barely edged out MSNBC for
third place with 3.95 percent.


Google News ranks fourth in popularity with 1.83 percent of the
visits.


Search engines, online news aggregators and Internet portal front
pages are main sources of traffic for traditional news websites,
according to Hitwise.


The number of Internet users referred to traditional newspaper
websites by the world's most popular online search engine,
Google, increased by nearly 30 percent in the past year, Hitwise
reported.


Internet traffic routed by Google to television or radio station
websites rose 35.9 percent during that same period, according to
Hitwise.


The rate at which people left news websites to directly view
related video clips at online venues such as video-sharing
website YouTube has leapt 196 percent in the past year, Hitwise
reported.

