

A demand by China, India and Brazil that rich nations accept that
they are mainly responsible for global warming has held up
progress at a key UN climate change conference here, delegates
said Wednesday.


The three nations' insistence since the talks started on Monday
that the developed world recognise their dominant role in climate
change has taken up precious time meant for debate on how best to
tackle global warming, they said.


"Progress is slow," one delegate from a European nation, who
asked not to be identified, told AFP.


"Brazil, India and China are trying to put on the shoulders of
industrialised nations the historic responsibility for greenhouse
gas emissions, in order to clear their own emissions (of blame)
and to protect themselves in any discussion."


At least 400 scientists and experts from about 120 countries are
attending the week-long third session of the Intergovernmental
Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), the UN's leading authority on
global warming.


Their report, expected to be released at the end of their meeting
on Friday, aims to lay out ways to reduce greenhouse gas
emissions and prevent a climate catastrophe without seriously
hurting the global economy.


But China has also insisted on specific figures, which lay the
blame for global warming on rich nations, be inserted into the
conclusions, according to documents obtained by AFP.


Developed countries should formally recognise that they were
responsible for 95 percent of greenhouse gas emissions from the
pre-industrial era to 1950, and for 77 percent from 1950 to 2000,
according to China's submission to the IPCC.


One of the French delegates, Renaud Crassous, said China was
proving to be a dominant force in this week's talks.


"China is distrustful regarding everything that could draw a
conclusion that it is easy to reduce emissions," Crassous said.

