

The first shipment of mangoes from India in 18 years arrived in
the United States Tuesday under a deal to end a long ban on the
fruit.


India has been pushing to resume exports of its mangoes to the
United States ever since they were banned in 1989 over problems
with pests such as fruit flies and weevils.


Ceremonies in Washington featured Indian officials and
restaurateurs presenting the mangoes to US officials.


US Trade Representative Susan Schwab and Agriculture Secretary
Mike Johanns each received from Indian Ambassador Ronen Sen the
first gift baskets of Indian King Alphonso mangoes.


"This is an important symbolic as well as substantive move. We
think we have the best mangoes in the world," Sen told reporters.


"It should be a tangible benefit for Indian farmers," he added.


US President George W. Bush and Prime Minister Manmohan Singh
signed a deal in New Delhi in March 2006 to promote trade in
agriculture that paved the way for the mango exports.


"US willingness to purchase Indian mangoes is another important
step towards deeper engagement and more robust US-India trade,"
said Ron Somers, president of the US-India Business Council.


"As our commercial and strategic partnership deepens, two-way
trade will soon reach new levels, creating hundreds of thousands
of jobs in India and thousands of jobs here at home."


India is the world's largest producer of mangoes with 12 million
metric tons harvested each year, but it accounts for less than
one percent of the global mango trade.


America's taste for mangoes is growing -- with US demand 99
percent dependent on imports mostly from Mexico and South America
at 250,000 metric tons annually.


The mango opening highlighted a push by both the United States
and India to double two-way trade to 60 billion dollars annually
over the next two years.

