

Australian coach Graham Arnold said his trip to Europe to discuss
the availability of players for July's Asian Cup finals was a big
success with an overwhelmingly positive response.


Arnold and team manager Gary Moretti spent a week meeting with
domestic club managers including Everton's David Moyes,
Middlesbrough's Gareth Southgate, Liverpool's Rafa Benitez and
Blackburn chief Mark Hughes.


Arnold described the mission as one "of the best things we've
ever done", clearing the way for him to name a first-choice squad
for the tournament co- hosted by Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand
and Vietnam.


"We haven't had one knockback from anyone," he told the Sydney
Morning Herald.


"All the managers I've spoken to have been appreciative of us
coming over there and explaining our programme.


"We've told them about the games coming up, we've told them about
our training program and our sports science, and for the first
time I think they really understand what we're on about.


"For instance, we went in to see David Moyes, and for the first
five minutes we went through what has happened in the past
regarding Timmy [Cahill].


"He had a bit to say, we took it on board and we agreed to move
on. We thought we'd be in there for 20 minutes, and he gave us
two hours. It's been the same everywhere. This trip has been a
massive breakthrough."


Everton's Cahill, Middlesbrough trio Mark Viduka, Mark Schwarzer
and Brad Jones, Liverpool's Harry Kewell and Blackburn's Brett
Emerton were top of Arnold's list of high-profile players whose
availability he wanted to secure.


Socceroos also play their trade elsewhere in Europe, including
Mark Bresciano at Palermo, Vince Grella at Parma, and Jason
Culina at PSV Eindhoven.


Australia, one of the favourites to win the Asian Cup in their
first ever appearance, are in Group A alongside Iraq, Thailand
and Oman.

