

Despite accelerating inflation, rising wages and strong gross
domestic product growth, Poland's economy is not overheating, the
country's finance minister said in an interview published
Wednesday.


Speaking to the Financial Times, Zyta Gilowska also said that the
country was on track to join the euro in 2012 as planned, but was
unlikely to be ready beforehand.


"The economy is beginning to develop like something out of a
textbook," Gilowska told the business daily.


"We are in a classical phase of growth ... You cannot talk about
overheating."


Poland's central bank raised interest rates by a quarter-point
late last month, the first rise in the cost of borrowing in 13
months, after wages surged 9.0 percent in the past 12 months, and
inflation quickened to 2.5 percent in March from 1.9 percent in
February.


The economy ministry also predicted late in April that GDP would
grow by seven percent in the first half of the year.


The central bank said the decision to raise interest rates had
been driven by strong economic growth and significant wage
increases.


Gilowska also said that 2012, the same year Poland hosts the
European football championship, will be the likely entry year for
Poland into the euro, but warned that the tournament could spark
inflationary pressure.


"Today we see no serious barriers to entering the eurozone in
that year (2012), in fact it is the first very likely date," she
was quoted as saying by the paper.


"The intensive preparations for the Euro 2012 championship could
unleash an economic risk that is currently difficult to predict
and quantify," she added.


The finance minister added that it remains to be seen "if there
is a will to reform in parliament," referring to a reform before
the legislature that would cut the country's employment taxes,
and thereby government revenues.

