

Oil prices were higher in Asian trade Wednesday on concerns over
tight US gasoline (petrol) supplies ahead of the US summer
driving season, dealers said.


At 1:50 pm (0550 GMT), New York's main contract, light sweet
crude for June delivery, was up 20 cents to 64.60 US dollars a
barrel from its close of 64.40 dollars in late US trades Tuesday.


Brent North Sea crude for June delivery was up 35 cents to 67.35
dollars.


"I think the ... market remains underpinned by concerns over US
gasoline supplies and is looking ahead of the inventory data out
of the US," said Victor Shum, a Singapore-based analyst with
energy consultancy Purvin and Gertz.


"The general expectation is gasoline inventories will again show
a drawdown and that will remain the over-riding issue driving the
market."


The US Department of Energy (DoE) is to release later Wednesday
its weekly update on the state of energy stockpiles and other oil
reserves in the world's largest oil consumer.


Figures last week showed US gasoline reserves declined 2.8
million barrels in the week ending April 20, against market
forecasts of a fall of just 500,000 barrels. It was the 11th
consecutive weekly drop in gasoline reserves.


"We have a situation in (gasoline) inventory that is the lowest
level we have seen in a number of years in the US," said Shum.


The US summer driving season starts at the end of May when many
Americans take to the road for their vacation so gasoline
supplies take on an added importance at this time of year.


Meanwhile, US crude oil inventories increased 2.1 million barrels
last week, which confounded analysts' forecasts for a decrease of
1.5 million barrels.


Dealers said concerns remain too over the latest kidnappings of
foreigners in Nigeria, the world's sixth-biggest oil exporter.


Nigerian militants Tuesday seized four Italians, a US national
and a Croatian oil worker from a floating storage vessel in the
country's volatile oil-rich south and warned of further
kidnappings.

