

Australia's central bank on Wednesday left interest rates on hold
at 6.25 percent following a surprise easing of inflationary
pressures.


The Reserve Bank of Australia is now likely to leave interest
rates unchanged for the rest of 2007 with inflation expected to
fall below the central bank's 2.0 to 3.0 percent target in the
coming quarters, economists said.


Australia's cash rate has been left unchanged since November last
year.


The central's bank's decision came after official figures last
week revealed that the consumer price index (CPI) in the three
months to March rose just 0.1 percent from the previous quarter
and was up 2.4 percent year-on-year.


Those figures quashed more than a month of frenzied speculation
of a 0.25 percentage point interest rate hike following
indications of inflationary pressure and sparked a major shift in
market expectations.


"With inflation pressures surprising on the downside in the past
two quarters, we suspect monetary policy will remain on hold over
the middle of 2007," said ANZ Bank senior analyst Paul Braddick.


But some economists noted that despite some soft data, the
reserve bank was still maintaining a tightening bias, meaning
that if rates do change this year, they are more likely to go up
than down.


"We still believe the view is the next move is up rather than
down," said Citigroup senior economist Annette Beacher.


"It's just that the hurdles for tightening are pretty high at the
moment," she said, adding that although inflation was weaker than
expected in the March quarter, it was unlikely the RBA based its
decision on one set of data.


The reserve bank made no formal statement on its decision, but it
will release its quarterly monetary policy statement on Friday,
which could provide clues to its thinking on the inflation and
interest rate outlook.

