

Philippine environmentalists protested outside the Japanese
embassy in Manila Wednesday to denounce a free trade deal they
claim could lead to the dumping of toxic waste here.


The protesters, led by Greenpeace volunteers and local toxic
waste campaigners, unfurled a banner saying "Asia is not Japan's
waste colony."


They said they would send a petition to Japanese Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe urging him to review the Japan-Philippine Economic
Partnership Agreement (JPEPA).


They claimed that the JPEPA would legalise the entry of hazardous
waste into the Philippines that goes against the global
convention on shipments of toxic materials.


"We oppose the insertion of toxic items, many of which are
globally banned or restricted, in Japan's economic agreements
with neighbouring countries," said Manny Calonzo of the Global
Alliance for Incinerator Alternatives, a group that promotes eco-
friendly waste policies.


The JPEPA was signed by Arroyo and the then Japanese prime
minister Junichiro Koizumi on the sidelines of a summit in
Helsinki in September.


Tokyo says the deal was a first because it included provisions on
the movement of labour while removing tariffs on more than 90
percent of goods traded between the two countries.


Greenpeace and other environmentalists however warned that the
deal involved provisions allowing shipment of waste across
borders.


The Philippine Senate has yet to ratify the treaty, which came
under heavy legislative scrutiny last year.


The Japanese government meanwhile has said it would observe
global conventions on hazardous waste, but has not denied the
Greenpeace claim outright.

