

India Tuesday called for the swift resumption of democracy in
neighboring Bangladesh but endorsed reforms being pushed through
by the military-backed government.


"We would like to see the restoration of democracy in Bangladesh
as soon as possible," Indian Foreign Secretary Shivshankar Menon
told reporters after nuclear talks with top US officials.


"We want a peaceful, stable, moderate Bangladesh. That's in our
interest," he said, noting that the country figured in a
discussion on regional issues with Nicholas Burns, the US under
secretary of state for political affairs.


But Menon added: "The present caretaker government is doing
things that need to be done." He cited work to clean up
Bangladesh's fraud-riddled electoral roll.


"We will, as a good neighbor, work with Bangladesh to try to
address the problems that we have," the Indian official said,
detailing development, extremism and water resources.


Bangladesh's interim government came to power in January after
the president canceled polls and imposed a state of emergency.


The country's major political parties on Monday demanded early
elections, turning up the heat on the military-backed government
less than a week after it backtracked on plans to exile their
leaders, Khaleda Zia and Sheikh Hasina.


Authorities have been trying to force both Zia and Sheikh Hasina
into exile as part of a crackdown on political corruption,
blaming both for years of misrule.


But on Wednesday the government lifted a ban on Hasina's return
from holiday and insisted there was no longer any pressure on Zia
-- who had reportedly agreed to go into exile in Saudi Arabia --
to leave the country.


"It's up to them, where they stay, what they do," the Indian
foreign secretary said of the two women leaders.

