

South Korea's Suk Jong-yul begins his title defence of the Caltex
Maekyung Open here on Thursday desperately looking to recapture
his winning form.


The 39-year-old claimed his maiden Asian Tour victory 12 months
ago with a thrilling one-shot triumph over American Bryan Saltus
but will tee up at Nam Seoul Country Club short on confidence.


Suk started the 2007 season strongly with a tied fifth finish at
the Indonesia Open but has missed his last three cuts in Asia.


"I'm looking forward to my defence. I can remember my win well
from last year and I hope to play well again," said Suk.


He faces a strong field in the 600,000 dollar event which
includes the in-form Thaworn Wiratchant of Thailand, China's
Liang Wen-chong, and winners this season Chapchai Nirat of
Thailand and Malaysia's Airil Rizman.


South Korea's Hur Suk-ho, better known as SK Ho and a six-time
winner in Japan, also tees off, as does former US Ryder Cup
player Chris Riley.


Saltus, who possesses one of the most unique but trusty golf
swings on the Asian Tour, is hoping to improve by one rung from
last year's performance.


"I have taken on a new outlook to the game and have become so
much more serious in achieving good results," he said.


"I have put in a lot more effort in improving my game this season
in comparison to previous years in my aim to become a more
accomplished player.


"It has been a rollercoaster ride so far but I'll keep working at
it."


Filipino Angelo Que will also be fired up for another solid week
after producing his best result in the past year at the inaugural
Pine Valley Beijing Open last week where he finished tied fifth.


Another player looking to erase the bitter memories of a loss
last year is Korea's Lee Sung, who was born deaf. He took a two-
shot lead into the final round but finished third after being
overhauled by Suk and Saltus.


The tournament is the 13th leg of this season's Asian Tour.

