

Socialist presidential candidate Segolene Royal warned Tuesday
that France faced the risk of unrest if her rightwing rival
Nicolas Sarkozy is elected and puts in motion "brutal" change.


With five days to go before the vote, Royal told some 60,000
supporters at a Paris sports stadium that she was the only
candidate who "wants to reform France and wants civil peace in my
country."


"We are confronting a risk: the brutality in the conduct of
public affairs could endanger social peace and civil peace," said
Royal.


"This danger is contained in the programme of the rightwing
candidate," she said at the rally attended by some of France's
top music stars.


"I am committed to reforming France without brutality and without
shock," said Royal, adding that she stood for "a France without
violence and which embraces its energy to move forward in civil
peace."


Royal, who wants to become France's first woman president, has
been trailing Sarkozy in the polls ahead of the election on
Sunday that is pitting the socialist against the candidate of the
governing party.


An Ipsos/Dell survey published Tuesday showed Sarkozy would beat
Royal with 53 percent of votes against 47 percent.


But one in three voters who backed centrist Francois Bayrou in
the first round remains undecided, according to the Sofres
polling firm.


Royal, a 53-year-old former adviser to president Francois
Mitterrand, has campaigned on a platform that calls for reforming
institutions to bring them closer to the people and for revamping
welfare programmes to help the jobless and poor.


Sarkozy, the 52-year-old former interior minister, has pledged to
get France back to work, reduce the size of the public service,
cut taxes and restore law and order.

