

The dollar hit a two-month high against the yen in Asian trade
Wednesday, lifted by better-than-expected US manufacturing data,
dealers said.


They said the dollar also gained on the euro as the robust data
raised doubts about the chances of an early interest rate cut by
the US Federal Reserve.


The dollar climbed above 120 yen briefly for the first time since
late February before easing back to 119.96 yen in Tokyo afternoon
trade, up from 119.78 in New York late Tuesday.


The euro eased to 1.3572 dollars after 1.3606 and to 162.81 yen
from 162.99.


"Traders seem to be adjusting their positions after massive
purchases of euros in the past few days, a move which is
certainly prompted by the brisk US manufacturing data," said
Marito Ueda, a currency trader at FX Prime.


"There's no reason to buy the yen for the moment," added Ueda.


The Institute of Supply Management's index of US industrial
activity rose to 54.7 from 50.9 in March, beating market
expectations for a slight gain to 51.0.


Analysts said the data made it more likely that the US Federal
Reserve would maintain interest rates at current levels when it
meets on May 9 and not be spurred to cut them.


The euro has edged down from its all time high of 1.3682 against
the dollar struck on Friday.


Budiness in Asia was relatively quiet as players took to the
sidelines ahead of a four-day holiday weekend in Tokyo, dealers
said.


"Traders are seeking new market-moving factors, namely US
payrolls data due out Friday," said Ueda.


Meanwhile, the dollar rose to 47.56 Philippine pesos from 47.370
in late Asian trade Tuesday and to 1.5234 Singapore dollars from
1.5208.


It eased to 32.740 Thai baht from 32.750, to 930.10 South Korean
won from 930.50 and to 33.302 Taiwan dollars from 33.311 while
holding steady at 9,078 Indonesian rupiah.

