

Scottish voters go to the polls on Thursday in what British Prime
Minister Tony Blair has called a "a decision which will define
the future of Scotland" because of nationalist calls for
independence.


Here are some key facts about the election:


-- The Scottish Parliament is the single chamber legislative body
in Edinburgh.


-- The 129 members of the Scottish Parliament (MSPs) are each
elected for four years.


-- Seventy-three constituency MSPs are elected on a first-past-
the-post basis and 56 by a form of proportional representation
for the country's eight regions on a party list system.


-- The electoral system makes it difficult for any party to have
an outright majority of 65 seats.


-- The ministerial arm of the parliament is called the Scottish
Executive and comprises 20 members, plus two law officers.


-- It manages an annual budget given to it by the Treasury
finance ministry in London. In 2007-2008, the budget is more than
30 billion pounds (44 billion euros, 60 billion dollars).


-- The centre-left Labour Party has been in power since the
parliament opened in 1999 in a formal coalition with the Liberal
Democrats.


-- Labour had the most seats in the last parliament (50),
followed by Scottish National Party (27); Conservative Party
(18); Liberal Democrats (17); Greens (7); Scottish Socialists
(6); others (4).


-- The parliament has powers to set policy on areas including
health, education, transport, housing and the criminal justice
system.


-- It can also raise or lower the rate of income tax by three
pence (four euro cents, six cents) in the pound (euro, dollar),
although it has never used this power.


-- Issues such as foreign policy, defence and national security
plus fiscal policy are "reserved" to the United Kingdom in
London.


-- A number of opinion polls suggest the SNP is ahead of Labour
and could become the largest party.


-- The SNP has pledged to publish plans for a referendum on
independence within the first 100 days of coming to power in a
formal coalition and hold the vote in 2010.

