

Canada's Members of Parliament have summoned Hockey Canada
officials to explain the decision to make Shane Doan the captain
of their national team for the IIHF World Hockey Championships.


Doan, who scored the winning goal in Canada's 4-2 win over Norway
on Monday, is at the centre of a controversy concerning an
alleged incident 17 months ago at the end of a National Hockey
League game between his Phoenix Coyotes and Montreal Canadiens.


Officials working the game claim Doan called one of them "fucking
Frenchmen" and he was given a gross misconduct penalty. The
National Hockey League's disciplinary committee investigated the
incident but decided against further punishment.


Doan has denied making any such remarks but his presence on the
Canadian Olympic team at the Turin Winter Olympics in 2006 caused
an outcry in the French- speaking province of Quebec.


Hockey Canada's decision to nominate him as captain of the
national team for the Worlds brought more criticism, this time
from Canadian politicians.


"I mean it is not the first time that words like that are used
against French players. That was almost a tradition and we should
accept that? Never," said Gilles Duceppe, leader of the Bloc
Quebecois party.


"Hockey Canada is receiving money from Sports Canada, from the
taxpayers. It is the taxpayers' money so they will have to
answer."


A joint motion spearheaded by the Bloc Quebecois asks Hockey
Canada to appear before the House of Commons Official Languages
Committee.


Canada next plays Wednesday against Slovakia at the IIHF World
Championships which runs until May 13 in Moscow.


In 2005, Canadian Sean Avery made disparaging remarks about
French Canadians while playing for the Los Angeles Kings.

