

Jose Calderon scored a career-high 25 points as Toronto stayed in
contention in their first-round playoff series against New Jersey
with a 98-96 victory in game five on Tuesday.


Anthony Parker had 18 points and Morris Peterson added 17 for
Toronto, which bounced back after suffering a pair of double-
digit road losses and trails the series, 3-2.


"We shot the ball well," Raptors coach Sam Mitchell said. "We
tapered off some in the second half, which is to be expected, but
we just found a way to win the basketball game."


Game Six will be in New Jersey on Friday.


"We know it's not going to be easy, but we just have to keep
going," Raptors forward Chris Bosh said. "We have nothing to lose
right now, our backs are against the wall."


Calderon came through with a clutch performance after T.J. Ford
was hurt at the end of the first period.


The Spaniard took over at the point and scored 10 of his total in
the second quarter for the Raptors, who took a 59-42 lead at
halftime.


Ford was hurt when Nets forward Vince Carter landed on his upper
torso scrambling for a loose ball near the end of the first
period.


The fourth-year point guard was taken to the bench to receive
treatment during a timeout and returned briefly to split a pair
of free throws.


After the quarter ended, Ford was taken to an area hospital,
suffering stinging sensations in both arms. He was released and
was back on the bench in street clothes in the final period.


"All tests were negative and T.J. is going to be re-evaluated in
the morning," Raptors media relations director Jim Labumbard
said.


"He went home to rest as he was still feeling a stinger and
tingling sensations in both arms.  His status for game six is
unknown at the present time."


"T.J.'s a warrior so hopefully he'll be back in time for Friday,"
Bosh added.


Calderon, who shot 12-of-20 from the field, also added eight
assists for Toronto, which held a 79-67 advantage entering the
final period.

