

US shares swung higher Tuesday to lift blue chips to a fresh
record high as the market got a lift from declining oil prices
and a big takeover bid for the Wall Street Journal parent
company.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average advanced 73.23 points (0.56
percent) to 13,136.14, hitting its fourth all-time high in the
past five sessions.


The Nasdaq composite gained 6.44 points (0.26 percent) to
2,531.53 while the broad-market Standard and Poor's 500 index
added 3.93 points (0.27 percent) to 1,486.30.


"A surge in the final hour pushed the Dow to a record close as
the stock market overcame a mixed bag of economic and earnings
reports," said Al Goldman, market strategist at AG Edwards. "A
drop in oil prices and merger news in the newspaper industry gave
the advance legs."


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in June, slid 1.31 dollars to close at 64.40 dollars per
barrel.


The main indexes had initially opened stronger and then wobbled
after a weaker- than-expected report on pending home sales, amid
a wide-ranging housing downturn.


The weak news on the housing front was offset partly by a report
showing surprising strength in manufacturing. The Institute of
Supply Management's index of factory activity rose to 54.7
percent from 50.9 percent a month earlier.


"The industrial heartland may finally be seeing the light at the
end of the tunnel and it doesn't appear to be a freight train,"
said Joel Naroff of Naroff Economic Advisors of the ISM report.


The surprise bid by Rupert Murdoch's News Corp. for Dow Jones,
publisher of the Journal and creator of the Dow Jones indexes,
sparked some buying in the troubled newspaper industry.


Dow Jones shares surged 55 percent or 19.87 dollars to close at
56.20, even though the closing price was below the takeover offer
of 60 dollars per share.


Shares in the New York Times Co. meanwhile rallied 1.53 dollars
or 6.5 percent to 24.93 and McClatchy Newspapers added 58 cents
to 29.48.


As the potential acquirer, News Corp. shares fell 1.01 dollars to
22.99. The group owns the Fox television and film studios as well
as newspapers in Britain, Australia and the United States.


Elsewhere, Procter & Gamble fell 1.65 to 62.84 as the
consumer products giant reported profits ahead of most estimates
but offered cautious guidance going forward.


Circuit City shares slipped 93 cents to 16.52 as the electronics
retailer said it expected a loss for the current quarter.


Bonds traded mixed. The yield on the 10-year US Treasury bond
increased to 4.642 percent from 4.630 percent Monday while that
on the 30-year bond fell to 4.816 percent against 4.817 percent.
Bond yields and prices move in opposite directions.

