

More than 1,000 Afghan students took to the streets Wednesday in
a fourth day of anti-American protests over civilians allegedly
killed by coalition troops, witnesses said.


The angry protestors shouted "Death to (George W.) Bush, death to
(President Hamid) Karzai" in Jalalabad, the capital of eastern
Nangarhar province, where six people were killed in a US-led raid
at the weekend.


They called on the 14,000-strong US-led coalition, based in
Afghanistan to root out Taliban remnants, to leave the war-torn
country.


"The Americans must leave Afghanistan because they don't respect
Afghanistan," said one protester.


The protest comes a day after Afghan authorities said that some
30 civilians were among scores of Taliban-linked militants killed
during operations by US-led and Afghan forces in the western
province of Herat.


Hundreds of people demonstrated in Herat's Shindand district on
Monday, saying scores of civilians were killed in the US-led
operation on Friday and Sunday.


The Jalalabad demonstration follows similar protests in the town
since Sunday when US-led forces killed six people. The coalition
has said four were militants and that a woman and a teenager were
killed in crossfire.


"Why are they (Karzai and Bush) not accounting for the blood of
innocent people who are being killed by the Americans on our
soil," said one student who declined to be named.


"The Americans have invaded our country. They have made
themselves the owners and us their slaves," shouted another one,
cheered by others.


The students from Nangarhar University burned an effigy of
President Bush in similar demonstrations they staged on Tuesday.


The interior ministry has appointed a commission to investigate
the civilian deaths in Shindand.


Parliamentarians also expressed anger this week at mounting
civilian deaths in military operations against insurgents,
including by the US-led coalition that invaded Afghanistan and
toppled the Taliban regime in late 2001.

