

Swiss banking giant Credit Suisse announced Wednesday that first
quarter net profit rose 5.0 percent from the same period in 2006
to 2.7 billion Swiss francs as it warned of increased market
volatility in the months ahead.


The result, worth 2.2 billion dollars or 1.6 billion euros, was
in line with analysts' forecasts of net profit between 2.45-2.83
billion Swiss francs.


"Our results for the first quarter of 2007 demonstrate the
continued progress of our integrated business model," said the
bank's Chief Executive Officer, Oswald Gruebel.


Gruebel will step down from his post on May 4, to be replaced by
the American Brady Dougan.


The outgoing CEO said he was "convinced that under the leadership
of Brady Dougan... Credit Suisse will continue to grow and
strengthen its profitability."


Credit Suisse said results from continuing operations --
excluding the Winterthur insurance division which was sold to
French peer Axa -- rose 17 percent on an annual basis to 2.7
billion Swiss francs.


Return on equity improved to 25.2 percent from 24.4 percent a
year earlier, while the bank generated new assets of 15.2 billion
Swiss francs in its Wealth Management unit, and 29.0 billion
Swiss francs in its Asset Management unit.


The bank's total assets under management stood at 1.551 trillion
Swiss francs as of March 31, 2007 -- up 4.5 percent from the
level at December 31, 2006.


Credit Suisse said its business pipeline remains robust and was
optimistic about long-term growth prospects in investment
banking.


However, it cautioned that market volatility is likely to
increase in the coming months, and market corrections cannot be
ruled out.


The bank is sticking to its 2007 net profit target of 8.2 billion
Swiss francs, chief finance officer Renato Fassbind told a
telephone conference.


Asked about any possible acquisitions, Fassbind said Credit
Suisse had no intention of investing in any retail bank outside
of Switzerland.

