

US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice warned Iraq's neighbours
Wednesday that the entire Middle East's stability was at stake in
the upcoming international conference to be held in Egypt.


"The most important message that I will be delivering is that a
stable, unified and democratic Iraq is an Iraq that will be a
pillar of stability in the Middle East and an Iraq that is not
stable and not an Iraq for all people will be a source of
instability for the region," she said.


Rice was speaking to reporters during a stopover in Ireland on
her way to the Red Sea resort of Sharm el-Sheikh, where she will
take part in unprecedented multilateral talks aimed at ending the
bloodshed in Iraq.


"So the region has everything at stake here. Iraq's neighbours
have everything at stake here," Rice said.


"But not all states we believe are acting in the interest of a
stable and unified Iraq. And so it's very important for the
neighbours to get together and to make that commitment and then
to act on that commitment," she explained.


She was referring to Syria and Iran, who have been accused by
Washington of funding the Sunni insurgency and Shiite militias
respectively and are believed to hold the key to Iraq's
stability.


Washington has also been seeking to increase Saudi Arabia's
involvement in attempts to curb the spiralling violence.


Rice is expected to arrive in Sharm el-Sheikh later Wednesday for
preliminary talks.


The two-day conference starts in earnest on Thursday with the
launch of the International Compact with Iraq (ICI), an
initiative providing a framework for Iraq's security and economic
development.


The second day of the conference will focus on bringing all of
Iraq's neighbours together as well as the United Nations, United
States and European Union for unprecedented talks.


Rare high-level talks between Washington and Tehran could also
take place during the Sharm el-Sheikh conference.

