

Pirates have hijacked an Indian cargo ship anchored at Somalia's
main port of Mogadishu and taken it northwards up the coast, a
maritime official said Tuesday.


The hijackers took control of the MV Nimatullah and its 14 crew
members late Sunday.  Two days later they began moving the ship,
ferrying 800 tonnes of general household goods, heading for the
north of the Horn of Africa nation.


Andrew Mwangura of the Kenyan branch of the Seafarers Assistance
Programme told AFP that the identity of the pirates remained
unknown, but that they had demanded an unspecified ransom.


"We are informed that the hijackers are demanding a ransom,"
Mwangura said. "We have sent someone to find the agent of the
ship in Mogadishu."


The hijack is the second since Ethiopian troops helped Somali
government forces oust an Islamist movement from Mogadishu at the
end of December, and comes after days of heavy fighting in the
city, sparked by an Ethiopian offensive on Islamist insurgents
and clan fighters.


A UN-chartered cargo ship is still being held off northeast
Somalia. It was seized in February after delivering food aid to
the war-torn nation.


Waters off the unpatrolled 3,700-kilometer (2,300-mile) Somali
coastline saw scores of pirate attacks between March 2005 and
June last year, but these stopped during six months of strict
Islamist rule of south and central Somalia.


Remnants of the Islamists and clan fighters have been battling
government forces and their Ethiopian backers since the start of
the year.

