

The International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia on
Tuesday trimmed the jail sentence to 30 years from 32 on a former
Bosnian Serb leader convicted of war crimes and crimes against
humanity.


Radoslav Brdjanin was originally sentenced in 2004 for his part
in the persecution, torture, deportation and "ethnic cleansing"
of non-Serbs during the 1992-1995 Bosnian war.


But the appeal court agreed that the original judgement had no
basis for its ruling that Brdanin's conduct had a substantial
effect on torture committed in Bosnian Serb detention camps


It also acquitted Brdanin of the wanton destruction of cities,
towns or villages not justified by military necessity.


It confirmed the original judgement, handed down in September
2004, which had cleared him of genocide -- an acquittal that
provoked outrage among Bosnian Muslims and Croats at the time of
the original judgement.


Brdjanin, 59, was a civil engineer who went into politics just
before the war.


He was sentenced for his part in the ethnic cleansing of Bosnian
Croats and Muslims in the northwest Krajina region of the country
that borders Croatia.


This latest ICTY judgement, which cannot be appealed, comes a day
after the ICTY rejected an appeal by a Bosnian Croat former
paramilitary against his 20-year sentence for the rape and murder
of Bosnian Muslims.


Miroslav Bralo had pleaded guilty to his part in atrocities
carried out by the Joceri (the Jokers) paramilitary unit attached
to the Croatian Defence Council.


His lawyers argued unsuccessfully Monday that the original
judgement had ignored mitigating circumstances.


More than 200,000 people were killed during the Bosnia war.

