

Controversial new election regulations kept as many as 2.5
million Cambodians from casting ballots in weekend local polls,
election monitors said Tuesday.


Only 60 to 70 percent of the country's 7.7 million eligible
voters went to the polls Sunday, marking the lowest turnout ever
since Cambodia's first democratic elections were held in 1993,
election officials said.


Confusion over voter registration lists and new identity card
requirements kept many people from voting, election monitors
said, adding that increased voter apathy also contributed to the
low turnout.


"Some people did not go to vote because they were confused ...
they might have thought they had no right to vote" when they did
not receive voter documents from the National Election Committee,
said Thun Saray of the election watchdog Comfrel.


Misspelled or missing names from voter lists also caused havoc at
polling stations, other monitors said.


"The irregularities ... caused trouble for the voters," said Kek
Galabru of the monitor Nicfec.


Opposition politicians say the confusion created by the new
regulations gave the ruling Cambodian People's Party (CPP) an
unfair advantage in the polls.


The CPP has claimed victory in more than 98 percent of the
contested 1,621 commune councils -- small administrative bodies
that govern rural villages or city neighbourhoods.


Prime Minister Hun Sen, the CPP's deputy president, said Tuesday
the victory would pave the way for a landslide win in next year's
national elections.


But opposition leader Sam Rainsy said "the election result would
have been completely different" had those shut out of the polls
been allowed to vote.


Prior to the country's first commune council elections in 2002,
local officials were appointed by the government and had remained
largely unchanged since the early 1980s.

