

Iran's semi-official Fars news agency on Tuesday published new
photographs of the captured British sailors showing them
"relaxing" in tracksuits and playing chess on a carpet.


A photograph showed the sole female detainee, Faye Turney,
without the Islamic headscarf she had worn in previous
appearances. It was also the first time the sailors had been seen
out of military fatigues.


One image showed six sailors sitting on a carpet around a bowl of
food smiling and laughing. Another showed two bent in
concentration over a chess board.


"These latest pictures show their ideal conditions. They are
having fun, relaxing and enjoying food and coffee while playing
chess," the news agency said.


"It looks like these sailors are happy with spending time in good
conditions under the Iranians' Islamic kindness instead of
operating in the hard conditions of the Persian Gulf," it added.


The wearing of the headscarf is obligatory in public for all
women in Islamic Iran, regardless of their nationality, and is
also deemed necessary when a woman is in the company of unrelated
men.


Turney appeared to be wearing the garment around her neck, with
its removal contributing to a picture that was clearly aimed at
showing the captives in as relaxed environment as possible.


Her previous televised appearences had all shown her wearing a
loosely draped black headscarf, in line with Iran's Islamic dress
code.


The publication of the pictures came amid increasingly upbeat
comments by Iranian officials about the prospects for a
diplomatic solution to the crisis without any trial of the 15
sailors and marines who were captured on March 23.


Iran also appears to have halted the broadcast of televised
"confessions" by the naval personnel that they intruded into
Iranian waters. No such videos were broadcast on Tuesday.

