

Europe's major stock markets closed sharply higher on Tuesday,
with Frankfurt's DAX breaching 7,000 points amid positive trading
on Wall Street and gains for European energy shares, dealers
said.


The London FTSE 100 index closed up 0.80 percent at 6,366.10
points, while in Paris the CAC 40 gained 1.18 percent to 5,711.91
points and in Frankfurt the Dax added 1.56 percent to 7,045.56
points.


The DJ Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone blue chip shares rose 1.35
percent to 4,246.30.


The euro stood at 1.3361 dollars.


Wall Street shares raced higher Tuesday after crude oil prices
dipped on signals that tensions appeared to be easing between
Iran and Britain over the detention by Iran of 15 British
sailors.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average advanced 0.90 percent to
12,493.48 and the Nasdaq composite leapt 1.18 percent to 2,450.84
at 1520 GMT.


The Standard and Poor's 500 broad-market index rose 0.84 percent
to 1,436.54.


New York crude futures fell 1.59 dollars to 64.35 dollars a
barrel at 1520 GMT after Iran and Britain started talks described
as a first step towards resolving the row over the capture of the
sailors.


Japanese share prices closed higher Tuesday as bargain hunters
emerged after Monday's sell-off, encouraged by a slightly softer
yen and modest gains to US stocks.


Chinese share prices rose 1.19 percent for another record finish
on continued strong fund inflows, with property and machinery
stocks gaining ground, dealers said.


In Europe the share price of E.ON surged 5.97 percent to 108.20
euros, topping Frankfurt's DAX 30 Tuesday, following the
announcement that Germany's biggest power supplier would drop its
takeover bid for Spanish electricity supplier Endesa.


Endesa slipped 1.09 percent to 40.0 euros in Madrid, where the
overall Spanish market closed at a new record high.


Fellow Spanish energy groups gained strongly, with Iberdrola up
2.38 percent to 37 euros, Union Fenosa 4.6 percent higher at
42.78 euros and Gas Natural up 3.89 percent at 37.14 euros.


Meanwhile French utility group Suez jumped 2.14 percent to 40.50
euros in Paris, on speculation that E.ON would now pursue other
targets, dealers said.


The Financial Times reported on Tuesday that European stock
exchanges have overtaken those in the United States in value for
the first time since World War I, a sign of the slipping global
dominance of US markets.


Twenty four European markets, including those in Russia and
emerging eastern countries, "saw their capitalisation rise to
15,720 billion dollars (11,819 billion euros) at the end of last
week," the FT said, citing Thompson Financial data.


In Madrid on Tuesday the Ibex 35 index closed at a new high of
14,953.2 points, a 1.51-percent gain on Monday's closing level.


In Milan the SP/Mib added 0.97 percent to 42,398 points, in
Amsterdam the AEX rose 0.79 percent to 516.04 points while in
Brussels the Bel 20 added 1.38 percent to 4,547.42 points.


The Swiss SMI index increased 1.0 percent to 9,053.95 points.


In Asia on Tuesday, the Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index
of leading shares closed up 1.27 percent at 17,244.05 points.


Hong Kong's key Hang Seng Index won 0.97 percent to 20,002.70,
helped by positive leads from overseas markets.

