

Despite projections of a bumper grain crop this year, 33
countries will not have enough food, with Iraq and Zimbabwe among
the hardest hit, the UN food agency said Tuesday.


Countries with "widespread lack of access to food" include
Afghanistan, North Korea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Haiti, Liberia,
Mauritania, Nepal, Niger and Sierra Leone, according to the April
issue of the Food and Agriculture Organisation's "Crop Prospects
and Food Situation" report.


Hardest hit, with an "exceptional shortfall" in food production
and supplies, are Iraq, Lesotho, the Philippines, Swaziland and
Zimbabwe, the FAO said.


In eastern Africa, millions "still depend on food assistance ...
due to a combination of factors including conflict and adverse
weather conditions," it said.


In southern Africa, preliminary forecasts suggest a below-average
maize yield similar to that of 2006, the statement said, although
prospects vary from country to country.


Prospects are good overall in Latin America and the Caribbean,
except for in Bolivia, where severe weather, ranging from
torrential rains to drought, has caused extensive losses to
agriculture, livestock and other assets.


World cereal production is forecast to increase by 4.3 percent to
a record two billion tonnes, the Rome-based agency said.


"The bulk of the increase is expected in maize, (and) a
significant rise in wheat output is also foreseen, with a
recovery in some major exporting countries after weather problems
last year," it said.


About half of the increase -- some 41 million tonnes -- will come
from the production of "coarse grains," mainly maize, in North
and South America to meet surging demand for ethanol fuel, the
FAO study found.

