

President George W. Bush on Tuesday said there should be no "quid
pro quos" with Iran in Britain's standoff with Iran over 15
captive sailors.


Asked if five Iranians held in Iraq should be released to favor a
possible release of the Britons, Bush said "I also strongly
support the prime minister's (Tony Blair's) declaration that
there should be no quid pro quos when it comes to the hostages."


Blair said earlier Tuesday that the standoff with Iran over the
captive sailors was in a "critical" phase, after a top Tehran
official said new contacts could help end the crisis.


But Blair also warned that he may be forced to take "tougher
decisions" if the naval personnel are not freed, while Iran's
vice-president reiterated that London must admit they were in
Iranian territorial waters when seized.


"The next 48 hours will be fairly critical," Blair told Glasgow-
based Real Radio, while cautiously welcoming comments by top
Iranian national security official Ali Larijani, who on Monday
underlined the need for a diplomatic solution.


"I've read the transcripts of the interview (Larijani) gave and
that seems to offer some prospect but the most important thing is
to get these people back," he said, referring to the Iranian's
comments in a television interview.


In Tehran, senior officials appeared to be taking a more
conciliatory tone over the 14 men and one woman who were seized
in the northern Gulf on March 23 and accused of trespassing in
Iranian waters.


"London has changed its attitude for several days now and is
acting on the basis of negotiations," Vice President Parviz
Davoudi told reporters in the southern city of Bushehr where he
was opening a new installation at Iran's first nuclear power
station.


But he warned: "London must give guarantees and say that there
was a violation and there will be no other errors in the future.
I think that the problem is heading in this direction and God
willing will be resolved soon."

