

Exiled Russian tycoon Boris Berezovsky said Tuesday he plans to
sue the Russia TV state-owned channel for a story which alleged
that he wanted former Russian agent Alexander Litvinenko
murdered.


The channel presented the report as a new line of inquiry in the
Litvinenko murder investigation, alleging that Berezovsky wanted
his friend out of the way because the ex-spy knew of the
businessman's attempts to obtain political asylum in Britain.


"I want to bring the case to the court this week," Berezovsky
told reporters in London, where he lives in self-imposed exile.


He branded the report "lies" and condemned political interference
in the Russian media.


Litvinenko died of radiation poisioning in a London hospital on
November 23 last year.


In the report Sunday on the "Vesti Nedeli" programme, a man
alleged he was approached in 2003 by Litvinenko who wanted him,
in exchange for money, to testify before the British authorities
that he was charged with poisoning Berezovsky.


The testimony would allegedly have helped the oligarch to obtain
political asylum in Britain.


The man was only identified as "Piotr". He had his back to the
camera and his voice was electronically modified.


In the report, "Piotr" alleged that he refused Litvinenko's
offer, but was drugged and forced to testify and is now fearing
for his life.


The report allegedly suggested that Berezovsky obtained political
asylum in Britain due to a false testimony and was trying to get
rid of potentially embarassing witnesses.


Russia has demanded Berezovsky's extradition several times, but
Britain, which granted him political asylum in 2003, has rejected
the requests.


Berezovsky made his fortune in the controversial wave of
privatisations in Russia in the 1990s.


He fled his homeland in 2000 after President Vladimir Putin's
rise to power, saying that charges of large-scale fraud and
swindling against him were politically motivated.

