

The logistics group TNT Post said Tuesday that it would cut
between 6,500-7,000 jobs in a reorganisation of its Dutch mail
operations that face increasing competition, in part from the
Internet.


The number could rise to 11,000 if an agreement on job
flexibility is not reached with unions, the Dutch group added.


TNT's planned measures were designed "to safeguard its success in
the longer term in a postal market that is experiencing declining
volumes and increasing competition," a statement said.


The job cuts were to be implemented from now until 2010 as part
of a drive to achieve 300 million euros (400 million dollars) in
savings that got underway in December.


The mail distribution group said talks with unions would focus on
salaries.


"Employee wages will be, at best, frozen at the present level for
the next two and a half years," a statement said, with the
company adding that it and workers had to choose the lesser of
two evils, the other being bigger job cuts.


TNT currently employs 58,000 people in the Netherlands, including
25,000 delivery staff who were expected to bear the brunt of the
new measures.


"Other conditions of employment will have to be brought more in
line with the market," the company warned.


Postal services have seen the emergence of low-cost carriers and
TNT has launched its own unit, Netwerk VSP, in part to compete
against Internet rivals that have won contracts to distribute
items such as income tax declarations.


In 2006, TNT posted a 1.7 percent increase in net profit at 670
million euros, though fourth quarter profit leapt by 75 percent
to 189 million euros compared with the last three months of 2005.


In afternoon trades on the Amsterdam stock exchange, TNT shares
had lost 0.84 percent to 34.38 euros, while the AEX index had
gained 0.19 percent overall.

