

Croatia, Italy, Romania, Serbia and Slovenia pledged Tuesday to
boost cooperation on a plan to build a 1,300-kilometer-long (806
-mile-long) oil pipeline that would link the Black Sea with
Italy.


Economy ministers and state secretaries of the five countries
voiced their "support for the enhancement of cooperation between
the countries of the Pan- European pipeline (PEOP) route and
those other countries that have expressed their interest in the
PEOP project," a declaration signed here said.


"This project providing for the transport of oil from ... the
Black Sea to European market is a strategic project for both
Croatia and all the countries through which it (the pipeline)
will go," Croat Prime Minister Ivo Sanader said after the
document was signed.


The pipeline, linking the Romanian Black Sea port of Constanta
and the Italian Adriatic port of Trieste, would cost 2.0-3.5
billion dollars (1.5-2.6 billion euros), he added.


"Today we made the first important step ... We believe that we
will soon start with realization of the project," Sanader said.


European Union Energy Commissioner Andris Piebalgs, who co-signed
the declaration, stressed the EU's support for the project,
proposed back in 2002.


"I and my colleagues will do everything possible to facilitate
the work ... (to) see implementation of this project," he
stressed.


Piebalgs said that the Caspian Sea region would be supplying more
and more to the world market.


"But to be really ready to accomodate the oil we need
infrastructure plans and this infrastrucre should be sound and
avoid congestion that could provoke huge environmental damage if
something goes wrong," he added.


"The Pan-European oil pipeline actually very much corresponds to
this criteria."


The pipleline would have the capacity to transport 80-100 million
tonnes of crude oil annually.


The declaration was signed on the sidelines of a one-day meeting
on energy security, potential and investment in south-eastern
Europe.

