

German Chancellor Angela Merkel's message of support for
Ireland's main opposition has angered lawmakers in Prime Minister
Bertie Ahern's party, media reports said Tuesday.


A letter from Merkel, read out at Fine Gael's party conference at
the weekend, made clear she favoured a change of government in
May's general election, according to the Irish Independent
newspaper.


"I hope that Fine Gael will be successful and will emerge as the
strongest force from the election in May and will take over the
responsibility of government," the letter said.


The German leader's intervention was criticised by a number of
lawmakers in Ahern's Fianna Fail party.


MP Sean Fleming criticised Merkel for interfering in the
elections of a sovereign country, telling the Irish Independent:
"The Irish people have a very deep-rooted sense of not being told
what to do by foreign powers."


Another MP, Martin Brady, said the intervention was "silly and
stupid".


"My message for her would be: 'stick to your politics in
Germany'. What does she know about the ins and outs of politics
here or what's best for the Irish people?" he told the newspaper.


A Fine Gael spokesman refused to release details of Merkel's
letter, saying that although it was read out at the conference,
it would "not be appropriate for the party to actually circulate
the letter".


The government refused to comment, saying it was a "party
political matter".


A spokeswoman for Fianna Fail told AFP that it was "standard
practice over years" for parties within the same European
grouping, as are Fine Gael and Merkel's Christian Democrats, to
wish each other well before elections.

