

Japan on Tuesday said it was taking a "cautious position" on a
civilian nuclear agreement between India and the United States.


"The Japanese government has been taking a cautious position,"
Japanese foreign ministry press secretary Mitsuo Sakaba told a
news conference in New Delhi, where Tokyo is taking part as an
observer in a regional summit.


Sakaba said the issue had come up during talks between Indian
Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and Japanese Foreign Minister Taro
Aso on the sidelines of the regional meeting of South Asian
nations.


"For Japan, the major problem in extending any (nuclear)
assistance to India is the non-membership of India to the Non-
Proliferation Treaty," Sakaba said. "India is not a member ... so
that is a core problem for us."


The agreement between New Delhi and Washington seeks to lift
nuclear sanctions against India which tested atomic weapons in
1998.


Japan is a key player in the 45-nation Nuclear Suppliers Group,
which controls the transfer of nuclear material and needs to
approve the India-US deal.


India has previously sought Japan's cooperation for nuclear
technology during Singh's visit to Tokyo in December and Indian
Foreign Minister Pranab Mukherjee's trip last month.


Tokyo is sensitive on nuclear issues as it is the only nation to
have been attacked with atomic weapons.


"We understand India's need to develop nuclear energy ... but we
have very strong concerns in general terms on the proliferation
issue," the Japanese official said.


Under the agreement, New Delhi would put its civilian-use
facilities under the safeguards of the UN International Atomic
Energy Agency (IAEA).


The Japanese official said Tokyo was closely following
negotiations between India and the IAEA.

