

Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono on Tuesday called
on Islamic religious leaders attending a conference on Middle
East conflict to find a way of contributing to peace in Iraq.


"We are gathered here in the name of peace, in the hope that by
pooling our experiences, insights and ideas, we could find a way
that leads to reconciliation in conflict-torn Iraq," he said as
the event opened.


The conference at the presidential palace in Bogor is being
attended by prominent clerics from Islam's Shiite and Sunni
sects.


Nine countries, including Iraq, and the Organisation of the
Islamic Conference are represented, although none of Iraq's key
Islamic leaders attended.


"In this conflict in Iraq, religious leaders have a vital role to
play ... You have a unique role because you have the ear of the
ummah (the community) in Iraq," Yudhoyono said.


Islamic leaders would be much more acceptable to Iraqis "then all
carrots and sticks," he said, and Iraqis needed to feel that they
were not alone.


Indonesian Foreign Minister Hassan Wirayuda in his address said
he hoped that the conference would serve as a preliminary step
towards his country's greater engagement in Iraq.


The event is being hosted by the Indonesian government and the
country's two largest Islamic organisations, the Nahdlatul Ulama
and Muhammadiyah.


But it comes only a few days after Muslim-majority Indonesia
backed UN sanctions against Iran over its disputed atomic
programme.


Nahdlatul Ulama Chairman Hasyim Muzadi told ElShinta radio on
Tuesday that Jakarta's stance had disappointed many Muslim
countries and could be why eight of the 23 foreign Islamic
leaders invited did not show up.


Delegates from Iran, Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon, Egypt, Syria,
Pakistan, Malaysia and host Indonesia attended the conference,
which hopes to agree a resolution on Wednesday.

