

The European Union finally reached agreement Tuesday on how to
implement a compromise on its long-term budget thrashed out by EU
leaders in December 2005, officials said.


The compromise saw Britain lose 10.5 billion euros of its
jealously-guarded rebate, won by former premier Margaret Thatcher
in 1984, which it receives on its payments into the bloc's
coffers.


But the EU had never fully resolved how the rebate during the
2007-2013 budget period would be calculated, an EU official
explained.


"We have agreed today the detailed implementation of the budget
deal agreed by heads of government in December 2005," a British
treasury spokesman said.


"There are no additional costs to the UK, and no changes to the
position on our rebate beyond those agreed in 2005," the
statement said.


Another EU official said Tuesday's agreement, reached by EU
ambassadors at a routine meeting in Brussels, was in part due to
Britain being allowed to use new rules to recover Value Added Tax
(VAT) on sales of some electronic products.


Britain has said it needed the rules to better combat VAT fraud.


But the treasury said the rules to tackle missing trader VAT
fraud were agreed some weeks ago and had nothing to do with the
agreement clinched Tuesday.


"There is no linkage between these two dossiers, and it is wrong
to claim otherwise," the spokesman said.


Progress on the 2005 budget compromise, which was widely
criticized in Britain, has been held up by Britain's finance
minister, Gordon Brown, because of differences over the methods
to calculate the rebate.

