

US President George W. Bush on Tuesday dismissed suggestions his
administration was at fault over the sackings of eight
prosecutors, amid charges the firings were politically motivated.


"The president names the US attorneys, and the president has the
right to remove US attorneys. There has been no credible evidence
of any wrongdoing," he said.


"Obviously when you name a US attorney, you want somebody who can
do the job. That's the most important criterion: somebody who's
qualified, somebody who can get a job done," he told a journalist
who asked if the attorneys had not been loyal enough.


"They serve at my pleasure. They have served four-year terms. And
we have every right to replace them," he added.


Democrats in Congress have pressed for the resignation of
Attorney General Alberto Gonzales after evidence from e-mails and
a top former aide implicated the long-time Bush ally in the
sackings late last year.


The Senate Judiciary Committee is investigating why the US
attorneys were fired, even as several of them were in the middle
of sensitive corruption investigations, and to what extent
Gonzales and the White House were involved.


Gonzales has denied being deeply involved in the matter.


But last week his former chief of staff Kyle Sampson told the
committee that Gonzales, who leads the Department of Justice, was
involved.


Bush has stood by Gonzales over the affair, and on Tuesday added
that he was sorry if the scandal was sullying the names of the
eight prosecutors.


"I am genuinely concerned about their reputations now that this
has become a Washington, DC focus.  I'm sorry it's come to this,"
he said.

