

Wall Street shares raced higher Tuesday after crude oil prices
dipped on signals that tensions appeared to ease between Iran and
Britain over the Islamic republic's holding of 15 British
sailors.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average advanced 111.18 points (0.90
percent) to 12,493.48 and the Nasdaq composite leapt 28.58 points
(1.18 percent) to 2,450.84 at 1520 GMT.


The Standard and Poor's 500 broad-market index rose 12.03 points
(0.84 percent) to 1,436.54.


New York crude futures fell 1.59 dollars to 64.35 dollars a
barrel at 1520 GMT after Iran and Britain started talks described
as a first step towards resolving the row over the capture of the
sailors.


For the stock market, "a drop in oil prices seems to be the focal
point," said Dick Green at Briefing.com.


This decline came "on the growing belief that the standoff
between Iran and the UK regarding the capture of 15 British
sailors will be resolved without military conflict," he added.


The rally gathered momentum after the National Association of
Realtors said its pending home sales index rose 0.7 percent in
February, a sign that the real estate slump may be easing.


"The stock market appears to be resilient, having handled the
Middle East flare up in pretty good shape," noted Fred Dickson,
market strategist at DA Davidson.


"If our forecast is modestly accurate and the Middle East
situation plays out to a peaceful diplomatic solution, the market
could be ready for another crack at the market indices highs last
seen in late February."


John Wilson at Morgan Keegan said the market has been held back
by "the same concerns" -- inflation, Iran, Iraq, Federal Reserve
policy and the risk of recession.


But he added, "At this point, we don't see the likelihood of a
recession developing, so we continue to look to history as a
guide for how the year could unfold. If inflation stays under
control and corporate earnings slow, but a recession doesn't
develop, then we would expect both stock and bonds to do well in
the second half of the year."


Among stocks in focus, General Motors rose 23 cents to 31.06 as
the market awaited monthly sales reports from automakers. Ford
added five cents to 8.14 and DaimlerChrysler's US shares fell
1.54 to 82.48.


Internet giant Google rose 10.25 dollars to 468.78 after
announcing a deal with satellite broadcaster EchoStar on an
automated system for buying, selling, delivering and measuring
television ads on EchoStar's DISH Network. EchoStar shares rose
58 cents to 44.12.


Qualcomm added 30 cents to 43.38 after announcing new patent
infringement lawsuits against Finnish mobile phone maker Nokia,
whose US shares rose 13 cents to 22.83.


Bonds drifted lower. The yield on the 10-year US Treasury bond
rose to 4.654 percent from 4.642 percent Monday and that on the
30-year bond edged up to 4.837 percent against 4.836 percent.
Bond yields and prices move in opposite directions.

