

Packets of blood found in the offices of Spanish doctor Eufemiano
Fuentes, who is alleged to have masterminded doping programmes
for top athletes, have been confirmed as being those of former
German cycling star Jan Ullrich.


A court in Bonn obtained a saliva sample from Ullrich last July
after he was implicated in the Fuentes affair to compare his DNA
with blood packets found with the codes "Jan" or "N.1".


Prosecutor Friedrich Apostel revealed Tuesday that there was "no
doubt" that the blood belonged to Ullrich, a former winner and
five-time runner-up of the Tour de France, who announced his
retirement from cycling in February.


Ullrich's lawyer Johann Schwenn dismissed the findings as being
"rigged".


Schwenn said: "We're awaiting documents from the police
investigation but it's highly likely that once again this is
manipulation like we saw in the enquiry by the Spanish justice
and documents collected by the international cycling union.


"As a result there is no reason to change our line of defence."


In the absence of anti-doping legislation in Germany the court in
Bonn is examining a complaint of fraud brought against Ullrich by
Britta Bannenberg, a Criminology specialist at the University of
Bielefeld who is herself a former athlete.


Ullrich was one of dozens of cyclists implicated in the alleged
doping network in Spain, dubbed 'Operation Puerto', which forced
him out of competing in last year's Tour de France along with
many other top cyclists.


The 33-year-old Ullrich, Germany's only winner of the world's
most prestigious bike race in 1997 claimed he never once cheated
in his career.


He was eventually sacked by his T-Mobile team during the race.


Spanish investigators closed the Puerto affair on March 12,
because there was no anti-doping legislation in Spain when the
scandal broke out - however a Madrid magistrate's court has
lodged an appeal against the decision.

