

An internal audit of several Airbus contracts after press
allegations about a kickback scheme operated by the aircraft
manufacturer has revealed no irregularities, Airbus parent
company EADS said on Tuesday.


"An internal audit of Airbus sales campaigns confirmed compliance
with both internal and international regulations and gave no
indication of irregularities," EADS said in a statement.


The French press reported in late March that EADS had used a vast
kickback scheme to secure orders in the United Arab Emirates and
Libya.


Both EADS and the French police denied the reports.


A report in French magazine L'Express claimed that 90 million
dollars (68 million euros) had been transferred overseas in
connection with aircraft sales in the two countries.


L'Express claimed that money had been funelled through a Tunisian
bank account during the sale of 40 A380 superjumbo jets to the
UAE-based Emirates airline and during another sale of 32 Airbus
planes to Libya.


EADS said in a statement the results of the audit had been noted
by the company board meeting on Monday.


Airbus has suffered a torrid 12 months owing to major production
problems with its A380 superjumbo plane which is two years behind
schedule.


The biggest client for the A380 is Emirates, which has ordered 43
of the 555-seat aircraft, the world's biggest civilian airliner.


Production problems have led to delays and Airbus slumped to an
operating loss last year under the weight of increased
manufacturing costs, compensation payments and restructuring.


On Monday EADS (the European Aeronautics Defence and Space
Company) said that the operating profit of its defence arm was
expected to increase by 50 million euros (66 million dollars) a
year.


"We are becoming a pole of stability of EADS," the defence
division's head Stefan Zoller said in Munich of a division which
has caused the company concerns in the past.

