

Lithuania's ruling Social Democrats on Tuesday failed in their
attempt to call snap elections, which Prime Minister Gediminas
Kirkilas said were needed to halt chaos in parliament.


Thirty-five legislators supported the Social Democrats' bill to
hold early elections on June 24, while 29 voted against, 25
abstained, and the remainder were absent or did not vote.


Lithuanian law allows for the calling of early elections if at
least 85 lawmakers in the 141-member parliament support the move.


Lithuania's four-way coalition government, headed by Kirkilas,
does not have a majority in parliament. Since coming to power
last July it has got by thanks to support from the opposition
Conservative Party, which pledged to back it.


But the Conservatives have expressed dissatisfaction recently
with the government's policies and have threatened to withdraw
their support for the coalition.


The Conservatives are unhappy with the government's support of
Arvydas Pocius, the head of the state security department, whom
parliament urged to resign last December.


Ceslovas Jursenas, deputy chairman of the Social Democrats, had
said that early elections were a way out of the impasse.


Jursenas drew up the draft election bill following last
Thursday's parliamentary session, which bordered on chaos as
lawmakers spent half the day arguing about what was to be on the
day's agenda. The debates nearly ruined the scheduled speech of
the EU president Jose Manuel Barroso, who was on visit in
Lithuania.


Early elections in Lithuania can also be called by the president
if parliament twice rejects the government programme presented by
a new prime minister.


But Kirkilas said his government does not plan to step down.


The current government is the 14th since independence from the
Soviet Union in 1991.


The next parliamentary elections in the Baltic state are
currently scheduled for the second half of 2008.

