

Police raided a religious school in remote western Afghanistan
and arrested 22 people, an official said Tuesday, alleging the
madrassa was involved in organising Taliban suicide attacks.


Afghan police acting on a tip-off raided the school late Monday
in the western province of Farah -- which last month saw several
suicide blasts -- provincial police chief Sayyed Agha Saqib told
AFP.


The school in the Bala Buluk district was being used as a
"terrorist centre" and was supported by Pakistani nationals and
Arabs, he said.


A Taliban commander named Mullah Hayatullah was alleged to be
using the madrassa to provide military training for the Taliban,
who were ousted by US-led forces in 2001.


The mullah was not among those caught in the raid and some of
those arrested confessed to being Taliban, he said.


Afghan and Western officials say that many of the men behind the
almost daily attacks in Afghanistan are trained in madrassas run
by extremist Islamists in areas of Pakistan along Afghanistan's
eastern border.


Farah province, which is however in the west of the country and
adjoins Iran, has until the last few weeks seen relatively little
of the Taliban violence stalking mainly southern and eastern
Afghanistan.


In late February the small town of Bakwa was overrun by Taliban
fighters who were in control for less than 24 hours before Afghan
security forces drove them out.


Authorities later detained the Bakwa district governor and his
police commander for alleged links with the Taliban.


A suicide bombing on a convoy delivering the new police chief to
his post on March 12 killed the officer and nine of his men. The
Taliban claimed responsibility for the murders.


A suicide car bombing in Bala Buluk the previous day killed one
policeman and wounded three others. It struck a convoy carrying a
police chief for western provinces including Farah.

