

The yen fell on Tuesday, dropping to one-month lows against the
euro and dollar, because of renewed appetite for carry trades,
dealers said.


Carry trades are when investors borrow currencies from countries
with low interest rates, such as the yen, in order to invest in
assets in countries with higher interest rates, such as Britain
or Australia.


Typically, carry trades are detrimental for low-yielding
currencies such as the yen and beneficial for higher yielding
units.


The euro was trading at 158.81 yen in late European trading from
157.50 late on Monday, its highest level since February 27.


The European unit eased to 1.3362 dollars from 1.3365 dollars
late in New York on Monday.


The dollar gained to 118.83 yen, its highest level since March 1,
compared with 117.83 late on Monday.


Amid subdued euro-dollar trading ahead of US jobs data on Friday,
currency traders were also waiting Tuesday for the Reserve Bank
of Australia to announce its latest decision on interest rates,
with the Bank of England's rate decision to follow on Thursday.


Recent strong data in both countries, particularly Australia,
have raised expectations of higher interest rates.


"The Bank of England and the RBA might raise interest rates, the
market believes Japanese rates are going nowhere and it's no
wonder the carry trade is alive and well," said Neil Mellor at
the Bank of New York.


The RBA board meets early Wednesday and the market is on alert to
the possibility of a early hike given recent strong retail sales
and inflation data.


"The latest data has tipped the balance in the market towards
pricing in a greater chance of a hike tonight by the RBA than
inaction," said Daragh Maher at Calyon.


Recent strong British data have increased the chances that the
Bank of England's Monetary Policy Committee will raise interest
rates again as early as this week.


Even if they opt to leave rates on hold this time, a hike in May
will be seen as all but a certainty, dealers said.


The dollar was steady against the euro, with the market awaiting
key US jobs data on Friday


The euro was changing hands at 1.3362 dollars, against 1.3365
dollars on Monday, 158.81 yen (157.50), 0.6757 pounds (0.6756)
and 1.6295 Swiss francs (1.6247).


The dollar stood at 118.83 yen (117.83) and 1.2193 Swiss francs
(1.2154).


The pound was being traded at 1.9781 dollars (1.9776).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold jumped to 664.25
dollars per ounce, from 658.25 dollars late on Monday.

