

A young Romanian woman who escaped from a Athens brothel helped
Greek police break up a forced prostitution ring exploiting her
compatriots, police announced Tuesday.


Officers arrested two Greeks and two Romanians on suspicion of
trafficking in women, after being tipped off by the escapee.


Wearing only her underwear, the woman had escaped from the
brothel on Sunday, hailed a taxi and asked to be taken to the
police.


The gang recruited young Romanian women by promising them work as
maids at 500 euros (xxx dollars) a month, said police.


Their fare to Athens was paid for them, but once they arrived at
the airport they were locked in an appartment in the central
Pangrati district before being taken to brothels, which operate
legally in Greece.


The escaped woman told police that she had been held along with
two other Romanian women. Greek police are cooperating with their
colleagues in Romania.


Last year, Greek police handled 70 cases of human trafficking, of
which 66 involved forced prostitution, according to justice
ministry figures.


It freed 83 victims, most of them Russian, Romanian and
Bulgarian, and arrested 199 suspects including 142 Greeks.


Rights groups working in this field have criticised the lack of
care for the victims, the impunity and the slowness of the courts
in processing such cases and the light sentences handed down.


Last year, 44 suspected traffickers were placed in custody and 29
caught in the act jailed, while 126 were freed.


"The government of Greece took modest steps to improve protection
for victims of trafficking over the last year," the 2006 US State
Department report into trafficking of persons noted.


"However, many aspects of the government's protection framework
remained unimplemented," it added.

