

The mother of one of the British captives in Iran voiced her
shock Tuesday at seeing her son on television after he was shown
apparently confessing to trespassing in Iranian waters.


Royal Navy Lieutenant Felix Carman, 26, appeared in footage
broadcast Sunday by Iran's state-run Arabic station Al-Alam,
standing before a map of the northern Gulf, where he and 14 other
service personnel were seized at gunpoint on March 23.


His mother Alison Carman said she and her husband Paul sat
watching television through the night to catch a glimpse of their
son.


"It was a shock to see him on television but we were glad to see
he looked fit and well," she told the South Wales Evening Post
regional newspaper.


"I am pleased he looked very healthy.


"We are in touch with the Ministry of Defence on a daily basis
and they are keeping us in touch with any news."


"He is an incredibly optimistic person and I know he will remain
positive throughout this, chivvying along his mates as well."


She was speaking at the family home in Port Eynon, south Wales.
Her officer son was a local coastguard before joining the Royal
Navy four years ago.


She saw the naval lieutenant off from Plymouth, southwest
England, when his ship HMS Cornwall left for the Gulf in January.


"He showed us around his cabin and I remember saying to him:
'Come back home safely'."


Neighbours have sent sympathy messages.


In the video footage, Felix Carman pointed at a map of the
northern Gulf, detailing an Iranian version of the British
sailors' location when they were captured.


Britain insists they were in Iraqi territorial waters.


"I operate out of frigate Foxtrot-99 (HMS Cornwall) using two sea
boats that look like this called Pacifics. And we were arrested
in this location here," Carman said.


After an edit, he added: "Yes, I'd like to say to the Iranian
people I can understand why you're so angry about our intrusion
into your waters."

