

British Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett urged caution Tuesday
over hopes of a "swift resolution" to the crisis involving 15
naval personnel captured by Iran.


"I would urge you to be cautious in assuming that we are likely
to see a swift resolution to this issue," she told reporters.


"We are not seeking confrontation. We are seeking to pursue this
through diplomatic channels."


Beckett was speaking after Prime Minister Tony Blair said that
the next 48 hours would be "critical" in the stand-off and Tehran
seemed to take a more conciliatory tone.


"London has changed its attitude for several days now and is
acting on the basis of negotiations," Iran's Vice President
Parviz Davoudi said.


"London must give guarantees and say that there was a violation
and there will be no other errors in the future. I think that the
problem is heading in this direction and God willing will be
resolved soon."


Beckett played down the possibility of military action after
Blair said that Britain would take "increasingly tougher
decisions" if there was no progress.


"We are not seeking confrontation. We are seeking to pursue this
through diplomatic channels," she added.


The foreign secretary also said she was studying comments made by
Ali Larijani, Iran's top security advisor, on British television
Monday.


He said there was "no need" for the group to face trial and the
situation was "quite resolvable."


Beckett said Britain and Iran shared "the preference" for
bilateral discussions and that his comments were being followed
up with the Iranian authorities.


The Foreign Office could not immediately confirm that the Iranian
ambassador to London was meeting Foreign Office minister Lord
David Triesman on Tuesday evening for the eighth time.

