

Prime Minister Stephen Harper said Tuesday that he and his family
will join thousands of Canadians in France next week to honor the
memory of Canadian soldiers killed during a World War I battle.


Harper, along with Britain's Queen Elizabeth II and French Prime
Minister Dominique de Villepin, will lay a wreath on April 9 at
the Canadian National Vimy Memorial, near Arras, in northern
France.


The event will commemorate the 90th anniversary of the battle of
Vimy Ridge, when 3,598 Canadian Corps troops were killed and
6,500 injured over four days of fighting as they seized control
of the ridge from German soldiers in 1917.


This year will be the first time since 1917 that April 9 falls on
Easter Monday.


The battle "was a critical victory for the Allies in the First
World War and it was an important milestone for Canada," Harper
said in a statement.


"Our young country came of age as an independent nation that day
and I am extremely proud to represent Canada at the 90th
anniversary."


The victory was a vital strategic breakthrough that had eluded
their British and French allies for two years, Harper said.


The battle also marked the first time all four Divisions of the
Canadian Corps had gone into battle together.


The delegation, which will also include the British monarch's
husband, Prince Philip, will hold a minute of silence and the
Last Post -- the bugle call performed at military funerals --
will be played, said Buckingham Palace.


The day's events will also include a parade of flaming torches.


Hundreds of high school students wearing replica World War I
tunics stitched with the name of a soldier who fought in the
conflict are also expected to attend the dedication of the newly
restored memorial.


Harper will also attend a parade in Arras on April 7, and an
Easter Sunday dinner with Canadian veterans from various wars.

