

Afghan President Hamid Karzai pledged Friday to make no more
hostage deals with the Taliban, saying the one he made last month
to free an Italian journalist was an "extraordinary" situation.


Karzai ordered the release of five Taliban prisoners, including
some high- profile figures, in March in a controversial deal
which resulted in the freedom of kidnapped Italian reporter
Daniele Mastrogiacomo.


"It was a very difficult situation. The Italian government could
have collapsed any time," Karzai told a press conference in
Kabul.


"Despite knowing what would be the consequences of this, we
handed over some Taliban prisoners and (they) freed the Italian
journalist."


Since then the militants have kidnapped ten other people, thought
to include two French aid workers who went missing in restive
southwestern Afghanistan on Tuesday.


The militants are still holding five Afghan medical workers they
captured last week in southern Kandahar. Mastrogiacomo's Afghan
colleague, captured with him, is also being held.


Karzai rejected suggestions from Afghan journalists that the
Italian deal would open the floodgates for further kidnappings.


"It was an extraordinary situation and won't be repeated again,"
he said. "No more deals with no one and with no other country."


The president said that his deal, which was widely criticized
both within and outside Afghanistan, was also justified because
of the Italian government's support for his war-torn country.


"Italy has some 1,800 troops in Afghanistan. They're building our
roads. This was their right to ask us for help and we should have
responded positively," Karzai said.


The Italian troops are serving under the NATO-led International
Security Assistance Force (ISAF), which is combating a fierce
insurgency led by the Taliban.

