

Former all-rounder Ravi Shastri may double up as manager-coach on
India's tour of Bangladesh next month following Greg Chappell's
exit after the World Cup, officials said on Friday.


Shastri's name was recommended by former captains during a
meeting with Indian cricket chiefs here to discuss the fallout of
India's first round ouster from the World Cup in the Caribbean.


"Shastri has sought some time to reply to our proposal," an
official of the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI)
said.


It is expected that Shastri's appointment as interim coach and
manager will be ratified at the working committee meeting of the
BCCI here on Saturday.


Chappell, the former Australian captain, did not extended his
two-year stint as coach which ended with the World Cup, citing
"family and personal reasons."


Shastri, 44, widely regarded as a shrewd thinker of the game,
became a television commentator after retiring from international
cricket in 1992.


A right-hand batsman and left-arm spinner, Shastri played 80 Test
matches in which he scored 3,830 runs and claimed 151 wickets.


He also made 3,108 runs and took 129 wickets in 150 one-day
internationals.


Shastri led India in one Test match, securing victory over the
West Indies on an underprepared wicket in Chennai in 1988 where
debutant Narendra Hirwani grabbed 16 wickets.


Shastri, usually a dour batsman, hit spinner Tilak Raj for six
sixers in an over in a first-class match in 1985, only the second
man to achieve the feat after West Indian great Garfield Sobers.


South African batsman Herschelle Gibbs became the first batsman
to hit six sixers in an over in an international match during the
ongoing World Cup.


India will play two Tests and three one-day internationals on the
tour of Bangladesh starting on May 10.

