

The chairman of Telecom Italia, Guido Rossi, resigned Friday amid
moves by the operator's main shareholder, the holding company
Olimpia, to oust him.


The resignation, which comes as the US giant ATT and its Mexican
affiliate are bidding to take over Olimpia, will have "immediate
effect," Telecom Italia said in a statement.


On Wednesday, Olimpia dropped 76-year-old Rossi from a proposed
list of new directors to be selected on April 16, sparking an
open battle among shareholders.


Rossi has locked horns with Marco Tronchetti Provera, chairman of
the tire group Pirelli, which set up Olimpia with the apparel
maker Benetton.


He had threatened to resign on several occasions.


Pirelli is in exclusive talks to sell the stake owned by Olimpia
in Telecom Italia to ATT and its Mexican affiliate America Movil.


Press reports say Rossi was unaware that Pirelli, which owns 80
percent of Olimpia, had decided to negotiate with the North
American bidders.


Rossi was propelled to the leadership of Telecom Italia in
September last year after Tronchetti Provera resigned from the
job following a disagreement with the Italian government over
strategy at Italia Telecom.


Commentors have noted the unusual nature of the board room
tussle, with former chairman Tronchetti Provera trying to remove
his successor.


But the two men's falling out is complete, according to an
interview published Friday by the daily La Repubblica.


"I don't think I'll show up" at the April 16 general assembly,
said Rossi.


"What would I do in the middle of a list of administrators
designated to obey someone who has invested 0.6 percent of the
capital and pretends to control the company?" he asked, referring
to Tronchetti Provera.

