

British Prime Minister Tony Blair, a self-confessed computer
illiterate, on Friday launched his governing Labour Party's new
channel on YouTube, in a bid to reconnect with younger voters.


Although he will not be in office to seek the more computer-savvy
youth vote at the next general election, Blair makes a 58-second
introduction -- apparently off-the-cuff -- to
www.youtube.com/labourvision.


The channel will allow anyone interested to log on and watch
coverage of events and interviews and direct contact with senior
party figures at a time when technology is seen as a vital part
of all parties' communications arsenal.


"The purpose of coming into the YouTube channel is to enable you
to hear unmediated, fresh, first-hand what it is we're about,"
said Blair, dressed in shirt, tie and jacket in what looks and
sounds like a Labour party office.


In a recent interview with the British actor and writer Stephen
Fry published on Blair's own website, the prime minister admitted
that he was not the most technologically capable in the British
government.


But he vowed: "It is something that when I leave I am going to
have to devote a lot of time to."


Last year, the leader of Britain's main opposition Conservative
Party, David Cameron, launched his own online video diary, "The
WebCameron".


The first footage showed him pottering about in his kitchen,
washing up and occasionally being interrupted by his young
children.


Commentators said it was an attempt by the private school-
educated Tory, who has distant links to Queen Elizabeth II
through the illegitimate daughter of king William IV, to portray
himself as a "man of the people".


What they will make of Blair -- whose other YouTube appearances
are restricted to spoofs and send-ups -- is unclear.


The only comment posted as of mid-afternoon Friday was from a
"jamesmalexander2081": "I am pleased we have started using this
medium!"

