

Leading conservation groups urged an immediate global response to
a damning UN climate report unveiled Friday which predicted a
catastrophic future for millions of humans and other species.


"The urgency of this report, presented by the world's top
scientists, should be matched with an equally urgent response by
governments," said Hans Verolme, direcotr of the World Wildlife
Fund's global climate change programme.


"There's no escaping the facts: global warming will bring hunger,
floods and water shortages. Poor countries that bear the least
responsibility will suffer most -- and they have no money to
respond."


The report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
(IPCC), the UN's top expert authority on global warming, said up
to 30 percent of animal and plant species will be vulnerable to
extinction if global temperatures rose by 1.5-2.5 C (2.7 F to 4.5
F).


It said the world's have-nots would be worst hit by the climate
change, predicting greenhouse gases would change rainfall
patterns, intensify tropical storms, accelerate the melting of
Arctic ice and mountain glaciers, and amplify the risk of
drought, flooding and water stress.


The Friends of the Earth asked the world's rich nations to cut
emissions to avert a looming "humanitarian catastrophe."


"Unless we take action ... far worse is yet to come, condening
millions in the poorest parts of the world to loss of lives,
livelihoods and homes. Climate change is no longer just an
environmental issue," said Catherine Pierce, the group's climate
campaigner.


"It is a looming humanitarian catastrophe, ultimately threatening
our global security and survival," she said.


A reasearcher at Britain's Reading University said the impact
could be grim for industrialised northern Europe.


"Where we may get problems across the whole of Europe is with hot
summers like 2003 and that's particularly drastic for crops," Tim
Wheeler, an academic from the university's department of
agriculture said.

