

Malaysia on Friday threatened to control the price of cigarettes
to stop multinational tobacco sellers from lowering them to
encourage smoking and sales, state media reported.


Health Minister Chua Soi Lek said he had given JT International,
British American Tobacco, and Philip Morris two weeks to end what
he said was a price war after meeting with officials from the
companies.


"The health ministry views this price war seriously," Chua was
quoted as saying by the Bernama news agency.


"The government normally imposes high tax with the hope that when
prices of cigarettes go up, there will be a drop in the demand,
although we understand that at some stage it will encourage
smuggling," he said.


"But of late, it looks like efforts by the government are being
challenged by these companies with them drastically reducing
prices, some to unreasonable levels," he said.


The minister said that the price of cigarettes was only three
ringgit (0.87 dollars) for a packet of 20, before costs and taxes
are added, and that the low prices are thwarting government
efforts to discourage smoking.


A packet of cigarettes in Malaysia costs up to 7.50 ringgit after
taxes and costs.


Chua also threatened other actions against the companies, who
dominate the market in Malaysia, if they failed to cooperate.


"If they cannot cooperate and want to increase their cigarette
sales, it is time the ministry considers taking several actions,"
he said.


Actions could include compulsory registration with the ministry
so it can monitor tar and nicotine levels to ensure products meet
government standards, he said, according to Bernama.


The government may also enlarge health warnings, currently on the
side of most cigarette packets, to cover 60 percent of the boxes
to discourage smokers, he added.

