

Luigi Comencini, one of Italy's best known and prolific directors
who turned emotive stories of childhood and black comedies into
successful films, died at age 90, the Lucherini film studios
announced Friday.


Comencini was best known for his 1953 hit, "Bread, Love and
Dreams" starring Gina Lollobrigida and Vittorio De Sica, a film
that spawned two sequels and helped turned the page on Italy's
neorealism movement.


Comencini directed 50 movies -- including "Traffic Jam" in 1979
and "Misunderstood" in 1966 -- many of which focused on the
plight of children and the working man. He also wrote about 40
screenplays.


He paired the American actress Bette Davis with Alberto Sordi in
the semi-black comedy "The Millionairess" in 1972.


Street children were at the centre of Comencini's early career,
with "Children in Cities" in 1946 followed three years later by
"Stealing Forbidden."


The theme would be a common thread throughout his work, notably
with the films "Misunderstood" (1966) and "Giacomo Casanova:
Childhood and Adolescence" (1969).


Despite his talent, Comencini was not in the top echelon of
Italian cinema.


"I made too many different films for people to be able to
recognise me at first glance," he once said. "(Federico) Fellini
is a successful filmmaker: the name is identified with the
product, it's like soap."


Born in 1916 at Salo, near the northern town of Brescia,
Comencini studied in Paris and at the Milan school of
architecture. He was a cinema critic before launching his career
as a director in 1946.


Comencini retired from the cinema in 1989, but his daughters
Cristina and Francesca picked up the baton.


Cristina Comencini's "La Bestia nel Cuore" (Don't Tell) won
several awards at the 2005 Venice International Film Festival and
was an Academy Award nominee for Best Foreign Language Film.


Then "A Casa Nostra" (Our Country) by Francesca Comencini won
critical acclaim last year.

