

Aston Villa coach Martin O'Neill said on Friday he hoped England
was not returning to the dark days of hooliganism after incidents
concerning Manchester United and Tottenham fans in Rome and
Seville earlier this week.


His fears come after both United and Spurs were involved in ugly
scenes during Champions League and UEFA Cup matches in Italy and
Spain.


The Aston Villa boss said: "I would certainly hope we are not
returning to the dark days. You would hope the last few nights
would be isolated cases.


"Certainly talking about British fans, Celtic, for instance in
2003, descended upon Seville, taking 80,000 people and I think
there were about three arrests.


"If ever there was a show where people could come and behave and
enjoy themselves at the same time that was it. Now I know that
might be the exception.


"These things have reared their head at a time when we felt the
British game had sorted its problems out.


"You can only tell from the pictures but I must admit there
looked to be a fair degree of provocation in terms of where the
police were positioned, which side of the perspex divide, in
Roma.


"I didn't see the pictures properly from Seville but certainly we
have seen that the Roma fans were being guarded by stewards, and
the policemen armed with batons were in the Manchester United
area."


English hooliganism reached a head in 1985 in Brussels when the
deaths of 32 Italians, 4 Belgians, 2 French and 1 Irishman
happened in a crush that followed a charge by Liverpool hooligans
toward Juventus fans before the European Cup final in the Heysel
stadium.

