

Rwanda's first post-genocide president, Pasteur Bizimungu, was
Friday freed from prison where he was serving a 15-year sentence
for crimes that included fanning ethnic hostility, a justice
ministry official said.


"I can confirm that he has been released this morning," the
official told AFP, requesting anonymity.


Bizimungu's release comes the day before ceremonies to mark the
13th anniversary of the start of the Rwandan genocide of ethnic
Tutsis by Hutu extremists.


Bizimungu, a figurehead president between 1994 and 2000, was
jailed for 15 years in June 2004 after being found guilty of
incitement to civil disobedience, embezzling state funds and
criminal association.


The Supreme Court last year rejected his appeal alongside that of
former transport minister Charles Ntakirutinka, who was jailed
for 10 years, but freed six others who had been convicted with
them.


They had all appealed on the grounds that the case was political
and had been mishandled by the trial court.


The incitement to civil disobedience charge covers the accusation
that Bizimungu, a member of the country's Hutu majority, was
encouraging hostility towards the small Tutsi minority.


Over the course of 100 days in 1994, around 800,000 people in
Rwanda, most of them Tutsis, were slaughtered in a genocidal
campaign planned and orchestrated by the Hutu government in power
at the time.


In July of that year, a Tutsi rebel group, the Rwandan Patriotic
Front, led by Paul Kagame, now president, seized power in Kigali,
putting an end to the genocide.

