

US negotiators left Beijing on Friday without resolving a
financial sanctions dispute that has held up efforts to end North
Korea's nuclear programme, the US embassy said.


Senior US Treasury official Daniel Glaser and his colleagues left
after 13 days of talks, however a deadline for North Korea to
close its main nuclear reactor by April 14 could still be
achieved, spokeswoman Susan Stevenson said.


"The US government team has departed to Washington but our
discussions in common with all parties continue," Stevenson said.


"We still believe it is possible to meet the 60-day deadline (to
close the reactor) and we are working with other parties to
achieve that goal."


Glaser met with Chinese, North Korean, South Korean and Macau
officials during 13 days of talks here in an effort to arrange
the return to North Korea of about 25 million dollars frozen in a
Macau bank by US financial sanctions.


North Korea is demanding the return of the money before it will
cooperate further on the nuclear disarmament accord it signed in
February.


The money was frozen in the Banco Delta Asia in Macau in 2005
after the US Treasury accused the bank of helping North Korea
launder earnings from illicit activities.


The United States has agreed to free up the funds, which were
supposed to be transferred within a month after the February 13
nuclear deal was signed to a North Korean account with the Bank
of China.


However, the state-owned lender has reportedly refused to accept
the money for fear of possibly affecting its credit rating.


Further complicating matters, some of the money also belongs to
individuals, rather than the North Korean government.


Glaser, the US deputy assistant Treasury secretary for terrorist
financing and financial crimes, is expected to return to Beijing
for further talks but no time has been agreed, according to a US
official.

