

Paul-Henri Mathieu battled back from a set down to give France
the first point of the Davis Cup quarter-final tie against the
hosts Russia here on Friday, beating Nikolay Davydenko of Russia.


Mathieu, 56th in the ATP rankings, won 2-6, 6-2, 6-1, 7-5 in
three hours to record his second win over the 25-year-old
Davydenko in their five head-to-head meetings.


"It's always very hard for me to play against Russia," Mathieu
said after the match. "Today it was also tough but I managed to
resist the pressure and win.


"In the opening set I was not playing my best tennis but after
that I added power and precision to my playing and went into the
lead. And of course I would like to thank our fans for their
support."


Davydenko, who is fourth in the ATP race, looked confident right
from the start, breaking his opponent's serve twice in the opeing
set to put himself 1-0 up after 33 minutes.


But in the second set, 25-year-old Mathieu broke early for a
comfortable 3-0 lead, which he later increased with another break
to level at one set all after one hour 12 minutes on court.


In the third set, Mathieu was in complete command breaking twice
from the start and went 5-0 up before Davydenko chalked up his
first game allowing the Frenchman to clinch a 2-1 advantage after
one hour 49 minutes of playing.


Mathieu broke halfway into the fourth set for a 4-2 lead.
Davydenko broke back in the seventh game to level at 4-4 but then
Mathieu broke again in the 11th game to take the set and the
match.


Later on Friday, Mikhail Youzhny of Russia was trying to pull the
scores level in a clash with France's Richard Gasquet.

