

China and Japan began talks Friday on disputed resource-rich
parts of the East China Sea, ahead of a visit by Chinese premier
Wen Jiabao to Tokyo next week, a Japanese embassy spokesman said.


"A meeting of technical experts is held today in Beijing. A
division chief of Japan's energy agency has come to Beijing and a
Japanese delegation is engaged in technical-experts level
discussions today," he told reporters.


The spokesman did not say how long the talks in Beijing will last
or identify the Chinese participants.


"We hope Mr Wen Jiabao's visit will give good stimulus to
eventually resolve this issue in a good way," the spokesman said,
referring to the Chinese premier's three-day visit to Japan from
April 11.


China and Japan, two of the world's biggest energy importers,
have long argued over their sea border, one of the main sources
of friction between them.


Beijing started test-drilling in gas fields in the sea in 2003,
provoking outrage in Tokyo, which fears Beijing might siphon off
resources from an area Japan claims as its own.


However, the two countries might resort to joint development of
the fields to solve the row.


"We more or less came to share common understanding that may be
joint development is possibly a way out," the spokesman said,
referring to the latest round of talks between the two countries
in Tokyo late last month.


"Toward joint development, we should continue our discussion," he
said.


Japan's Nikkei business newspaper reported in March that Japan
was ready to compromise by agreeing to joint development of a
broad area in the East China Sea.


The spokesman added that China and Japan are expected to formally
agree to establish a mechanism of high level economic dialogue,
similar to that between China and the United States.


"Our assumption is that during Wen Jiabao's visit to Japan next
week, we will officially agree to create such (a) mechanism of
high level economic dialogues," he said.

