

British authorities have arrested the head of a bank at the
centre of Algeria's biggest corruption scandal at the request of
the French authorities, the Metropolitan Police said Friday.


A force spokeswoman said Rafik Khalifa, who was sentenced in
absentia to life in prison by an Algerian court on March 22, was
arrested in the British capital on March 27.


"Rafik Abdelmoumen Khalifa, 40, of no fixed abode, was arrested
by the Met's Extradition Unit in west London," she said in a
statement.


"He was arrested under a European arrest warrant issued by the
French authorities under the offences of conspiracy to money
launder, breach of trust and fraudulent bankruptcy."


Khalifa, who has been exiled in London since 2003 when hundreds
of millions of dollars was discovered missing from the Khalifa
Bank, was due to appear at the City of Westminster Magistrates
Court in central London that day.


The Met spokeswoman told AFP Khalifa was still in Britain but had
no information as to the outcome of the hearing.


A court in Blida, southern Algeria, sentenced Khalifa to life in
prison for a variety of offences, including fraud, embezzlement,
theft and forgery.


The exiled former governor of the central bank, Abdelawahab
Keramane, and five others were also sentenced in absentia to 20
years in prison.


Khalifa's wife received a 10-year sentence, as did former
industry minister Abdennour Keramane and his daughter Yasmine,
the former representative of Khalifa Airways in Milan, Italy.


The court also ordered the seizure of the assets of all those
convicted.


Khalifa was previously arrested by British police on suspicion of
money- laundering in February and given bail until May.


Algeria and Britain have an extradition treaty but lawyers have
warned that an extradition process involving Khalifa could be
lengthy.

