

The Nigerian electoral agency INEC is organising seminars on
electoral crimes and violence ahead of the April 14 and 21 poll
across the country, the agency said in a statement on Friday.


Local media carry daily reports on election-related violence
which has claimed tens of lives.


"The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) said that
it has invited the police and other security agencies involved in
the conduct of the poll to the seminars on security management of
election.


Participants in the seminars will discuss electoral offences, the
role of the police, human rights groups and security agencies in
the conduct of free and fair elections, the INEC statement said.


The seminars are funded by several international organisations
including the EU and the UNDP.


Human Rights Watch (HRW) warned on Wednesday here that the
Nigerian government's "partisan meddling in the electoral process
and its unwillingness" to tackle political violence could
undermine this month's poll.


"It seems plain that on April 14 and 21, Nigerian voters will
again face the threat of violence, intimidation and fraud," the
HRW said in its latest report


The report said that the Nigerian government has so far failed to
put in place some of the basic foundations for free and fair
election.


An HRW official in Nigeria, Chris Albin-Lackey, told journalists
at the release of the report that since last November more than
100 people have lost their lives in about 170 incidents of
election-related violence.


The report criticised the police for allegedly failing to make
any serious effort to investigate or prosecute politicians
responsible for mobilising violence ahead of the elections.


The Nigerian government has rejected in its entirety the HRW
report.


State governorship and State assembly polls are scheduled for
April 14 while presidential and National Assembly elections are
fixed for April 21.

