

British pop singer Gary Glitter will seek another reduction of
his Vietnam prison sentence for child molestation during an
amnesty to mark Liberation Day on April 30, his lawyer said
Friday.


"My client will certainly submit a letter asking for another six
month reduction of his prison term once the Vietnamese
authorities announce the plan for amnesty on Liberation Day,"
said his lawyer Le Thanh Kinh.


The disgraced 1970s pop star has been behind bars since November
2005 and was found guilty in March last year of committing
obscene acts with two girls, then aged 11 and 12, in the southern
Vietnamese resort town of Vung Tau.


A Vietnamese court in February reduced his term by three months,
moving forward the 62-year-old's release date to August 2008.


Vietnam routinely announces amnesties on special occasions, also
including the September 2 National Day and the Tet traditional
lunar new year which usually falls in late January or early
February.


Under Vietnamese law, Glitter must serve at least half his term
-- or one- and-a-half years, including time behind bars before
his trial -- meaning his earliest possible release date would be
this May.


"Glitter is now healthy in jail," Kinh said. "He spends much of
his time cutting trees."


Upon his release, Glitter, whose real name is Paul Francis Gadd,
will be deported either to his home country or any other nation
that will accept him, the court had decided.


He was arrested at Ho Chi Minh City airport in November 2005
while trying to leave Vietnam. He was later charged with child
molestation in Vung Tau, a beachside and oil industry town
notorious for its red light bars.


The former "glam rocker," once famed in Britain for his
flamboyant bouffant wigs and silver jumpsuits, had several hits
in the 1970s including "I'm The Leader Of The Gang (I Am!)" and
"Do You Wanna Touch Me?"

