

A United Nations report on the potentially devastating effects of
global warming provides new backing for the European Union's
policy to limit climate change, the EU's executive body said
Friday.


EU leaders agreed tough targets last month for reducing emissions
of the gases that cause global warming, with the aim of limiting
the rise in temperature to below two degrees Celcius, compared to
pre-industrial levels.


The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) said in its
report Friday that up to 30 percent of animal and plant species
will be vulnerable to extinction if global temperatures rise by
1.5-2.5 C (2.7 F to 4.5 F).


"The report shows many of the serious impacts that would occur if
global warming exceeded the EU's target of not more than two
degrees Celcius above the pre- industrial level," European
Environment Commissioner Stavros Dimas said.


"The temperature today is already almost 0.8 degrees Celcius
above that level, so the world needs to act fast if we are to
succeed in stabilising climate change and thereby prevent its
worst impacts," he said in a statement.


The report predicted greenhouse gases would change rainfall
patterns, intensify tropical storms, accelerate the melting of
Arctic ice and mountain glaciers, and amplify the risk of
drought, flooding and water stress.


"Today's IPCC report spells out very clearly the severe effects
that climate change will have on all of us," Dimas said.


"This further underlines both how urgent it is to reach global
agreement on reducing greenhouse gas emissions and how important
it is for us all to adapt to the climate change that is already
under way," he said.

