

German Chancellor Angela Merkel said the damning UN report on
climate change released Friday proved the urgent need to cut
greenhouse-gas emissions and vowed to raise the issue with G8
leaders.


"This report confirms that climate change is a fact," Merkel told
Saturday's edition of the Sueddeutsche Zeitung.


"We therefore need to act rapidly and decisively to bring down
the rate at which temperatures are increasing worldwide and to
curb the levels of carbon dioxide emissions."


Merkel added: "I will raise the issue at the G8 summit in
Heiligendamm in June. My aim is to make all nations take
responsibility for climate protection."


Merkel, whose country holds the presidency of the G8, is hosting
fellow  leaders of the club of wealthy nations in Heiligendamm,
on the Baltic Sea, from June 6-8. UN chief Ban Ki-moon has said
he would also raise the issue of global warming at the summit
talks.


The United Nations' Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
(IPCC) warned in a landmark report that climate change is set to
inflict damage in every continent.


It predicted that poor nations will be worst-hit by weather
changes and that up to a third of all species could face
extinction if global temperatures rise by 1.5-2.5 degrees Celsius
(2.7 to 4.5 Fahrenheit).


The deputy chairman of the European Parliament's environment
committee, Satu Hassi, on Friday urged Merkel to use the G8
summit to get major industrialised powers on board in the fight
against climate change.


Merkel has made it clear that she wants to push for a new global
climate protection treaty along the lines of the Kyoto Protocol
for curbing greenhouse- gas emissions that expires in 2012.


The United States, who along with China and Saudi Arabia insisted
that the wording of the IPCC report be softened, abandoned Kyoto
in 2001.

