

Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas said Friday he was confident
Gaza militants would soon release Israeli soldier Gilad Shalit
and an abducted BBC journalist, in a French television interview.


"I would like to say that we are working to secure Shalit's
release and that these efforts will soon bear fruit. We are
optimistic. He will be released soon," Abbas told the France 24
news channel.


Shalit was abducted in a cross-border raid on June 25 by
militants from three Palestinian groups, including the armed wing
of Hamas, and there has been no sign of life from him since.


"I am convinced we must free the soldier Shalit. He cannot remain
imprisoned all this time," he said in the interview to be
broadcast later Friday.


"At the same time, we say to the Israelis that they must free the
Palestinian prisoners. But one thing does not depend on the
other. Shalit must be released."


Abbas also said he was "certain" that abducted British BBC
correspondent Alan Johnston was alive and would be "released
shortly".


"We are in permanent contact with the British government, with
the foreign ministry. We have discussed with them the conditions
of his (Johnston's) kidnapping and his release," Abbas said.


"We are progressing step by step and I am absolutely certain that
he will be released shortly, and of course, that he will go
home," the Palestinian leader said.


Johnston, 44, is now in his fourth week of captivity after he was
abducted at gunpoint in Gaza City on March 12 -- the longest a
kidnapped westerner has been kept in the increasingly lawless
territory.


Pressure on Palestinian leaders to secure Johnston's release has
mounted in recent days as local journalists staged rallies in the
West Bank and Gaza and declared a three-day reporting boycott on
all government activities.


Johnston was the British broadcaster's main correspondent in Gaza
for the past three years. His posting in Gaza is due to end this
month.

