

Indonesia's critically endangered Sumatran rabbit has been
spotted for only the fourth time since 1972, a conservationist
said Friday.


The nocturnal animal, also known as the striped rabbit, was
photographed by a camera trap in January this year in a national
park on Sumatra island, said Frida Mindasari Saanin from the
Wildlife Conservation Society.


"Very little is known about this species. We don't know how many
of them are living in the wild," she said.


It was the second time the society had seen the grey-brown
rabbit, which has black stripes running across its face and body.


The creature hides during daytime by snuggling into burrows or
next to tree trunks in the lush tropical forests rolling across
the Barisan Mountains, its only habitat.


"Before this we found it in 2000 in the same park when we were
surveying tigers," she said of the elusive 35-centimetre
(14-inch) long animal, whose environment is threatened by
agriculture.


There was another sighting in 1972, according to the
International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural
Resources. Saanin said the rabbit was also seen by a different
conservation group in 1998.


Sumatra's montane forests are home to some of the most endangered
species in the world, including the Sumatran rhinoceros and
tiger.


Scientists say the sun-dappled island may also contain species
yet to be identified. Last month a clouded leopard found in the
rainforests of Borneo and Sumatra was declared a new species of
big cat.

