

The United States acknowledged the "global challenge" posed by
climate change, after a major report on Friday by UN experts
warned of devastating damage to all continents from global
warming.


"Climate change is clearly a global challenge and we all
recognize that it requires global solutions," said Sharon Hays,
leader of the US delegation at the Intergovernemental Panel on
Climate Change (IPCC) after the unveiling of a summary of a major
IPCC technical report in Brussels.


"But most impacts of climate change will be felt very
regionally," she added.


The report warned that climate change is set to hit poor
countries hardest, and threatens nearly a third of the world's
species with extinction.


Global warming is set to inflict damage in every continent, and
in the Americas would power up tropical storms and heatwaves in
the north and threaten hunger and extinction of species in the
south.


"The key message there, I think, is that these projected impacts
are expected to get more pronounced at higher temperatures," Hays
said.


Draft versions of the summary were fiercely disputed during a
week of tense negotiations. Publication was delayed after the
United States, China and Saudi Arabia objected to the tough
wording of certain parts.


At US insistence, summary drafters dumped a paragraph that said
North America was "expected to experience severe local economic
damage and substantial ecosystem, social and cultural
disruption," delegates in Brussels said.


"We know that societies are going to need to and, indeed, are
able to lessen the impacts of climate change through adaptation"
to lessen the harmful effects of climate change, Hays said.


"Not all regions of the world have the same capacity to adapt.
And I think it's also important to point out that in some cases,
natural adaptation is also occurring."

