

Homeless people in Japan are declining in number thanks to the
nation's economic recovery, but they are getting greyer on
average and less eager to search for jobs, an official report
said Friday.


The number of homeless people nationwide fell 26.7 percent in
four years to 18,564 as of January, the Health, Labour and
Welfare Ministry said in a survey on another side of the world's
number-two economic power.


"The economic recovery has helped improve the employment
situation. Local governments have also stepped up support for
homeless people's self-reliance since 2002," a ministry official
said.


Japan is in the midst of its longest post-World War II expansion
as the economy recovers from recession in the 1990s.


In 2002, the national government enforced a law urging local
prefectural and municipal administrations to take measures to
help the homeless find jobs and provide them with houses.


The survey, the first since 2003, asked local officials to count
homeless people in places such as parks, train stations,
roadsides and riversides, the ministry said.


By city, the number of homeless was the largest in Osaka with
4,911, down 36.7 percent from the year 2003, followed by Tokyo
with 4,690, down 26.3 percent, and Kanagawa prefecture which
includes Yokohama with 2,020, up 4.8 percent.


In Aichi, where booming car giant Toyota and its affiliates are
concentrated, the number declined 48.2 percent to 1,023.


The homeless population in parks particularly dropped from 10,310
to 5,702.


In the survey, officials interviewed random samples of 2,049
homeless people across the country.


Their average age was 57.5 years, up 1.6 years from 2003.


Of them, 41.4 percent have been homeless for five years or more,
up from the 2003 ratio of 24.0 percent.


Some 60 percent said they were "not looking for jobs and do not
intend to do so," the report said. The ratio was 42 percent four
years ago.

