

The Greek coast guard on Friday took emergency measures off the
Aegean island of Santorini to prevent fuel from spilling out of a
cruise boat that sank there, prompting a major rescue operation.


The merchant marine ministry told AFP that a brown slick 100
metres (109 yards) in length appeared around the site of the
shipwreck, less than a nautical mile from the island harbour of
Thira.


"We do not have a problem yet, but we are preparing for any
eventuality," the ministry's director of marine environment
operations Ilias Sambadakakis told reporters.


"We have sent four anti-pollution vessels to the area, and we
will have patrols there on a daily basis."


A special net initially installed around the ship was dragged
below the water when it sank, Sambadakakis said.


The island of Santorini is a major travel destination attracting
hundreds of thousands of visitors every year.


The Greek-flagged cruise ship, the Sea Diamond, listed
dangerously after hitting a reef half a nautical mile offshore as
it was preparing to dock at Santorini.


The ship sank early on Friday morning in a nearby bay where it
had been towed several hours after the passengers, most of them
from the United States, Spain and France, had been evacuated by
boats from the island and nearby ships.


Two French passengers, a 45-year-old man and his 16-year-old
daughter from Nantes, western France were missing.


Most of the passengers have returned to Athens on board other
cruise ships. A small number opted to spend the night on
Santorini.


Cyprus-based Louis Hellenic Cruise Lines, which operated the
143-metre (472-foot) Sea Diamond, had initially reported that all
passengers and crew had evacuated safely.


The ship was completing an Aegean cruise to the Greek islands of
Mykonos, Rhodes, Patmos and Crete and the Turkish coastal town of
Kusadasi.

