

Brazilian defender Roberto Carlos, who is leaving Real Madrid
after 11 years with the Spanish giants, says he was almost
"destroyed" by trauma in his personal life over the past two
years.


"I have had many personal problems these last two years. My agent
betrayed me, I separated from my wife. That almost destroyed me,
I was alone," the 34-year-old told sports daily AS on Friday.


"The football pitch was my relief. It is where I forgot
everything. The problem was when the match was over, that was
when I felt alone."


Carlos said this difficult period is behind him since his
daughter Roberta -- one of his seven children -- has come to live
with him in Madrid.


The veteran defender wants to leave the Bernabeu stadium with a
bang by helping Real to the Spanish title.


"It would be very beautiful. I say that to everyone in the locker
room. That way I would leave here with extra joy.


"The first year I was here we were champions but I didn't
celebrate because I was with my national team, now I would
celebrate until I drop."


Real Madrid are in third place in the 20-team Spanish league
standings with 51 points, five fewer than defending champions
Barcelona.


Last month Carlos announced he would leave Real Madrid at the end
of the season one year before his contract is due to expire.


Reflected on that decision he said: "If I go now it's because I
think it is the moment to do it, Madrid is not throwing me out.
They gave me the chance to renew, I tried to reach an agreement
but it was not possible. I am leaving with my head high."


The player said he still has not decided where he will play next
season.


"There are many possibilities. Turkey, Qatar, Dubai, England.
There are many offers. I prefer to finish the season, to have all
the facts and then I will announce where I will go."

