

The Bangladesh cricket chiefs will convene an emergency meeting
next week to discuss Dav Whatmore's future after he joined the
race to succeed Greg Chappell as new coach of India, an official
said.


"We've convened an emergency meeting of the board on April 10
when we will discuss the Dav Whatmore issue," Bangladesh Cricket
Board (BCB) general secretary Mahbub Anam said.


"We have read some of his interviews in the media. Before the
meeting, we will talk to him about these interviews and reports.
And then we will discuss all the issues in the meeting," he
added.


Whatmore has emerged among the frontrunners to succeed fellow
Australian Greg Chappell as coach of India, one of the hottest
and toughest jobs in cricket.


"I'm definitely interested," Whatmore told Thursday's Times of
India. Whatmore's contract with Bangladesh expires after the
World Cup.


Chappell quit his job following India's disastrous World Cup.


Whatmore, who coached Sri Lanka to World Cup victory in 1996, has
earned respect in Bangladesh after his young team pulled off a
string of victories against some of the world's top teams,
including a memorable defeat of India in the Caribbean.


Under him, the team won a place in the second round of the
ongoing World Cup, which triggered celebrations all over the
cricket-mad south Asian country.


"It was a tremendous performance. We set the goal of winning a
place in the Super Eight and we have just won that. Definitely it
was a great performance by the team and the coach," Anam said.


Anam, a leading businessman of the country, played a key role in
persuading Whatmore to take over Bangladesh in 2003.


"We had to chase him for months. Under him the team has grown. We
are no longer the same old team," he said, adding Whatmore made
"similar noises" when India picked up Chappell as its coach two
years back.


At that time, the local media reported that the BCB doubled
Whatmore's salary and added more perks to keep him in Bangladesh.

