

Here are the main points from the joint statement from the 15
British naval personnel held by Iran for 13 days at a news
conference Friday.


The statement was read by Royal Marine Captain Chris Air and
Royal Navy Lieutenant Felix Carman.


They said that:


-- the boarding and search of a vessel in the northern Gulf south
of the Shatt al-Arab waterway that led to their detention on
March 23 was done "in complete accordance" with the British
group's United Nations mandate.


-- navigational equipment and hand-held GPS showed their exact
location "well within" Iraqi waters. Both their support
helicopter and the British warship HMS Cornwall, on which they
were based, provided navigational back up.


-- Iranian Revolutionary Guards in two boats that approached them
were told they were conducting a routine operation and it was
allowed under a UN mandate.


-- the Iranians prevented them leaving and became aggressive,
indicating they had a "planned intent".


-- six more boats hemmed them in and prevented them from leaving.
The British surrendered as they realised they could not escape or
fight back without severe consequences.


-- they were blindfolded, stripped of kit and subject to "random
interrogations" throughout the night at a small naval base.


-- on March 24, they were flown to Tehran and taken to a prison,
had their hands bound and faced "constant psychological
pressure". They were kept in solitary confinement.


-- interrogations happened most nights and they were threatened
with seven years in prison unless they confessed to being in
Iranian territorial waters.


-- they were not allowed to gather as a group until the last few
nights.


-- they were transferred to a government complex blindfolded and
given three- piece suits to wear on day 12 (April 4).


-- they only realised they were going to be freed when watching
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's speech on television.


-- Iran's detention of the group was "clearly illegal".

