

East Timor's ruling party appealed on Friday for party supporters
to avoid causing unrest around Monday's presidential election.


It asked its own supporters as well as those of other parties to
act "with a high degree of tolerance and restraint."


The statement said about 40 Fretilin supporters had been
hospitalised since Wednesday in the capital Dili, the hilltop
town of Gleno south of Dili, and in East Timor's second city,
Baucau.


"Violence is a weapon of those who don't want democracy,"
Fretilin said.


The United Nations said at least 32 people were injured in
election-related clashes Wednesday in and around Dili, although
most of the two-week presidential campaign was peaceful.


Fretilin said its secretary general, Mari Alkatiri, visited the
injured in hospital on Friday.


Alkatiri and the party's presidential candidate, Francisco "Lu-
Olo" Guterres, expressed sympathy for the victims, regardless of
their political affiliation, it said.


Fretilin led the independence struggle against occupying
Indonesian forces, and won 57 percent of the vote in pre-
independence legislative elections.


The party retains a solid base of support but has also been
criticised for a lack of political openness and the use of
intimidation.


Guterres is considered a strong candidate to win the election,
along with Prime Minister Jose Ramos-Horta and a third candidate,
Fernando "Lasama" de Araujo, the chairman of the opposition
Democratic Party.


Ramos-Horta replaced Alkatiri last year after unrest that left at
least 37 people dead.


The election, the first since independence in 2002, is seeking a
replacement for President Xanana Gusmao, who is not seeking re-
election in the country formally known as Timor-Leste.

