

Chinese share prices rose 0.13 percent for another record finish
Friday despite a further hike in bank reserve requirements as the
government seeks to cool the fast growing economy, dealers said.


The People's Bank of China said Thursday the required deposit
reserve ratio for commercial lenders would rise by 0.5 percentage
points to 10.5 percent after two similar increases this year and
three in 2006.


Dealers said the market managed to shrug off early credit-
tightening fears and returned to positive territory on the back
of sustained strong fund inflows.


The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index, which covers both A- and
B-shares, added 4.45 points at 3,323.59. Turnover continued heavy
at 121.98 billion yuan (15.8 billion dollars).


The Shanghai A-share Index was up 4.59 points or 0.13 percent to
3,492.96 on turnover of 121.38 billion yuan and the Shenzhen
A-share Index put on 13.29 points or 1.45 percent at 929.39, also
a record, on turnover of 65.48 billion yuan.


"The market saw some corrections in early trade after the central
bank reserve ratio hike but the weakness was offset by recent
strength in the yuan that helped attract fresh funds," said Zeng
Bo, an analyst at Changjiang Securities.


Dealers said the reaction overall was very muted, contrary to
some forecasts that the market would have sold off more sharply,
with investors apparently seeing no threat in the central bank's
move.


They said the decision will remove some 170 billion yuan in
liquidity from the banking system but it seems unlikely to have
much of an impact after the market shrugged off the earlier
tightening and three interest rate hikes.


"Unless there is major market-impacting news, such as the US
launching military action against Iran, the stock market will
maintain its strength in the near future," said Wu Dazhong, an
analyst at Shenyin Wanguo Securities.


Property developers remained in demand on recent yuan strength.


The yuan ended at record high of 7.7220 against US dollar, up
from Thursday's finish at 7.7245.


Shanghai Lujiazui Finance Trade Zone Development was up 1.64 yuan
or 7.51 percent at 23.48 and Poly Real Estate Group added 2.57
yuan or 8.85 percent at 31.60.


Finance Street Holding rose by its 10 percent daily limit at
18.48 yuan. It said in a statement that first quarter net profit
under Chinese accounting standards has risen some 30 times.


Metal stocks were boosted by expectations of strong earnings
growth this year on high commodity prices, dealers said.


Yunnan Chihong Zinc Germanium rose by its 10 percent daily limit
at 116.58 yuan and Jilin Jien Nickel Industry was also up 10
percent at 40.27 yuan.


Banking stocks were pressured by the central bank move, with
Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC) down 0.10 yuan or
1.80 percent at 5.45.


The Shanghai B-share Index was up 0.86 points or 0.46 percent to
186.51 on turnover of 602.47 million US dollars and the Shenzhen
B-share Index rose 1.16 points or 0.22 percent at 539.54 on
turnover of 762.85 million Hong Kong dollars (98.69 million US
dollars).

