

Second-round play at the 71st Masters began in the morning chill
here Friday with co-leader Brett Wetterich and England's David
Howell among the early starters.


England's Justin Rose joined Wetterich atop the leaderboard after
Thursday's opening round, each firing three-under par 69s
although Rose was the only man among the 96 starters who went
bogey-free over Augusta National Golf Club.


Rose goes out in Friday's final group of the afternoon with two-
time Masters winner Jose Maria Olazabal of Spain and hometown
hero Charles Howell, more than six hours after Stewart Cink and
Todd Hamilton's 8:00 am first group.


Wetterich, trying to become the first Masters debutante to
capture a green jacket since Fuzzy Zoeller in 1979, tees off in
the sixth group with England's Lee Westwood and Australian Robert
Allenby.


Howell, who was level with American David Toms in third on 70, is
two groups farther back.


World number one Tiger Woods, seeking his 13th major title and
third major crown in a row at the year's first major
championship, has a morning start in hopoes of trying to bounce
back from an opening round 73.


Woods, a four-time winner at Augusta National, finished with
back-to-back bogeys to fall four strokes off the pace, but the
course is playing without rain for the first time in a decade and
holding deadly firm and fast.


As a result, no first-round leader's score at the Masters has
been higher than this year's in half a century.


Also among the early starters is India's Jeev Milkha Singh, who
fired a three- under par on the front nine to briefly seize the
lead in his Masters debut, the first appearance by any India
golfer in the event.


Defending champion Phil Mickelson tees off in the penultimate
group, two groups after reigning US Open champion Geoff Ogilvy of
Australia and South African Ernie Els. All three will try to
repair first-round damage.


Ogilvy was on 75, one stroke ahead of Mickelson and three better
than Els.

