

United Nations chief Ban Ki-moon on Friday welcomed the report by
the body's top experts on the devastating threat from climate
change, urging governments to act immediately to lessen the
impact.


The UN Secretary General "notes with concern that the impacts of
climate change are increasingly noticeable, and likely to become
more so in the future as extreme weather events intensify," Ban's
spokesman said in a statement welcoming the report by the
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC).


"Adequate, large-scale adaptation measures have the potential to
alleviate some of the worst consequences outlined in the report,
if governments take action without delay," said the statement
following the release in Brussels of a summary of the report
aimed at policy makers.


The spokesman said Ban hoped the 189 countries that signed the UN
Convention on Climate Change would make progress towards
developing a replacement to the accord when they meet in Bali,
Indonesia in December. The convention expires in 2012.


The major IPCC technical report warned that climate change is set
to inflict damage in every continent, hitting poor countries
hardest, and threatening nearly a third of the world's species
with extinction.


Draft versions of the summary were fiercely disputed during a
week of tense negotiations. Publication was delayed after the
United States, China and Saudi Arabia objected to the wording of
certain parts.

