

Sri Lanka's navy and Tamil Tiger rebels fought a sea battle off
the island's northwestern coast on Friday with both claiming
heavy losses for the other side.


Naval patrol craft engaged five boats of the Liberation Tigers of
Tamil Eelam (LTTE) off the coastal district of Puttalam and one
was sunk, a Sri Lankan military spokesman said.


"We believe one was carrying at least two suicide cadres and it
exploded and sank when we opened fire at it," the spokesman said,
adding the other four boats escaped.


A naval craft was damaged and a sailor was wounded during a
firefight, the spokesman said.


However, the Tigers denied they lost any craft and said only
three of their boats were involved in a 15-minute firefight.


"All three of our boats returned to base safely," LTTE spokesman
Rasiah Ilanthiriyan said by telephone from his office in the
rebel-held town of Kilinochchi.


"We have sunk one Sri Lankan navy inshore patrol craft," he said.


Tiger rebels had seen the navy taking away the bodies of seven
sailors killed in the confrontation, he said.


The navy insisted only one of their sailors was injured and there
were no fatalities.


The sea battle came two days after the Sri Lankan air force said
it had destroyed the main Sea Tiger headquarters. The Tigers
denied the air force claim and said a charity had been bombed by
aircraft.


The Sri Lankan air force suffered a humiliating blow last week
when Tiger light aircraft bombed its main base next to the
island's only international airport and managed to escape
unchallenged.


The LTTE has waged a 35-year campaign for independence that has
claimed more than 60,000 lives.


More than 4,000 people have been killed in the latest upsurge of
fighting that began in December 2005.

