

The head of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in
Europe, Spanish Foreign Minister Miguel Angel Moratinos, will
tour Central Asia and meet with national leaders next week, the
OSCE said.


The trip, from April 10 to 14, will focus notably on human rights
in a region where violations are commonplace.


Moratinos will meet with the leaders of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan,
Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan, OSCE deputy spokeswoman
Virginie Coulloudon said.


"The trip aims to fully engage Central Asia in the Organization's
work, and to further promote the values and commitments of OSCE
in the region," Coulloudon said.


Moratinos will begin his visit in Kazakhstan, which hopes to host
the rotating OSCE presidency in 2009 but is facing pressure from
the European Union to first implement democratic reforms.


He will meet among others President Nursultan Nazarbayev, who was
reelected in 2005 under circumstances criticised by the OSCE.


The OSCE chairman will travel to Turkmenistan on April 11 where
he will meet with President Gurbanguly Berdymukhammedov. The
latter, who was elected by 90 percent of the vote in February,
has received calls to open up the dictatorial regime set up by
his predecessor Saparmurat Niyazov.


Moratinos will then visit Uzbekistan, which is still under EU
sanctions following the bloody repression in Andijan in May 2005.


He will make a brief stop in Kyrgyzstan, a country still subject
to instability following elections in March 2005 regarded by the
OSCE as fraudulent. Protests are expected against President
Kurmanbek Bakiyev next week.


The OSCE chairman will end his trip in Tajikistan on April 14
with a meeting with President Emomali Rakhmonov. The organisation
ruled in November that the president's election had failed to
meet international democratic standards.


The OSCE promotes human rights, democratisation and conflict
prevention in its 56 member states in Europe, North America and
Central Asia.

