

Spain's government on Friday promised to carefully examine lists
of independent candidates being promoted by banned separatist
party Batasuna as a way of taking part in upcoming local
elections.


The party was banned from participating in elections in 2003 over
its links to armed Basque separatist group ETA, but this week
said it would register supporters with no official political
affiliations to stand as independents.


"The government is examining...with the greatest care all the
lists to establish their validity" under the law, Spanish Deputy
Prime Minister Maria Teresa Fernandez de la Vega told private
radio Cadena Ser.


"Only the lists that perfectly respect the law will be allowed to
participate in the elections," she said from an official visit in
China.


The daily El Pais newspaper, which is close to the ruling
Socialist Party, said on Friday that Batasuna's strategy might
fail as the interior ministry believed it had enough proof to ban
independent candidate lists.


The Spanish government has said Batasuna could only take part in
the local elections on May 27 if it gave an unequivocal statement
disowning ETA, whose 38 -year-old campaign for Basque
independence has claimed over 800 lives.


Batasuna set up a new party called Abertzale Sozialisten
Batasuna, which hoped to participate in the polls in the northern
Basque and Navarre regions, but Spanish prosecutors have asked
the Supreme Court to ban this party as well.


The European Union and the United States consider both Batasuna
-- which won about 10 percent of the vote in the 2001 municipal
elections in the Basque region -- and ETA to be terrorist
organisations.

