

Pakistani authorities Friday imposed an indefinite curfew in a
mountainous tribal town bordering Afghanistan after three people
died in fighting between rival Muslim sects, local officials
said.


Soldiers were called out after gunbattles between Sunni and
Shiite Muslims in Parachinar, a town in the semi-autonomous
Kurram region, local administration official Nasim Khan told AFP.


"Troops have taken up positions in the area and a curfew has been
imposed in the town," he said. "Fighting is still going on in
different parts of the city."


Three people died and 13 others were injured in the violence
Friday, hospital sources said.


Khan said trouble erupted on Friday when members of the minority
Shiite sect staged a demonstration outside their mosque against
local Sunnis who allegedly chanted anti-Shiite slogans during a
religious rally last week.


Rival groups went on the rampage in the main bazaar and torched a
commercial building and several shops, Khan said.


Parachinar, bordering eastern Afghanistan's Paktia province, has
a large Shiite population. Clashes between the two communities
over a shrine in the tribal areas last year left around 20 people
dead.


Sectarian violence involving Sunni and Shiite militants has
claimed more than 4,000 lives since the late 1980s. Shiites
account for about 20 percent of Pakistan's 160 million Sunni-
dominated population.


Authorities placed the northwestern Pakistani town of Tank under
curfew last week, after Taliban militants, trying to recruit
students to fight in Afghanistan, clashed with security forces.

