

Outgoing President Jacques Chirac has conferred France's highest
civilian honour, the Legion d'Honneur, on 160 French citizens
recognised by Israel as "righteous among the nations" for their
efforts to save Jews from the Nazis in World War II, officials
said Friday.


"By contributing, during one of the darkest hours of our history,
to saving three quarters of the Jews of France from deportation,
these men and women embody the values upon which the nation and
the republic are based," said a statement from the president's
office.


The "righteous" are nominated by the Yad Vashem Holocaust museum
in Israel according to strict criteria. There are 2,725 in
France, the largest number after Poland and the Netherlands, and
16,000 in Europe as a whole.


Among French bearers of the title is the entire village of
Chambon-sur-Lignon in the mountains of the Massif Central, whose
Protestant pastor organised shelter for scores of Jewish
refugees.


Even though more than 72,250 Jews died after being deported from
France, some three-quarters of the 300,000 Jews in France during
the war survived -- a higher proportion than in other countries
occupied by the Germans.


Shortly after taking office in 1995, Chirac was the first
president to recognise the role of the French state in the war-
time deportation of Jews, almost all of them to their deaths in
Nazi extermination camps.


In January this year, Chirac, whose second and final term in
office ends next month, led a ceremony in Paris honouring
France's "righteous among the nations."


The ceremony was held in the Pantheon, the converted church in
the Latin Quarter that serves as a mausoleum for France's
national heroes.

