

Afghanistan President Hamid Karzai said Friday he had held
meetings with the fundamentalist Taliban movement in a bid to
bring reconciliation to his war- shattered country.


The US-backed president said that besides Taliban delegations
meeting a government-initiated reconciliation committee he had
personally met some rebel representatives.


"We've had representatives from the Taliban meeting with the
different bodies of the Afghan government for a long time,"
Karzai told a news conference in Kabul.


"I've had some Taliban coming to speak to me as well, so this
process has been there for a long time."


He would not give details of his meetings.


The Taliban were ousted by a US-led invasion in late 2001 after
they failed to hand over Al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden
following the September 11, 2001 suicide attacks on the World
Trade Center and the Pentagon.


They have since waged an increasingly fierce insurgency against
Karzai's government, Afghan security forces and tens of thousands
of international troops who are deployed in Afghanistan.


Karzai said supreme Taliban leader Mullah Mohammad Omar and what
he called "foreign Taliban" -- an apparent reference to foreign
militants mostly from neighbouring Pakistan -- were not included
in the process.


"The Afghan Taliban are always welcomed. They belong to this
country.... When you go to specifics of it, about Mr Mullah Omar,
that's a different issue," he said.


"The foreign Taliban are not welcomed. They should be kicked out,
should be destroyed, they're destroying our lives, they've been
destroying our country, killing our people," he said.


Karzai initiated a reconciliation committee in early 2005 to
encourage armed militants to lay down arms. The committee claims
to have persuaded more than 3,000 rebels to cross to the
government's side.

