

Rwanda's first post-genocide president, Pasteur Bizimungu, was
freed Friday from prison after a presidential pardon for a
15-year sentence for crimes that included fanning ethnic
hostility.


"This decision was taken as a presidential pardon," government
spokesman and Information Minister Laurent Nkuzi told AFP.


Bizimungu's release comes the day before ceremonies to mark the
13th anniversary of the start of the Rwandan genocide of ethnic
Tutsis by Hutu extremists.


"Bizimungu was not part of the genocide commemoration. The
release now is just a coincidence," Nkuzi said, adding that the
former president had returned to his home in Kigali.


Bizimungu, a figurehead president between 1994 and 2000, was
jailed for 15 years in June 2004 after being found guilty of
incitement to civil disobedience, embezzling state funds and
criminal association.


The Supreme Court last year rejected his appeal alongside that of
former transport minister Charles Ntakirutinka, who was jailed
for 10 years.


Bizimungu and Ntakirutinka argued the charges stemmed from their
attempt to form a new political party in 2002 that was promptly
declared illegal by Rwandan authorities.


The incitement to civil disobedience charge covers the more
specific accusation that Bizimungu, a member of the country's
Hutu majority, was encouraging hostility towards the small Tutsi
minority.


Over the course of 100 days in 1994, around 800,000 people in
Rwanda, most of them Tutsis, were slaughtered in a genocidal
campaign planned and orchestrated by the Hutu government in power
at the time.


In July of that year, a Tutsi rebel group, the Rwandan Patriotic
Front, led by Paul Kagame, now president, seized power in Kigali,
putting an end to the genocide.


Bizimungu was appointed president as a gesture of national
reconciliation, but hounded out of office in 2000.


Since the genocide, any overt reference to ethnicity has been
strongly discouraged in Rwanda.


Critics of the government, however, claim that this policy has
been used to stifle legitimate political opposition.

