

Second division clubs could play in next season's European Cup,
England's RFU said on Friday, following the decision by top
French and English clubs not to take part.


Both the French and the English have claimed that they share the
same reason for the boycott - they have not been granted equal
shareholding with their national federations in the competition.


However RFU president Martyn Thomas told AFP on Friday second-
tier clubs could be entered if the first division sides stick to
the boycott.


Thomas said: "If the Premier League clubs decide not to
participate as they currently said they won't, we do have a
second division. We will talk to these clubs. I spoke to them
last night. I will meet them next week.


"I will do all I can do to insure it continues."


The Premier League in England only controls top flight clubs
unlike in France where the league (LNR) runs the top two
dvisions.


Earlier, Thomas told the BBC: "We remain available 24/7 to meet
Premier Rugby and seek a solution. The Cup can be saved."


And Leicester chairman Peter Tom also suggested all might not be
lost for the competition.


"There would have to be meetings in a very short period of time
in which all of the current issues can be agreed. I don't think
we can continue in the way we have before with lots of different
sets of talks.


"We need to be prepared to lock ourselves in a room for 24 hours
to sort it out."


The RFU have threatened to take legal action if English clubs did
not compete because they would be breaching contractual
obligations.


Later on Friday, France TV sports director Daniel Bilalian told
AFP they would not be breaking their contract to cover European
Cup matches, but would put it on ice for a year.


France TV last year signed a four-year contract with ERC worth an
annual 12 million euros.

