

The former US governor of New Jersey, who resigned in 2004 after
admitting to an adulterous relationship with another man, now
wants to become a priest, the seminary he is entering said
Thursday.


Jim McGreevey, a lapsed Catholic who is currently locked in
divorce proceedings with his wife, plans to enter the General
Theological Seminary of the Episcopal Church in New York City
later this year.


The seminary's director of communications, Bruce Parker, told AFP
that McGreevey would be starting a three-year master of divinity
program in September. "We look forward to welcoming him," he
added.


An unnamed friend of McGreevey's was quoted by the New York Post
as saying the former governor had been considering the move for
some time.


"He's been thinking about this heavily for the past two years.
It's not something that he takes lightly. Despite what some
people think, he's a very spiritual person," the newspaper
reported.


The details of McGreevey's failed marriage have proved frequent
fodder for the US tabloid press. Last year the former governor
wrote that he only married his wife to advance his political
career and has said that she knew he was gay.


But just recently, his wife, Dina Matos McGreevey, countered that
she would never have married him if she knew he was homosexual,
and that she still didn't believe that he was gay but bisexual.


McGreevey, who after coming out while still in office became the
United States' first openly gay governor, has been attending
services at an Episcopal church in Manhattan for the last two
years with his Australian boyfriend, Mark O'Donnell.

