

The White House said Thursday that it shared Afghan President
Hamid Karzai's concerns over Afghan civilian deaths in US-led
operations but blamed the Taliban militia for putting them "in
harm's way."


"The issue of civilian casualties is always one of significant
concern," spokesman Tony Snow told reporters amid protests in
Afghanistan over a weekend strike said to have killed about 50
civilians.


Asked about Karzai's warning that Afghans' patience for such
incidents "is wearing thin," Snow said "we're continuing to
address those concerns and we understand and appreciate them, and
we're working with our allies and with the Afghan government on
it."


"It's one of the hallmarks of US military doctrine that we take
every precaution, not only through doctrine, but also through
technology, to try to spare the lives of innocent civilians," he
said.


"Unfortunately, the Taliban has had the -- has not only been
attacking civilians, but also deliberately placing them in harm's
way," said the spokesman.


Karzai called top military and diplomatic officials to his palace
on Wednesday to warn "the patience of the Afghan people is
wearing thin with the continued killing of innocent civilians."


"Civilian deaths and arbitrary decisions to search people's
houses have reached an unacceptable level and Afghans cannot put
up with it any longer," he said in a statement released after the
meeting.

