

Queen Elizabeth II Thursday expressed Britain's "deepest
sympathies" over the Virginia Tech massacre as she met survivors
of the deadliest school shooting in US history.


"As a state, and as a nation, you are still coming to terms with
the dreadful events at Virginia Tech," she said in an address to
the Virginia state legislature at the start of a six-day visit to
the United States.


"My heart goes out to all those who have been affected," she
said, before heading into a private meeting with some of the
survivors of the campus rampage a fortnight ago which left 32
students and tutors dead.


"On behalf of the people of the United Kingdom, I extend my
deepest sympathies at this time of such grief and sorrow," the
queen told the state General Assembly, the New World's oldest
representative body.


On the steps up to the assembly building, the queen earlier
passed an honor guard that included 11 members of the Virginia
Tech Corps of Cadets in blue and white dress uniform and sabers.


The contingent would normally have numbered 12 but a gap was left
for Matthew La Porte, who was one of the victims of gunman Cho
Seung-Hui's killing spree.


La Porte, 20, was a member of both the university's main cadet
corps and its US Air Force Reserve Officers' Training Corps.


The 11 cadets taking part in the royal ceremony were all present
on the campus on April 16 when Cho ran amok. None was injured,
Corps commandant Major General Jerrold Allen told AFP.


"This is a very important event for the state of Virginia and for
the entire United States," he said.


"We are extremely grateful that we were provided with the
opportunity to take part and to honor one of our fallen
comrades."


A visit by Elizabeth to the Virginia Tech campus at Blacksburg,
220 miles (352 kilometers) west of the state capital Richmond,
has been ruled out.

