

French right-winger Nicolas Sarkozy called on cheering supporters
at his last rally before Sunday's presidential vote to help him
"create the conditions for a French rebirth."


"We have two days left to say goodbye to the heritage of 68,"
Sarkozy said, referring to the May 1968 student revolts that he
has denounced throughout the campaign as the source of France's
moral decline.


"Two days during which I need your ardour, your friendship, your
enthusiasm, your energy, your strength," Sarkozy told 15,000
people including the wife of outgoing President Jacques Chirac,
gathered in the southern city of Montpellier.


"Two days for a new energy to rise out of the country's depths,
two days for a great popular movement to rise up sweep away all
obstacles, all hesitations, all fears, all anguish...," he said
to wild cheers from the crowd.


"Two days to create the conditions for a French rebirth, two days
for everything to become possible."


"Two days for our united family to turn to the silent majority
and tell them, yes it's possible... for we have only one will, to
bring about the tiumph of the French republic and the French
nation.


With two days to go before his decisive second round battle with
socialist rival Segolene Royal, the right-wing favourite appeared
increasingly sure of victory Sunday -- with every opinion poll
since the April 22 first round giving him a clear lead.


A survey carried out after a crucial television debate showed
that his rival failed to make the breakthrough she needed: some
53 percent of viewers thought Sarkozy was more convincing,
compared to 31 percent for Royal.

