

The mother of a Moroccan man on trial for the 2004 Madrid train
bombings on Thursday testified in court that her son was sleeping
at the time of the attack which killed 191 people.


"It hurts me very much, he was sleeping before me and later many
things have been said about him," Aicha Achab, the mother of
Jamal Zougam, told the trial of 29 mostly Moroccan suspects
charged with involvement in the early morning bombing of four
commuter trains.


Achab said Zougam, who is accused of planting rucksacks with
bombs on the trains, woke up at around 10:00 am on March 11, 2004
and ate breakfast with her while watching television until 11:00
am.


Her testimony matched that given by Zougam in February when he
told the court that he watched television coverage of the train
bombings with his mother at their Madrid home on the morning of
the attacks after waking up at 10:00 am.


Zougam was arrested two days after the attacks. He ran a shop
where most of the mobile telephones that were used to set off the
bombs came from.


He has been identified by several witnesses as one of the men who
left bombs on the four targeted trains however no physical
evidence has yet emerged linking him to the sites of the blasts.


Zougam is one of the key suspects in the trial. He is accused of
191 counts of murder, 1,755 counts of attempted murde, membership
in a terrorist organization and four counts of carrying out
terrorist acts.


Achab also told the court that her son did not belong to any
radical Islamic group.


Zougam smiled and blew a kiss at his mother from behind the
bulletproof glass where the suspects are held as she left the
high-security courthouse.


The trial began in mid-February. The verdicts are due in October.

