

NATO Secretary General Jaap de Hoop Scheffer urged Russia on
Thursday not to abandon an important Soviet-era treaty limiting
troops and military hardware in Europe, an alliance official
said.


Closing a meeting with Russia's NATO ambassador in Brussels,
Scheffer "asked that political consultations continue and that
all parties refrain from unilateral and definitive actions," the
official said.


The official said the 26 NATO ambassadors at the talks "firmly
and unanimously rejected signals from Russia that would call into
question a treaty they consider to be very important".


Russian President Vladimir Putin last week declared a freeze on
observance of the Conventional Forces in Europe (CFE) treaty, and
threatened to pull out of it all together.


In Moscow, First Deputy Prime Minister Sergei Ivanov was quoted
by the Interfax news agency as saying: "We declared a moratorium
and we will not inform anyone about movement of troops across our
own territory."


He said the moratorium would last until all NATO countries ratify
a revised version of the treaty, which limits deployments of
tanks and troops in countries belonging to NATO and the former
Warsaw Pact in eastern Europe.


The allies, who called last week for Russia to clarify its
stance, insist it must first withdraw all troops from the former
Soviet republics of Moldova and Georgia.


The NATO official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said that
Russian ambassador Konstantin Totsky "did not provide much more
detail to explain what Putin meant when he referred to a
moratorium".


But he said the ambassador "made it very clear that there was no
link in Russia's mind between the CFE and missile defence", a
reference to US plans, which have angered Moscow, to extend its
missile shield into Europe.

