

The football world paid tribute to England legend Alan Ball on
Thursday, as he was laid to rest following his death last week at
the age of 61.


Ball's coffin was led into Winchester Cathedral in southern
England shrouded with the red-on-white St George's cross England
flag and with his trademark grey flat cap on top.


"My most abiding memory of Alan is in the World Cup final. I
think all the lads agree he was the best player on the pitch by
far," said midfielder Nobby Stiles, who was in the team which
beat West Germany 4-2 after extra time in the final 41 years ago.


"He covered every blade of grass, he was unbelievable."


Ball was found dead at his home last Wednesday. He died of a
heart attack while putting out a small fire which had broken out
in a compost heap in his garden, according to his family.


Others at his funeral included 1966 team-mates Jack Charlton,
George Cohen, Roger Hunt and goalkeeper Gordon Banks, as well as
current England coach Steve McClaren and Manchester United
manager Sir Alex Ferguson.


His death triggered a flood of tributes for Ball, who produced a
man-of-the- match performance to help England to their Wembley
victory against West Germany.


Prime Minister Tony Blair and Prince William, who is president of
the Football Association, said they were saddened by the news,
while 1966 winning goalscorer Sir Geoff Hurst said his teammates
were "totally devastated".


Just hours before his death, Ball had watched Manchester United
beat AC Milan 3-2 on the television and talked with his son
enthusiastically about the game.


Ball won 72 caps for his country in a 10-year career and he made
a total of 743 League appearances for Blackpool, Everton, Arsenal
and Southampton.


He later managed seven clubs including Manchester City,
Southampton and Portsmouth during a career in the dugout which
spanned 19 years.


In later years he was a regular on the guest speaker circuit and
a keen golfer.

