

Estonia has launched a criminal probe to try to identify who has
posted calls on the Internet for the armed overthrow of the
Estonian government, officials said Thursday.


"The security police have opened a criminal inquiry to identify
the persons who are issuing calls on the Internet for violence
targeting the sovereignty and independence of the Republic of
Estonia," Piret Seeman, spokeswoman of the prosecutor's office,
said in a statement.


"The text of the appeal repeatedly refers to the violent seizure
of power and to violent changes to Estonia's constitutional
order," Seeman said.


The appeal calls for the creation of a "Russian Resistance Army"
to fight the Estonian government.


Interior Minister Juri Pihl said Thursday that while he hoped
"the most difficult point has passed" since two nights of rioting
last Thursday and Friday, "we have to be vigilant about possible
breaches of the law on May 9."


"There are many Internet appeals and SMS messages calling for
rallies on that day, but I'm asking everyone not to submit to
provocation," he said.


May 9 is the day Russia, and the large ethnic Russian minority in
Estonia, marks the 1945 defeat over Nazi Germany in World War II.


Estonia marks the allied victory over Hitler on May 8 together
with the rest of western Europe.


Demonstrations have been banned until May 11 in Tallinn and the
surrounding region, following last week's riots over the removal
of a Soviet war memorial.


The removal of the statue has plunged Estonia into a bitter row
with Moscow, which ruled over the Baltic nation for five decades
after World War II, when Estonia was a Soviet republic.


Russians see the statue at the heart of the row as a sacred
memorial to Red Army soldiers who defeated Nazism, while
Estonians view it as a bitter reminder of the long Soviet
occupation.

