

Council of Europe members warned on Thursday of an "alarming
increase" in racially motivated attacks in Russia and called for
measures to protect minorities.


"There has been an alarming increase in the number of racially
motivated violent assaults in the Russian Federation ... yet many
law enforcement officials and prosecuting authorities still often
appear reluctant to acknowledge racial or nationalist motivation
in these crimes," the council's committee of ministers said in a
resolution.


The resolution added that "hate speech has become more common in
the media and in political discourse."


The situation of those from the northern Caucasus was troubling,
the resolution stated, saying investigations of human rights
violations in that area should be carried out more vigorously.


The resolution says Russia has not adopted "comprehensive anti-
discrimination legislation" offering remedies for victims.


There have been positive steps in some areas, the resolution
said, including high-ranking Russian officials speaking out
against racism and the creation of anti-discrimination
programmes.


"This has been accompanied by an increase in the number of
convictions under the relevant criminal law provisions
sanctioning violent actions aimed at inciting national, racial or
religious hatred," it said.


The Council of Europe includes 46 member states. The committee of
ministers, the council's decision-making body, comprises the
foreign ministers or their representatives of all member
countries.

