

One of Spain's most popular singers was questioned Thursday by an
investigating judge as part of an ongoing building corruption
probe that has led to nearly 100 detentions since last year.


Isabel Pantoja, who has released over 25 flamenco-themed albums
since the 1970s, was detained at her home in the Mediterranean
resort town of Marbella late on Wednesday.


She then spent the night in jail and was questioned for three
hours on Thursday. She was later released after agreeing to pay
90,000 euros (122,000 US dollars) in bail.


The 50-year-old singer is suspected of having laundered money
that was obtained illegally by her boyfriend, former Marbella
mayor Julian Munoz, prosecutor general Candido Conde Pumpido told
a news conference.


Police detained Munoz in July 2006 as part of their probe into
the alleged payments of bribes in return for building permits
dubbed "Operation Malaya". He is accused of bribery and
embezzlement.


Spanish authorities have seized more than two billion euros in
cash and property, including over 200 works of art, 100 pure-bred
horses, a helicopter and several luxury cars, as part of the
investigation.


Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, who faces local
elections on May 27 and a general election next year, said
Wednesday in Marbella that the government would take a hardline
approach to corruption.


"Neither this country nor its people nor their government is
going to tolerate any corruption," he told a local election
rally.


Pantoja's private life frequently finds its way into Spain's
gossip magazines and her detention dominated headlines on
Thursday.


The singer -- who has sold over four million albums worldwide --
was married to famous Spanish bullfighter Francisco "Paquirri"
Rivera who was gored to death by a bull in the ring in 1984.


She also faces allegations in Peru that she paid bribes to speed
up the adoption in 2002 of her daughter Chavelita.

