

German truck maker MAN on Thursday reiterated its interest in a
three-way tie-up with Volkswagen and Swedish rival Scania and
raised its 2007 forecasts after a better-than-expected first
quarter.


MAN boss Hakan Samuelsson said he hoped it would be clear by the
end of the year whether a deal to create Europe's biggest truck
maker could go ahead.


"We are open to discussions and after our annual general meeting
the right conditions will be in place" for discussions, he said
in a teleconference.


Next week's AGM is expected to see Volkswagen supervisory board
chief Ferdinand Piech elected to the MAN supervisory board. Piech
is expected to ratchet up the pressure for a heavy goods vehicle
tie-up between the three companies.


VW recently became the biggest shareholder in MAN, amassing a
stake of 29.9 percent. It also holds a 34-percent voting stake in
Scania.


Discussions between the three companies ground to a halt after
MAN withdrew a hostile 10.3-billion-euro (14.0-billion-dollar)
bid for Scania in January.


Munich-based MAN said it was expecting a 10-percent increase in
2007 turnover after a strong first quarter, revising its previous
forecast of five percent.


Net profit rose 48 percent to 228 million euros and operating
profit was up 51 percent to 318 million euros on sales of 3.3
billion euros, which were 15 percent higher.


"We have started the year very well. All our divisions have
improved their performance," Samuelsson said.


MAN noted strong demand for trucks, its core business, with
turnover in that sector rising 18 percent to 2.2 billion euros.


Robert Heberger, an analyst at Merck Finck, said the results were
"very solid" and far exceeded expectations.

