

French socialist Segolene Royal told a crowd of fired-up
supporters at her last major presidential rally on Thursday that
she was confident of victory against right-winger Nicolas
Sarkozy.


"This Sunday, this victory that we want so much for France, is
now within reach," Royal told a cheering audience of 20,000 at a
concert hall in the northern city of Lille, calling for a mass
turnout in the weekend vote.


Speaking of a "wave that keeps on rising and which must continue
to rise", Royal -- who failed to deliver a knock-out blow to her
rival in a televised debate -- asked her backers "to stay
mobilised these two more days."


"I feel your friendship, your closeness, your energy, I feel that
we all love each other very much," the 53-year-old said, to wild
cheers of "Segolene, president!".


Earlier, French rocker Renaud -- who once wrote a violent attack
on former British prime minister Margaret Thatcher -- praised the
"fraternity, humanism, and humanity" of Royal's project for
France.


Polls suggest that Sarkozy cemented his frontrunner position in
the presidential election following the hotly-awaited debate on
Wednesday.


Royal, who wants to become France's first woman president, won
kudos for her combativeness during the debate that lasted two and
a half hours but Sarkozy appeared to score more points for
keeping his cool.


A poll by the Opinion Way firm showed 53 percent found Sarkozy
more convincing against 31 percent who thought the Socialist
candidate better, but Royal's camp challenged the reliability of
the survey.


An Ipsos/Dell poll carried out before the debate and published
Thursday showed Sarkozy would beat Royal in round two by 53.5
percent to 46.5 percent.

