

The dollar clawed back ground against the euro on Thursday after
recently sinking to an all-time low as positive data for the US
economy helped boost the currency.


Elsewhere, the euro hit a new record high against the yen in
early trading before falling back later in the day.


In late European trading, the euro was trading at 1.3565 dollars,
from 1.3590 dollars in late trade on Wednesday.


The European single currency hit a record peak of 163.60 yen, but
later fell back to 163.25 yen compared with 163.19 yen late in
New York on Wednesday.


The dollar stood at 120.33 yen, compared with 120.08 yen.


The dollar enjoyed its rally after surprisingly robust US
economic news further reinforced expectations that the US Federal
Reserve will refrain from cutting borrowing costs next week.


The Institute for Supply Management reported that the US's
service sector expanded at a faster-than-expected rate in April.


The ISM non-manufacturing business index rose to 56.0 from 52.4
in March, higher than the 54.0 economists had expected.


A reading above 50 indicates growth in the sector, while a
reading below 50 indicates contraction.


"Given the apparent economic rebound at service sector firms and
slower, but still elevated, inflationary prospects, the Fed is
likely comfortable with keeping rates at current levels for the
foreseeable future.


The new euro/yen pinnacle came despite Japanese markets being
closed on Thursday and Friday for a public holiday, dealers said.


The European single currency has been strengthening against its
rivals on optimism about growth prospects for the 13-nation
eurozone, amid weak data in the United States and Japan.


That means dealers expect the European Central Bank to hike rates
in the coming months from the current level of 3.75 percent, in
contrast with the increased likelihood of borrowing costs not
rising elsewhere.


That makes eurozone assets even more attractive, enticing
investors to switch from other currencies -- such as the yen and
dollar -- into the euro.


All eyes are now on Friday's US non-farm payrolls report, seen as
one of the best indicators for further clues on the health of the
United States economy.


The market was expecting the report to show 100,000 new jobs
created, but a weaker figure might lead to a fresh sell-off in
the dollar, dealers said.


"Amid market concern over a weak employment report on Friday, the
dollar should continue to consolidate in a tight range, with any
gains ... limited to the 1.3520 area in euro/dollar," Commerzbank
analyst Gavin Friend said.


The euro has fallen against the greenback since striking an all-
time high of 1.3682 dollars last Friday.


Friend added: "In the coming days and weeks, the dollar will
resume its gradual decline towards 1.38 dollars."


The euro changed hands at 1.3565 dollars, against 1.3590 dollars
late Wednesday, 163.25 yen (163.19), 0.6825 pounds (0.6830) and
1.6477 Swiss francs (1.6496).


The dollar stood at 120.33 yen (120.08) and 1.2144 Swiss francs
(1.2137).


The pound was being traded at 1.9877 dollars (1.9893).


On the London Bullion Market, the price of gold rose to 674.20
dollars per ounce, from 669.50 dollars late on Wednesday.

