

The US military has opened an investigation into allegations that
scores of civilians were killed in fighting between US and
Taliban forces in Afghanistan, a senior US military officer said
Thursday.


UN and Afghan officials have said about 50 civilians were killed
in fighting Friday and Sunday in the western province of Herat in
which US special operations forces called in air strikes and an
AC-130 gunship attack on Taliban positions.


President Hamid Karzai on Wednesday said civilian deaths had
reached "an unacceptable level" and Afghan patience was wearing
thin.


The US military has not acknowledged that any civilians were
killed in the fighting in a remote valley in Herat's Shindand
district.


On Wednesday, a Pentagon spokesman said there would be no formal
investigation unless civilian deaths were reported up the
military chain.


But General Daniel McNeil, the top US commander in Afghanistan
and the head of a NATO-led force there, has said that an
investigation into the allegations is now underway, said
Brigadier General Perry Wiggins, a deputy operations direct with
the Joint Staff.


Wiggins, however, was unable to say who is leading the
investigation or when it was begun.


"Commanders as a matter of course normally conduct an
investigation when it concerns civilian casualties. In this case,
the commander is conducting an investigation," he said.


"As a matter of course we try not to discuss those particular
investigations until the facts are given by the commanders," he
said.


Despite reports by Afghan and UN officials that women and
children were among the dead, Wiggins said he could not confirm
any civilian deaths until an investigation had been completed.


"Like I said, investigations take time in order to track down the
facts. Time is not a factor when you're talking about allegations
of this nature," he said.

