

A French space probe designed to look for worlds orbiting other
stars has made its first find, a "hot Jupiter" that zips closely
around a sun some 1,500 light years away, the National Centre for
Space Studies (CNES) said on Thursday.


The planet-hunter, named Corot (pronounced "Coreau"), was
launched last December 27.


The find, named Corot-Exo-1b, is between 200,000 and 250,000
kilometers (125,000 and 155,000 miles) in diameter and has a mass
about 1.3 times that of Jupiter, the largest planet of our Solar
System, CNES said in a news release.


Its size and its proximity to the star, which it orbits in just
one and a half days, puts it into category of a "hot Jupiter," it
said.


Such planets are unlikely to harbour any life as we know it, as
they are not rocky worlds with mild temperatures, but scorched
giants made of gas.


Corot, a 170-million-euro (231-million-dollar) project that is
also funded by the European Space Agency (ESA), Austria, Belgian,
Brazil and Germany, carries a 30-centimetre (12-inch) telescope
and two cameras.


As of Thursday, 232 so-called exoplanets have been spotted,
according to the Extrasolar Planets Encyclopaedia
(http://exoplanet.eu/).


Extrasolar worlds were first spotted in 1995. Virtually all of
the discoveries have been made indirectly, mainly by a "wobble"
in light, seen from Earth, when the planet swings around its
star. The change in light signature can yield many clues about
the planet's size and orbit.

