

Romania's constitutional court on Thursday approved a measure
making it easier for the president to be impeached, two weeks
ahead of a referendum on President Traian Basescu's impeachment.


The amendment to the procedure, proposed by opposition members,
says the president can be impeached by a majority of those who
cast ballots, rather than a majority of all registered voters.


Politicians close to Basescu and some lawyers criticised the
court's decision, arguing that it should not apply to the May 19
referendum.


"We cannot change the rules during the game," said University of
Bucharest law professor Ioan Stanomir.


For the referendum to be valid however, 50 percent plus one of
the country's 17.9 million registered voters still have to
participate. Some observers doubt that the turnout will be
sufficient, especially considering that some two million
Romanians work abroad.


Basescu, 55, who remains a popular political figure in the
country, has said he would quit politics if he lost the vote.


Parliament voted to suspend Basescu last month for allegedly
violating the constitution. Accusations included "controlling
through those close to him all state institutions, of interfering
in the law and protecting the interests of the mafia in the
Romanian economy."


Nicholas Taubman, the US ambassador in Romania, called Thursday
for a "level playing field" for the referendum.


"I am worried about some of the things I have been hearing in the
last few weeks about political games and tactics that don't sound
to me like fair play," said Taubman.


"Being a member of NATO, and of the EU for that matter, means a
lot of other things, including a commitment to meeting high
standards of democratic governance. Not just in theory, but also
in practice," he added.

