

American Cristie Kerr, who won three times last year, hopes to
repeat the success she had a year ago at Cedar Ridge Country
Club.


Kerr won the SemGroup Championship last season in record-breaking
fashion and will start defence of that title when the 1.4 million
dollar LPGA event begins on Friday.


Shooting a career-best 10-under-par 61 in the second round, Kerr
broke a course record a year ago with a 14-under 199.


Her second-round effort on the 6,602-yard, par-71 course was the
best round of 2006 on the LPGA Tour.


"It's certainly better than coming and not having been the
defending champion," said Kerr. "It's a goal of mine to defend a
title. I haven't done it yet and I relish the opportunity to do
that."


Kerr had the best season of her career a year ago, finishing
fifth on the money list with more than 1.5 million dollars. But
she struggled a bit this season with just one top-10 finish in
six tournaments.


"I put a lot of pressure on myself at the beginning of the year,"
Kerr said.


"I had to kind of re-evaluate what I've been doing well and what
I haven't been doing well and get a little bit more focus on my
performance goals. How many greens do I want to hit? How many
fairways? How many putts? How many putts per round?


"I started getting all that little stuff in, which as you know,
when people start to win they do the little things really well.
I've tried to simplify my game and start to focus on the some of
those things again."


One golfer Kerr will not have to concern herself with is Annika
Sorenstam, who remains sidelined with a ruptured disk in her
back.


The Swedish superstar led last year's event by two strokes with
eight holes to play before Kerr birdied the 11th, 12th, 15th and
17th to earn the title.


Lorena Ochoa of Mexico, the top money winner in 2006 and current
money leader this season, is in the field. She was third in last
year's event, four strokes back.

