

Virginia Tech officer cadets were Thursday to stage an honor
guard for Britain's Queen Elizabeth II with a gap left for a
comrade killed in the deadliest school shooting in US history,
their commander said.


After beginning a state visit in Virginia's capital Richmond, the
queen was also due to hold a private meeting with survivors of
the shooting rampage a fortnight ago which left 32 students and
tutors dead.


The guard was to comprise 11 members of the Virginia Tech Corps
of Cadets in blue and white dress uniform and sabers, and 12
trainee officers from the Virginia Military Institute, Corps
commandant Major General Jerrold Allen said.


"There will be an empty space in honor of Matthew La Porte," he
told AFP, referring to one of the victims of gunman Cho Seung-
Hui's killing spree.


La Porte, 20, was a member of both the university's main cadet
corps and its US Air Force Reserve Officers' Training Corps.


The 11 cadets taking part in the royal ceremony were all present
on the campus on April 16 when Cho ran amok. None was injured,
Allen said.


"This is a very important event for the state of Virginia and for
the entire United States," the commandant said.


"We are extremely grateful that we were provided with the
opportunity to take part and to honor one of our fallen
comrades."


After the honor guard's presentation, the British monarch was
expected to meet survivors and relatives in the Richmond Capitol
building, shortly after beginning her first state visit to the
United States in 16 years.


A visit by Elizabeth to the Virginia Tech campus at Blacksburg,
220 miles (352 kilometers) west of Richmond, has been ruled out.

