

Europe's main stock exchanges closed higher on Thursday, with the
leading French index closing above 6,000 points for the first
time since December 2000.


The London FTSE 100 index gained 0.82 percent to close at
6,537.80 points, in Paris the CAC 40 rose 0.24 percent to finish
at 6,004.28 points while in Frankfurt the Dax gained 0.31 percent
to 7,479.40 points.


The euro stood at 1.3573 dollars.


Wall Street shares were mixed Thursday morning after auto giant
General Motors announced worse-than-expected profits, largely due
to heavy mortgage lending losses.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average was down a slight 0.02 percent
at 13,209.76, after opening higher and closing at a record
13,211.88 points a day earlier.


Wednesday's close marked the blue-chip index's 17th record close
this year and 21st gain in 24 days.


The tech-heavy Nasdaq composite Thursday gained 0.17 percent to
2,562.23, and the broad-market Standard & Poor's 500 index
was up 0.19 percent to 1,498.80.


The S&P had closed at its highest level since September 2000
on Wednesday.


In London, shares in insurance group Prudential gained 5.59
percent to 794 pence on a report in The Daily Telegraph newspaper
that an investment fund was seeking to break up the 19-billion-
pound (28 billion euro, 37 billion dollar) group.


Shares in British building materials group Hanson soared by more
than 20 percent after HeidelbergCement, Germany's leading cement
maker, said it was considering a takeover offer.


Hanson closed up 20.38 percent at 1,025 pence.


Anglo-Dutch food giant Unilever gained 3.86 percent to 1,616
pence after posting first-quarter numbers that were ahead of
market expectations.


In Asia, Hong Kong's key Hang Seng Index closed 1.44-percent
higher at 20,681.58 points, extending gains on hopes an upcoming
government land auction will attract strong interest from leading
developers and push property prices higher, dealers said.


Tokyo was shut until Monday owing to a four-day holiday weekend
across Japan.


Elsewhere in Europe, in Madrid the Ibex 35 gained 0.15 percent to
14,395.6 points, in Milan the SP/Mib climbed 0.34 percent to
43,685 points, in Brussels the Bel 20 gained 0.66 percent hit a
new record 4,706.52 points.


The Swiss SMI index fell 0.55 percent to 9,393.05 points.

