

Germany's Defence Minister Franz Josef Jung appealed on Thursday
for ethnic Albanians in Kosovo to be "patient" ahead of a UN
Security Council on the future status of the restive province.


"I appeal to the people to be patient and wait for the decision
for Kosovo. Let's see what will be the decision by the UN
Security Council," Jung told reporters in the southern town of
Prizren.


"We are focused on finding a solution in the UN Security Council
and we consider it as the best way (of solving Kosovo's status).
Unilateral declaration (of independence) will be a wrong
solution," he said.


Jung's remarks come amid wrangling in the security council where
Russia has warned it could veto any resolution granting
independence to the ethnic Albanian majority province in southern
Serbia.


Serbia has lobbied hard for Kosovo to remain within its borders
and Russia, a sometime ally, has backed its position.


There are fears that if Russia wields its veto in the council to
block the creation of an independent Kosovo as recommended by the
UN special envoy Martii Ahtisaair, Kosovo's leaders will
unilaterally declare independence.


On Thursday, Kosovo President Fatmir Sejdiu said the province
would be independent "soon," hinting that would be done with or
without Russia's approval.


"There is no doubt about Kosovo's independence and its
international recognition of it," Sejdiu said at a meeting with
local residents in Istok, a town in the west of the province.


Jung also visited German troops deployed within NATO-led
peacekeepers (KFOR) in Kosovo, deployed in after a NATO bombing
campaign in 1999 ended a crackdown by Belgrade forces on
independence-seeking ethnic Albanians.


Some 2,300 German peacekeepers have been deployed in Kosovo,
notably in the area around southern town Prizren. Germany
temporarily deployed an additional 600 soldiers in April.

