

The shopping, cooking, cleaning, diaper-changing and endless
errands performed by the average US housewife would be rewarded
outside the home with an annual salary of 138,095 dollars, a
survey on the eve of the annual "Mother's Day" holiday found.


The website Salary.com said its annual assessment of the
commercial value of mother's labor is up some 4,000 dollars this
year -- a three percent raise over her 2006 salary of 134,121.


That sizeable paycheck is explained in part because the average
stay-at-home mom puts in a 92-hour workweek -- far above the 40
hours logged by many US workers outside the home.


More than half of moms' time on the job would have to be
compensated as overtime, the survey found, further boosting their
pay.


Salary.com found that mothers who work outside the home required
as much stamina at their at-home counterparts, logging a 49-hour
"mom work week" above and beyond their full-time for-pay jobs.


"Mom works multiple jobs and rarely gets a break from the action,
working an average of 52 hours of overtime," said Bill Coleman, a
senior vice president for the website.


The job description of the typical mom comprises various
functions, including housekeeper, daycare provider, janitor,
teacher, cook, and other tasks.


For the survey, Salary.com polled 40,000 women who tallied their
hours per job description. Researchers then benchmarked the
median salaries for each occupation to arrive at the 138,000
dollar figure.


The survey appears just ahead of this year's May 13 "Mother's
Day," holiday, observed in the United States on the second Sunday
in May.


Rather than a hefty paycheck however, most US mothers were
expected to receive greeting cards and boxed chocolates.

