

A packed field of 10 Republican presidential hopefuls gathers at
the symbolic venue of the Ronald Reagan library on Thursday, for
the party's first debate of the 2008 White House race.


Nine months before the first votes are cast for the party's
nomination, the candidates will likely face a grilling on Iraq,
and other issues important to Republicans like abortion, taxation
and morality.


Analysts say the debate, at the library outside Los Angeles, will
allow lesser- known contenders a chance to challenge early front-
runners, former New York mayor Rudolph Giuliani and closest rival
Senator John McCain.


Both men score well in head-to-heads against Democratic
heavyweights Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton.


That despite national polls that have 50 percent of voters
aligning with the Democrats while 35 percent side with
Republicans.


Giuliani, running a campaign rooted in his leadership during the
September 11 attacks in 2001, will be in the crosshairs as he
tries to shield his clear early lead in opinion polls.


In an interview with the Politico newspaper published Thursday,
Giuliani said he was looking forward to the challenge, but did
not believe the debate would transform the race.


"Over a period of time, I think the debates might change things,
but I don't think any one will," Giuliani said.


An average of recent polls puts Giuliani at around 33 percent of
likely Republican voters, well clear of McCain.


McCain, once viewed as the clear favorite of the Republican
establishment, must use Thursday's debate to shore up his bid
after a slow start and a lackluster showing in the multi-million
dollar fundraising stakes.


Former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney will relish the
exposure before a national US television audience, while lesser
candidates will hope to break out from the pack.


But analysts agreed with Giuliani that a decisive development was
unlikely so early in the race given the size of the field,
stuffed with little known longshot candidates, and the absence of
some likely key contenders.


"There may be a jab here or there, but I see it more as a first
round, they're not necessarily going to go for the knock-out
blow," said David Corbin, of the University of New Hampshire.


Several potential strong Republican candidates, such as
television star and former senator Fred Thompson and former
speaker of the House of Representatives Newt Gingrich, are
mulling campaigns but will not be at the debate.


There is also a feeling that conservatives, who revered Reagan
and helped President George W. Bush win the presidency, are
unhappy with their 2008 field.


Despite the early stage of the race, polls show potential voters
are keeping a keen eye on the shape of both Democratic and
Republican fields, so there is no room for gaffes that could be
exploited down the road.


Early shots of Thursday's encounter will likely be dominated by
Iraq.


Republican candidates face a difficult choice. A recent poll by
the Pew Center for People and the Press showed that nearly two-
thirds of Americans want their congressional representatives to
vote to bring US troops home.


But two-thirds of Republicans, according to the same survey,
wanted their representative to vote against -- meaning that it
would be a brave candidate who would distance himself from the
president at this stage.


The debate also includes long-shot candidates: former Virginia
Governor Jim Gilmore, Kansas Senator Sam Brownback, former Bush
administration cabinet member Tommy Thompson, and conservative
Colorado congressman Tom Tancredo.


Congressman Duncan Hunter, former Arkansas governor Mike Huckabee
and Texas congressman Ron Paul will also take part.


While Bush's popularity is at record lows, analysts did not
expect Republican candidates to lash out at the president; voters
in Republican primaries are believed to be still largely loyal to
him.

