

Paris Hilton could face up to 45 days in prison when she appears
before a Los Angeles court on Friday to answer charges of
violating her parole over drink- driving charges, it was
reported.


According to legal documents published by celebrity news website
TMZ.com, Los Angeles prosecutors will seek a custodial sentence
for the blonde celebrity starlet, heiress to part of the Hilton
hotel empire.


The documents alleged Hilton was caught driving with a suspended
licence twice, dismissing her lawyers' arguments that she was
unaware that she forbidden to do so, describing her actions as a
"flagrant" violation.


It is alleged Hilton also failed to enroll in an alcohol
education program within 21 days of the order directing her to do
so.


The papers demand that: "Hilton be ordered to serve 45 days in
County Jail." Prosecutors also want her to be ordered "not to
consume any alcohol for a continuous period of 90 days."


Hilton was pulled over in Los Angeles on February 27 while
driving her Bentley Continental GTC with the headlights off.


When police learned Hilton was driving on a suspended license,
they confiscated the luxury car, worth 190,000 dollars.


It came just one month after she was convicted for alcohol-
related reckless driving and given 36 months probation.


The charges stemmed from her September 7 arrest after she was
found driving her Mercedes with an alcohol level equal to the
legal limit.


The Los Angeles City Attorney's Office said it would request that
Hilton's probation be revoked once it checks the police citation
for the latest incident.


A favorite target for tabloid gossip and the paparazzi, Hilton
appeared in the reality television series "The Simple Life," and
in 2003 an unauthorized sex video with her former boyfriend
appeared on the Internet.


She ventured into music last year with a debut album and has had
cameo roles in a handful of films, inclusing 2005 horror film
"House of Wax."

