

Wall Street share prices surged to fresh highs Thursday as the
stock market rally was stoked by generally upbeat economic news
and a bout of merger and takeover deals in recent days.


The afternoon's share action saw the Dow Jones Industrial Average
stock index close at a record high while the broad-market
Standard & Poor's 500 index was propelled to its highest
level in almost seven years.


The Dow blue chip index closed up 29.50 points (0.22 percent) at
13,241.38, sealing its 18th record close this year and 22nd gain
in 25 trading days.


The tech-rich Nasdaq composite finished up 7.62 points (0.30
percent) at 2,565.46 while the broad-market Standard & Poor's
500 index ended 6.47 points (0.43 percent) higher at 1,502.39.


The S&P closed above the psychologically-important 1,500
point mark for the first time since September 2000.


Gregory Drahuschak, an analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott, said
the Dow was enjoying one of its best winning streaks in around 50
years amid a flurry of upbeat profit reports and private-equity
fueled takeovers.


Analyst said the day's economic news had helped push stocks
higher.


"Economic reports were market friendly. First quarter non-farm
productivity was higher-than-expected, initial jobless claims
declined more-than-expected last week and a report on the US
service economy in April was stronger than forecast," said Al
Goldman, chief market strategist at AG Edwards.


Helping the market, the Labor Department reported that jobless
claims fell by 21,000 to a seasonally-adjusted 305,000 claims for
the week ending April 28. Claims are at their lowest level since
mid January. Other reports showed labor productivity up 1.7
percent and the US service sector growing at a brisk pace.


Investors were likely to remain focused on the job market Friday
as the government was due to release a monthly snapshot on April
nonfarm payrolls.


Most analysts expect monthly hiring to have slowed to around
100,000 nonfarm payroll positions.


On the stock front, Delta Air Lines was in focus as its new
shares traded for the first time since the third-largest US
carrier emerged from bankruptcy this week.


Delta's shares, trading under the symbol DAL, closed up 32 cents
(1.6 percent) at 20.72 dollars.


The revived airline is making an initial distribution of its new
common stock to some unsecured creditors and to about 39,000
employees.


GM meanwhile reported weaker-than-expected first-quarter net
profit of 62 million dollars, compared with 602 million in the
same period a year earlier.


GM's latest results excluding special items were 17 cents per
share, much lower than Wall Street forecasts which had
anticipated 84 cents per share.


The car maker largely tied its slower profits to a loss at its
GMAC financial arm of 305 million dollars compared with a profit
of 495 million a year earlier, mainly due to troubled home loans.


GM's shares finished down a hefty 1.76 dollars (5.4 percent) at
30.69 dollars. Rival Ford closed up two cents at 8.19 dollars
while US-listed shares of DaimlerChrysler were down 1.19 dollars
at 80.65 dollars.


Bank of America closed up 22 cents at 51.23 dollars as its 21
-billion-dollar bid to buy rival LaSalle bank from ABN Amro was
thrown into doubt.


A Dutch court ruled Thursady that ABN Amro could not sell LaSalle
to Bank of America without shareholder approval as a consortium
of European banks vied to takeover ABN Amro and scuttle its bid
to sell LaSalle.


Bond prices weakened. The yield on the 10-year US Treasury bond
increased to 4.674 percent from 4.646 percent Wednesday and that
on the 30-year bond edged up to 4.837 percent against 4.819
percent. Bond yields and prices move in opposite directions.

