

On-form Frenchman Richard Gasquet demolished the upset dream of
Portuguese outsider Frederico Gil with a 6-1, 6-2 defeat of the
local in the second round of the Estoril Open on Thursday.


Fifth seed Gasquet, a quarter-finalist last month at Monte Carlo,
was merciless as the dismantled the 22-year-old from nearby
Sintra, ranked 142 in the world.


The bulk of Gil's experience at the ATP level has come at the
event where he reigns as a fan favourite at the Estadio Nacional.


He reached the quarter-finals a year ago before losing to
eventual titleholder David Nalbandian.


Gasquet reached his fifth quarter-final of the season as he won
his 20th match against eight defeats.


The number 15 next faces colourful American part-time rapper
Vince Spadea after the 32-year-old ranked 76th dismissed French
qualifier Olivier Patience 2-6, 6-3, 6-4.


The Floridian's clay-court highlight in Europe was the Monte
Carlo semi-finals in 2003 when he went down to Juan Carlos
Ferrero.


The American is one of the few from his hardcourt nation who
habitually ventures across the Atlantic in April to try his luck
on the foreign surface.


He is competing for his second week this spring after winning a
round in Barcelona.


Three more women's seeds were bundled out on the first bright day
of a wet week.


Viktoria Azarenka of Belarus upset number two Francesca Schiavone
of Italy 6-2, 6-2 while Swede Sofia Arvidsson reached her first
quarter-final since last summer in Stockholm with a defeat of
fifth seed Olga Poutchkova 6-0, 1-0 when the Russian retired.


Argentine Gisela Dulko rode the momentum from last week's first
career title in Budapest, reaching the last eight as she defeated
Italian eighth seed Flavia Pennetta 6-3, 3-6, 6-1.

