

Embattled World Bank President Paul Wolfowitz has strongly
rebutted criticisms that he oversaw an improper pay and promotion
deal for his partner, according to a letter released Thursday.


Wolfowitz also said that he acted within World Bank rules in
requesting pay hikes and promotions for Shaha Riza, his partner
who also worked at the international development lender.


"It is grossly unfair and wrong to suggest that I intended to
mislead anyone, and I urge the committee to reject the allegation
that I lack credibility," Wolfowitz said in a letter to a World
Bank investigatory panel.


The letter, released to the media Thursday, was dated Wednesday.


"I vehemently deny that I went beyond what I understood to be the
guidance I received" from bank officials, Wolfowitz said.


The World Bank chief was responding to claims by bank officials
that he was never directed to personally order guaranteed
promotions and a lucrative pay deal worth nearly 200,000 dollars
for his Libyan-born companion.


The spat between the World Bank president and key high-level
staffers has pitched the institution into crisis and sparked an
internal inquiry into Wolfowitz's actions.


The investigatory panel is due to report its findings to the
bank's board soon although it is unclear what course of action
the board may take despite mounting calls for Wolfowitz's
resignation.


The simmering standoff is threatening to hobble the World Bank's
development activities.


The New York Times reported Thursday that some bank donors have
indicated they would refuse to approve new donations to loans for
some of the world's poorest states as long as Wolfowitz remains
at the helm.

