

Dozens of journalists and diplomats rallied outside UN
headquarters Thursday to demand the immediate release of BBC
journalist Alan Johnston, who was abducted in the Gaza Strip last
March.


The rally, organized by Johnston's BBC colleagues on World Press
Freedom Day, was attended by UN Deputy Secretary General Asha-
Rose Migiro who added her voice to calls for the 44-year-old
Briton's release. Also present was Britain's UN Ambassador Emyr
Jones Parry.


"There is no benefit to holding Alan ... We pray and hope that
those who are holding him will do the honorable and the right
thing: return him to us quickly and safely," said ABC News's
Nightline anchor Martin Bashir.


In a message released to mark World Press Freedom Day, UN chief
Ban Ki-moon, currently attending a conference on Iraq's economic
reconstruction in the Egyptian resort of Sharm el-Sheikh, also
appealed for Johnston's "immediate release."


"No cause is served, and any cause is undermined by his continued
captivity," Ban said in his statement. "Attacks on freedom of
press are attacks against international law, against humanity,
against freedom itself -- against everything the United Nations
stands for."


His plea was echoed by Haya Rashed Al Khalifa of Bahrain, the
current president of the 192-member UN General Assembly, who
noted that "not just Alan Johnston, every reporter unlawfully
imprisoned must be set free."


There is still no clear indication of Johnston's fate since he
was snatched at gunpoint while driving home from work in Gaza
City on March 12.


A little-known Islamist group claimed last month to have killed
him but other reports indicate he is alive.


Palestinian authorities said Wednesday they know his whereabouts
but are not carrying out a rescue operation because they do not
want to put his safety at risk.

