

Two unbeaten Filipino fighters, two undefeated Englishmen and an
Australian with an unblemished record are among undercard
fighters for Saturday's Floyd Mayweather-Oscar de la Hoya
slugfest.


Reynaldo "Boom Boom" Bautista of Philippines will face
Argentina's Sergio Manuel Medina in a 12-round matchup of
unbeaten super bantamweights. Medina is 28-0 with 16 knockouts.
The 20-year-old Asian is 22-0 with 17 knockouts.


Alex Banal, an 18-year-old Filipino southpaw who is 12-0 with a
draw and 10 knockouts, fights outside his homeland for the first
time against Mexico's Juan Rosas, 25-2 with 22 knockouts, in a
10-round junior bantamweight bout.


Aussie Billy Dib, a 21-year-old Sydney southpaw who is 15-0 with
nine knockouts, faces Mexican Jose Gonzalez, 14-3 with six
knockouts, in a 10-round junior lightweight bout.


England's John Murray, a 22-year-old lightweight from Manchester
with a 20-0 record and half his wins inside the distance, will
meet American Lorenzo Bethea, 6-4 with one knockout, in an eight-
round bout.


English southpaw John O'Donnell, a 15-0 welterweight from
Croydon, carries a 15-0 mark with five knockouts into an eight-
round bout against Mexican Christian Solano, 11-12 with one draw
and seven knockouts.


Also on the undercard of the much-anticipated Mayweather-De la
Hoya showdown is a matchup of American featherweights Rocky
Juarez, 26-3 with 19 knockouts, and Jose Hernandez, 22-3 with 14
knockouts.

