

The heir of a Jewish art dealer whose entire collection was
looted by Nazi troops during World War II is suing a US museum
that acquired two of the stolen paintings more than 35 years ago.


Marei von Saher, the daughter-in-law of noted art dealer Jacques
Goudstikker, filed a lawsuit on Tuesday against the Norton Simon
Museum in Pasadena, California, her lawyers said in a statement
issued Wednesday.


Von Saher and the museum had been in talks over the paintings for
some years but the two parties failed to reach a settlement, the
lawyers said.


At stake are two life-size paintings of Adam and Eve by 15th
century artist Lucas Cranach the Elder, which Von Saher's lawyers
said were among the most important works in Goudstikker's
collection of more than 1,300 artworks.


The paintings, most of them Old Masters today worth hundreds of
thousands of dollars apiece, were looted in 1940 when Nazi troops
invaded the Netherlands. While some of the collection has been
returned, many paintings remain missing.


Luftwaffe commander Hermann Goering was among the officers who
looted Goudstikker's gallery, taking some works back to Germany.


The two paintings in the current dispute were acquired by the
Norton Simon Museum in or about 1971, according to Von Saher's
lawyers, who have challenged the museum's contention that it has
fair title to the paintings.


Last year the Dutch government returned around 200 paintings that
had been looted from the Goudstikker collection to Von Saher.
Around 30 of them were sold at auction in New York last month,
fetching almost 10 million dollars.


Goudstikker was forced to abandon his collection when he fled the
Netherlands in 1940. However, a notebook in which he recorded
details of over 1,000 of his works has proved invaluable in the
search for the lost paintings.

