

British Prime Minister Tony Blair received approval on Thursday
for proposed renovations to his multi-million pound (euro/dollar)
house in an up-market area of west London.


Though Blair currently lives in his government residence at 10
Downing Street, he is widely expected to announce his resignation
next week. Anywhere he moves into will have to meet the approval
of the police protection he will have by his side for the rest of
his life.


Neighbours had raised objections to plans submitted by the Blairs
for a roof terrace, solar panels and an extensive closed-circuit
television network, but Westminster Council's Planning Committee
unanimously decided to approve the plans anyway.


Blair bought a 3.65 million-pound (5.4 million-euro, 7.3 million-
dollar) Georgian townhouse in up-market Connaught Square, west
London in 2004 at a discount of 300,000 pounds.


The townhouse is a Grade II listed building, meaning it is of
special interest, warranting every effort to preserve it,
according to English Heritage, which oversees historic sites,
thereby making it more difficult for renovations to be carried
out.


The Blairs also bought an 800,000-pound mews house behind the
four-storey townhouse, which they apparently plan to use for
either office or security space.


"Overall this is a very sensitive scheme which will actually
improve the properties ... it is almost reinstating the building
to how it was internally anyway," said planning committee
chairman Alastair Moss.

