

Experiments to reduce a key brain protein in mice could lead to
possible treatments for Alzheimer's disease, US researchers
reported in the journal Science.


The Gladstone Institute of Neurological Disease in San Francisco
has found that slashing the tau protein, which regulates the
internal brain skeleton, can prevent seizures, memory loss and
defects related to Alzheimer's disease.


The finding could lead to complementary treatments for the most
common form of dementia, researchers found.


"It appears that reducing tau has a protective effect on the
brain," said Lennart Mucke, director of the Gladstone Institute,
which led the study.


Researchers cut tau production in mice brains in half by
inactivating one gene that produces the protein. In other mice,
all tau production was eliminated by inactivating both genes.


Even in mice where tau production was reduced, mice genetically
engineered to develop Alzheimer's lived a normal lifespan and
retained their memory function.


Reducing tau levels also make the mice more resistant to
epileptic seizures.


Much of Alzheimer's research has focused on plaques that build up
in the brains of patients and are widely thought to cause the
brain-wasting disease.


But by reducing tau, these plaques did not have the same
destructive effects.


"Reduction of tau restricts the brain a little like a restriction
plate on a race car prevents the car from spiraling out of
control," Mucke said.


The findings could help lead to complementary treatments for
Alzheimer's. Preliminary drug trials have been successful in
reducing tau in cell cultures but no drug therapies exist that
target tau levels in humans.


An estimated 28 million people worldwide have dementia, of which
Alzheimer's is the most common form.

