

An oral vaccine has been developed that stops mice from getting
fatal brain diseases like mad cow disease, according to a paper
presented Thursday.


The vaccine prevents infection by prions, which are deadly
proteins that cause brain damage by altering normal cellular
prion proteins.


Because they so closely resemble normal prions, the immune system
does not fight them off and infected animals and people develop
dementia and abnormal limb movements as their brains are
irreparably damaged. There is currently no treatment or cure.


Researchers found a way to get the immune system to recognize and
then fight the infectious prions by attaching them to a
genetically-modified strain of Salmonella.


They found that the mice with high levels of antibodies in their
blood had no symptoms of the disease after 400 days while the
mice with low level of antibodies showed a significant delay in
the onset of the disease.


It normally takes 120 days for mice to develop prion disease.


"These are promising findings," said study author Thomas
Wisniewski of New York University's School of Medicine. "We are
now in the process of redesigning the vaccine so it can be used
on deer and cattle."


A great deal more work is needed before the vaccine can be used
on humans, Wisniewski.


But widespread vaccination of animals could protect people
because infected animals often do not show symptoms for months or
years and it is difficult to remove them all from the food chain.


"The human version of prion disease usually occurs spontaneously
and only rarely because of eating contaminated meat," he said.


"But if, for example, a more significant outbreak of chronic
wasting disease in deer and elk occurs and if it were
transmissible to humans, then we would need a vaccine like this
to protect people in hunting areas."


The paper was presented at the American Academy of Neurology's
59th Annual Meeting in Boston.

