

Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez threatened Thursday to
nationalize a major steel company and private banks unless they
make national interests a priority.


In a nationally televised speech, the leftist president said he
would nationalize steel maker Sidor if it continued to sell its
production abroad instead of selling it to domestic industries,
particularly in the oil sector.


He also announced plans for a law to force the private banking
sector to give priority to financing of domestic producers.


If the banks flout the law, he warned, "they should leave."


The outspoken champion of "socialism for the 21st century," the
leader of the world's fifth-largest oil exporter holds the power
to rule by decree for 18 months, granted in January by
parliament.


Chavez said that Sidor -- a steel maker that makes 60,000 tons of
tubes for the oil industry -- "had created a monopoly through its
relationships with other companies and they only supply the raw
material to these companies, leaving us to import these tubes
from China," he said.


"That is unacceptable. If the Sidor company, which was
privatized, does not accept from now on to change this way of
operating, then they will force me to nationalize it the same way
we did with CANTV," the state telecommunications firm.


On Monday Chavez announced he was withdrawing Venezuela from the
International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, calling them
"tools of imperialism" to exploit poor countries.


After his landslide re-election in December for another six-year
term, Chavez, who has been in power since 1999, has stepped up
state control of strategic sectors such as oil exploration,
electricity and telecommunications.

