

At least 17 people were killed on Monday when a blast ripped
through a coal mine in Siberia as emergency workers raced to
rescue more than 100 miners trapped underground, officials said.


An official from the emergency situations ministry told AFP the
revised death toll, up from the figure of nine given earlier by
officials in the Kemerovo regioh, where the accident happened.


Officials said that a total of 186 miners were underground at the
time of the blast, leaving more than 100 people still caught in
the mine several hours after the blast.


Three of those rescued after the methane gas explosion at the
Ulyanovskaya mine near the town of Novokuznetsk in the southwest
Siberian region of Kemerovo were injured, the spokesman said.


Twelve teams of specialist emergency workers are taking part in
the rescue operation and more are expected to arrive from the
regional centres of Kemerovo and Novokuznetsk.


Russian President Vladimir Putin has ordered Emergency Situations
Minister Sergei Shoigu to travel to the scene of the accident to
oversee the operation, Russian news agencies reported.


The coal industry in Kemerovo, located in southwest Siberia near
Russia's border with Mongolia, has suffered from chronic
underfunding since the collapse of the Soviet Union and there
have been several accidents in recent years.


Twenty-three miners were killed by a gas explosion in 2005 in
Kemerovo region and two separate mine blasts in the area in 2004
killed a total of 60 miners.


But a spokesman for the regional administration was quoted by
Interfax news agency as saying that the Ulyanovskaya mine was
only opened in 2002 and was equipped with modern technology.


The mine belongs to a company called Yuzhkuzbassugol, the
spokesman said.


Regional governor Aman Tuleyev was at the mine and had ordered an
inquiry into possible causes for the blast, the regional
administration spokesman was quoted as saying.

