

Poland's Prime Minister Jaroslaw Kaczynski on Monday slammed the
German government for failing to halt property claims by Germans
expelled at the end of World War II from newly-Polish territory.


"I must underline that in order to have genuinely normal
relations between Poland and Germany ... this issue must be
settled," Kaczynski told reporters, in the wake of a visit to
Poland by German Chancellor Angela Merkel.


Kaczynski bemoaned the fact that Merkel's position during her
visit "proved that there has been no progress on this issue."


Merkel's trip was aimed at patching up relations between Warsaw
and Berlin, which have seen the historic wound of the Nazi
occupation of Poland reopened since Poland's conservative twins
-- the premier and his brother President Lech Kaczynski -- came
to power.


In a speech at Warsaw University on Friday, Merkel said that
Berlin did not and would not support the Prussian Trust, a small
German association which filed 22 claims late last year at the
European Court of Human Rights seeking the restitution of
property that lies in present-day Poland.


Warsaw, however, has repeatedly called on the German government
to do more, notably by acting to prevent property lawsuits being
brought by individuals.


Kaczynski, who has launched a series of stinging verbal attacks
on Berlin about the issue, said Poland was pressing Germany "to
decide finally to make a clear declaration that these claims have
no basis in German and international law."


The claims stem from the redrawing of borders agreed by the
Soviet Union, Britain and the United States at the 1945 Potsdam
conference which saw large parts of eastern Germany awarded to
Poland, which in turn lost a swathe of its own eastern territory
to the Soviets.


Millions of Germans living in what is now northern and western
Poland were expelled, leaving behind property and land.

