

Twelve candidates are to run in next month's French presidential
election after gathering the 500 endorsements needed to qualify,
France's Constitutional Court announced Monday.


The 12 include right-wing favourite Nicolas Sarkozy, Socialist
Segolene Royal and centrist Francois Bayrou, as well as anti-
globalisation crusader Jose Bove, who was uncertain of qualifying
for the April 22 first round.


Far-right leader Jean-Marie Le Pen, who had accused political
rivals of pressuring mayors to withhold their sponsorships, also
qualified for the race, according to the council's president
Jean-Louis Debre.


On the left the other candidates are postman Olivier Besancenot
of the Revolutionary Communist League, Workers' Struggle
candidate Arlette Laguiller, Communist Party Marie-George Buffet,
small-town mayor Gerard Schivardi and the Green Party candidate
Dominique Voynet.


On the right, the fourth challenger is the nationalist Philippe
de Villiers of the Movement for France, while Frederic Nihous of
the Hunting, Fishing, Nature and Traditions party is standing on
a single-issue ticket.


The overall number is lower than in 2002, when 16 candidates
contested the first round, seen as one of the reasons for Le
Pen's shock presence in the second round run-off. The line-up
also includes four women, the highest share in any French
presidential election.


Under rules designed to weed out frivolous candidacies, would-be
contenders had until Friday to submit 500 endorsements from
mayors and other elected officials to the Constitutional Council,
the body that supervises the election.


The council worked through the weekend to establish the validity
of the sponsorships.


Bove, 53, who became a household name after he attacked a
McDonald's outlet in southern France in 1999 to protest "la
malbouffe" or bad food, had scraped in with 504 sponsorship forms
-- but was unsure whether all would be considered valid.

