

Italian Prime Minister Romano Prodi said Monday the time had come
to stop mourning the 2005 French and Dutch rejections of the EU
constitution and look to the future of the 27-nation bloc.


Europe "urgently needs new rules of functioning, to be put in
place if possible before the elections of 2009," Prodi told a
news conference unveiling a programme of events to mark the 50th
anniversary of the EU's founding Treaty of Rome at the weekend.


"We must launch a great movement that will leave behind these two
years of meditation and near-mourning that followed the French
and Dutch referendums," he said.


Events to mark 50 years since the signing of the treaty will be
"not only a celebration of the past but a contribution to the
future of the European Union, to give a strong impetus to the
process of European integration."


Prodi called for the drafting of a document that "will become the
point of reference for nearly half a billion citizens."


"We have a great responsibility for the future of the politics
and economy of the world. Europe should join the leaders of the
world economy in a lasting way," he said.


In addition to a full programme of conferences Saturday and
Sunday to mark the treaty's anniversary, Prodi said 27
masterpieces, one from each EU member state, would go on display
at the Quirinale Museum, and the original Treaty of Rome can be
seen at the Capitoline Museum.


On the day of the anniversary, Sunday, traffic will be closed on
the street that passes by the ancient Roman imperial forum for
performances by artists and musicians, to be followed by a
fireworks display in nearby Piazza Venezia.


Prodi was to meet in Rome later Monday with German Chancellor
Angela Merkel, whose country currenty holds the rotating EU
presidency.


Heads of state and government of the 27 EU member states will
gather in Berlin on Saturday and Sunday to mark the anniversary
and to adopt a "Berlin Declaration" setting out the way forward
for the EU.

