

Egyptian police have arrested a Palestinian man near the northern
Sinai town of El-Arish who was planning an anti-Israeli suicide
attack, a security official said on Monday.


Salah Adnan was a student at the El-Arish branch of Cairo's Al-
Azhar University and had been living in Egypt for nine months
when police arrested him at the end of last week, the official
said on condition of anonymity.


The 22-year-old suspect belonged to the Palestinian Islamist
movement Hamas and was headed to the Red Sea resort of Taba, the
official added. He planned to attack either an Israeli tourist
group or cross into Israel to blow himself up.


Security officials in the Sinai peninsula added that Adnan
confessed he had been sent by Hamas officials to Al-Arish to
enroll at the university, gain Egyptian residency, and then await
orders to carry out a suicide attack.


Adnan was arrested as he left an Al-Arish mosque following sunset
prayers and did not have any explosives on him, they added.


On January 29, a Palestinian blew himself up in the Israeli
resort town of Eilat, just across the border from Taba, killing
three people.


Security officials added that they also arrested on Monday nine
suspected members of the Egyptian militant group Gamaa Islamiya
in Al-Arish's Rafah and Sheikh Zuweid neighborhoods.


The Gamaa Islamiya was one of the groups responsible for a deadly
wave of attacks that rocked Egypt in the 1990s and has since
officially renounced violence.


A string of suicide bombings carried out against Egyptian resort
towns over the past three years are believed to have their
origins in the disaffected Bedouin communities around Al-Arish.


They were claimed by an organisation called Tawhid wal Jihad
(Unity and Holy War) with alleged links to the Al-Qaeda network.

