

Iran warned on Monday a new UN resolution against its disputed
nuclear programme will face a "proportionate" response and that
it was ready to pay the price for pursuing its atomic ambitions.


"Adopting new resolutions by the Security Council ... will face
Iran's proportionate response," Abbas Araghchi, deputy foreign
minister in legal and international affairs, said in a meeting
with foreign ambassadors.


"Iran is completely ready for both paths of cooperation and
confrontation and as there is a precedent for paying a price to
preserve its independence and rights, it is now ready to pay
these prices," he said.


The UN Security Council is set to meet this week for a vote on
new sanctions against Tehran for its repeated refusal to suspend
uranium enrichment, a process that can be used to make atomic
weapons as well as nuclear fuel.


Iran's hardline President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has said he will
participate in the council meeting to defend his country's
nuclear rights, even though he has previously slammed the UN body
as illegitimate.


As a signatory to the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, Iran says
it has the right to enrichment and insists its nuclear programme
is purely for peaceful purposes.


The West fears Iran could seek to develop nuclear weapons under
the guise of a civilian nuclear programme. Iran denies the
allegation.


On Wednesday the full council is to review a draft resolution
agreed by its five permanent members -- Britain, China, France,
Russia and the United States -- plus Germany.


The new text toughens sanctions already adopted by the council in
December against Iran's missile and nuclear programmes.

