

A Turkish court on Monday sentenced a senior Kurdish politician
to more than seven years in jail for collaborating with armed
Kurdish rebels, judicial officials said.


The court in Van, eastern Turkey, convicted Metin Tekce, mayor of
the mainly Kurdish city of Hakkari, on charges of "being a member
of a terrorist organisation" and "spreading the propaganda of an
illegal organisation," the sources said.


The ruling was referring to the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK),
listed as a terrorist group by Ankara over the bloody campaign
for self-rule it has waged in Turkey's predominantly Kurdish
southeast since 1984.


The case against Tekce was launched after he maintained that the
PKK was not a terrorist group before a parliamentary commission
investigating a shady bombing in Hakkari's Semdinli town in
November 2005.


He belongs to the country's main Kurdish political movement, the
Democratic Society Party, whose members have increasingly become
the target of judicial action for links to the PKK in recent
weeks.


Tekce was not present at Monday's hearing in Van and was said to
be abroad. He can appeal the sentence.


The PKK's campaign in the southeast and Ankara's heavy-handed
response have claimed more than 37,000 lives.


Under pressure from the European Union which it is seeking to
join, Turkey has in recent years broadened Kurdish cultural
freedoms. Kurdish activists, however, say the reforms are
inadequate and have called on Ankara for a general amnesty for
PKK militants to encourage them to end their armed struggle.

