

Italian journalist Daniele Mastrogiacomo, held hostage in
Afghanistan for two weeks, has been freed, Italian Prime Minister
Romano Prodi announced Monday.


Mastrogiacomo, 52, was admitted to a hospital in Lashkar Gah,
capital of southern Helmand province but is in good health, Prodi
said.


"I hope we can hold him in our arms very soon," the prime
minister said in an announcement carried live by the all-news
channel Sky TG 24.


Mastrogiacomo, a veteran correspondent for the left-leaning La
Repubblica daily, spoke to the Italian ambassador in Kabul,
Ettore Francesco Sequi, by telephone to confirm his release at
around 1400 GMT, a foreign ministry spokesman told AFP.


"I'm very happy, I thank you all. I knew you wouldn't abandon me,
and that gave me strength and courage," he said over La
Repubblica's online television station.


The association Peace Reporter said the veteran journalist was
dressed in Afghan garb and "is well and in great shape."


His first words as he hugged Gino Strada, founder of Emergency
humanitarian group that runs the Lashkar Gah hospital, were "I'm
fine," Peace Reporter said on its website.


Emergency was the go-between in negotiations for Mastrogiacomo's
release along with his driver and interpreter, whose fate was not
yet known Monday.


A Taliban commander threatened last week to kill Mastrogiacomo if
a series of demands were not met by Monday evening, notably the
release of three figures of the extremist group in Afghan
government custody.


A top security official told AFP the government had agreed to
free two Taliban in exchange for the correspondent and his
interpreter, captured on March 4 in Helmand, a Taliban
stronghold.


A Taliban spokesman told AFP Sunday that Mastrogiacomo and the
interpreter, Adjmal Nashkbandi, had been handed to tribal elders
pending a final deal for their release.


Mastrogiacomo begged for efforts for his release in a recorded
message obtained by the independent Pajhwok Afghan News on
Thursday.

