

The United States marked the fourth anniversary of the Iraq war
Monday, with a call for patience but wracked by pessimism and
political recriminations on the dragging, bloody conflict.


President George W. Bush was to make a short address from the
White House after speaking to Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-
Maliki, 48 months after ordering the "shock and awe" bombardment
which launched the US invasion.


The euphoria of that moment and the breakneck US advance on
Baghdad, contrasted Monday with a mood of gloom and political
division which have enveloped the US war effort and Bush's own
legacy.


But Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice pleaded with Americans
for more patience on a war which has killed 3,220 US troops, tens
of thousands of Iraqis and cost hundreds of billions of dollars.


"It will take some time for the violence to change," Rice told
NBC television.


"I would ask the American people to be patient. We have invested
a lot. It's worth the sacrifice and ultimately I believe that we
and the Iraqis together will prevail," she said.


White House spokesman Tony Snow said Bush would talk not only
about "the sacrifice and valor of troops" but also current
challenges in Iraq.


But a new poll on Monday showed already skeptical US public
opinion on Iraq had soured further, with only 32 percent of
Americans saying they favored the war, compared to 72 percent
just after it began.


Nearly half of those questioned in the survey by Opinion Research
Corp. for CNN said they strongly opposed the war. Four years ago
only one in five said they were strongly against it.


And despite recent claims by the Bush administration and top
generals that the month-old US surge of 21,500 extra troops into
Iraq was beginning to pacify some areas, another poll told a
story of Iraq skepticism.


Only 18 percent of those polled had confidence in US and
coalition troops, while 78 percent opposed their presence, 69
percent said their presence made security worse and 51 percent
said attacks on coalition forces were justified.


The poll, commissioned by the BBC, ABC News, ARD German TV and
USA contrasted with a similar survey two years ago when two-
thirds of Iraqis were more upbeat.


But in a British television interview Monday, Maliki insisted
sectarian killing had ended and blamed violence on Al-Qaeda,
which he called "the biggest threat" to Iraq.


Leaders of the Democratic majority in Congress were meanwhile
gathering for another week of bombarding Bush with political
attacks over the war.


By mid-week, the House of Representatives was due to debate
Bush's 124 billion dollar funding request for the wars in Iraq
and Afghanistan.


Democrats last week inserted a clause calling for the withdrawal
of US combat troops from Iraq by September 2008 at the latest,
but Bush has vowed to veto any such legislation if it makes it to
his desk.


"We think that is an approach that is conducive to defeat. It is
a recipe for failure, not for victory," Snow said on Monday.


Asked to describe a recipe for victory, Snow at one point grew
testy, telling a reporter pushing him on the issue to "zip it."
He later apologized and called that comment "inappropriate."


The Senate last week voted down a similar attempt by the
Democratic leadership intended to bring troops home by the end of
March next year.


In Iraq Monday, a string of coordinated car bombs and mortar
attacks killed 15 people and wounded dozens more in the
ethnically-volatile oil hub of Kirkuk.


Another eight people were killed in violence elsewhere.


In Washington, scene of mass anti-war protests two days ago,
which fanned across the country Sunday, Bush met his National
Security Council to discuss the war, before he was due to hold a
secure video conference with Maliki.


"At 11:30, (1530 GMT) the president will make a statement on the
fourth anniversary of the invasion of Iraq in the Roosevelt Room.
It will last about five minutes and he will take no questions,"
White House spokeswoman Dana Perino told AFP.


Anti-war demonstrators planned to hold at least a thousand
candlelight vigils around the United States.

