

Belgian Foreign Minister Karel de Gucht called on Monday for
direct negotiations between Israelis and Palestinians to keep the
situation in the region from getting any worse.


"It is absolutely necessary that we start serious negotiations,"
he said in Cairo at the start of a five-day regional tour. "The
situation has become more difficult in the Middle East and that
could have serious consequences."


Egyptian Foreign Minister Ahmed Abul Gheit applauded De Gucht's
plans to meet his new Palestinian counterpart Ziad Abu Amr during
his regional tour, although this was not confirmed by the Belgian
minister.


"Such a meeting would really be a welcome step on the part of the
Belgian side and we believe it will be an addition to ongoing
multilateral efforts to push the Palestinian peaceful settlement
process out of its current impasse," Abul Gheit said.


De Gucht is also due to visit the border between Egypt and the
Gaza Strip, as well as Israel, the Palestinian territories and
Lebanon.


The Belgian minister said the EU's top diplomats will be holding
an unofficial meeting on Saturday to discuss their position on
the Middle East.


The German presidency of the European Union said on Saturday it
was prepared to cooperate with the government if it adopted a
platform reflecting the Quartet principles.


The European Union is the main financial donor to the
Palestinians, and gave almost 700 million euros (900 million
dollars) last year, while keeping cash out of the hands of Hamas,
which figures on the terror lists of the EU and the United
States.

