

Latin American expatriates sent some 62 billion dollars to their
home countries last year, more than all of the combined direct
foreign investment and aid to the region, according to data
released Monday.


The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), whose board of
governors is meeting here Monday and Tuesday, said the
remittances by migrant workers from Latin America and the
Caribbean last year was 14 percent higher than for 2005.


And the predicted the figures will continue to rise: In 2007,
development experts expect expatriate remittances to Latin
America and the Caribbean to reach some 72 billion dollars, and
could exceed 100 billion dollars by 2010.


"Given present economic and demographic trends in Latin America
and the Caribbean and in industrialized countries, remittances
will continue to grow in volume over the next few years," said
Donald Terry, who heads up the IDB's Multilateral Investment
Fund, the arm of the bank which promotes small business
enterprise.


IDB officials said the migration, especially to North America,
Europe and Asia, has helped millions of families in Latin America
and the Caribbean escape poverty.


But the trend also underscores Latin America's inability to
generate enough well-paying employment to prevent millions of
workers from migrating overseas.


"The challenge for the countries in this region ... is to find
ways so these flows may have a greater development impact by
offering migrants and their families more options to get more out
of their money," Terry said.

