

China's highest court has approved four death sentences in its
first rulings since being handed the power of final approval on
capital punishment earlier this year, state press said Monday.


Under new rules implemented on January 1, the Supreme People's
Court must review all capital punishment cases handed down by
provincial courts in an effort to bring greater justice to those
sentenced to death.


Since then, the high court has upheld death sentences for four
criminals convicted of violent crimes, including Yu Maoge, who
killed a taxi driver in Shanghai in November 2005 and Zhao
Guiyong, who kidnapped and killed a 10-year- old boy in June
2006, Xinhua news agency said.


Also sentenced to die was Liu Shilin, convicted of rape and
murder, and Li Shumu, a convicted murderer and arsonist, it said.


"If the the supreme court approves the death penalty, they will
be executed within seven days of local courts receiving the
notice of the supreme court," the report said.


No dates were given on when the high court rulings were handed
down, nor was it clear if any of the convicts had been executed.


China executes more criminals every year than the rest of the
world combined, London-based Amnesty International has said.


Although the new regulation on high court approval was seen as a
response to growing international concern over China's use of the
death penalty, Beijing still considers the numbers of people it
puts to death a state secret and refuses to publicise the figure.


Amnesty International said at least 1,770 people were known to
have been executed and 3,900 people sentenced to death during
2005, based on public reports on individual cases.


Human rights groups and Chinese academics believe the real number
of people executed annually could be as high as 10,000 to 20,000.

