

UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon said Monday that Sudanese
President Omar al- Beshir must accept his proposals to augment
the Darfur peacekeeping force, as he sent a new negotiating
mission to Khartoum.


"I regret that President Beshir has made numerous and dangerous
objections to the proposals I jointly made with the presidency of
the African Union," Ban said in an interview with the Egyptian
government daily Al-Akhbar.


"I believe that President Beshir and the Sudanese government must
accept these proposals providing for the deployment of a joint
peacekeeping force involving elements of the African Union backed
by an international force," he was quoted as saying in the
Arabic-language paper.


In a recent letter to Ban, Beshir rejected the deployment of some
2,300 UN blue helmets as part of a phased creation of a "hybrid"
UN-AU force to stabilise the war torn Darfur region.


"I have decided to once more send my special envoy Jan Eliasson
and ask UA envoy Salim Ahmed Salim (to accompany him) to
negotiate with the government, he said.


"Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo will soon be heading to
Khartoum to discuss the same matter," Ban said in another
interview on Monday with the pan- Arab daily Al-Hayat.


In February, Eliasson and Salim went to Sudan and met with Beshir
and Darfur rebel leaders.


Efforts to crush the rebellion, which erupted in 2003, have left
200,000 dead and more than two million displaced which an under-
equipped 7,000-strong AU force deployed in 2004 has been unable
to end.


In August, a UN security council resolution has called for the
gradual deployment of a joint UN-AU force of 20,000.


The UN Security Council is to hold consultations on Sudan later
Monday.

