

Internet providers cut access to the web and shop owners in
Nepal's capital called for indefinite closures Monday after
Maoist cadres abducted and beat up a hotel owner, business
leaders said.


"We have decided to call for the closure all shops and business
operations nationwide for an indefinite period unless the
government gives us security assurances," Chandiraj Dhakal, the
president of the Nepal Chamber of Commerce and Industry, told
AFP.


Sampurna Manandhar, a technician from Worldlink -- one of Nepal's
major Internet providers -- said Internet access was cut "for one
hour in protest against recent attacks by the Maoists on business
entrepreneurs."


The Maoists have been accused of continuing to use intimidation,
extortion and violence since last year, when they agreed to end
their decade-long insurgency, renounce violence and enter
government.


Hotel owner Harilal Shrestha told reporters that Maoist members
forcibly took him from his hotel on Kathmandu's swankiest
shopping street on Sunday after he refused to pay them cash and
offer them free rooms.


"The Maoists demanded 10 million rupees (140,000 dollars) and 10
rooms. When I said I could not meet those demands they abducted
me and severely beat me," Shrestha told reporters.


With a black eye and swollen lips, Shrestha told reporters Monday
that the Maoist cadres blindfolded him and tied him to a chair
during the attack.


"I was scolded with hot water and many people beat and kicked
me," Shrestha said.


About 200 protesters from the business community rallied in the
city centre, and all of the businesses on Durbar Marg were closed
Monday afternoon.


"Despite repeated appeals, the Maoists have continued attacks on
business entrepreneurs so we want this to stop immediately. We
want to do business without fear," said Dhakal, the president of
Nepal's chamber of commerce.

