

Holocaust survivors whose properties in Poland were seized during
World War II joined forces Monday with Poles who lost their
property to communist nationalisation to demand a law on
compensation.


"Poland is the only country apart from Belarus where this issue
has never been settled," said Jehuda Evron, chairman of the US-
based Holocaust Restitution Committee.


"We demand that a law is passed quickly to allow former property
owners to recover their real estate, where possible, and where it
is not, that they are compensated," Miroslaw Szypowski said at a
meeting of the National Association of Former Property Owners,
which he heads.


Polish lawmakers must act fast so that elderly victims of
expropriation "at the end of their lives should have a feeling
that justice has been done," Evron said at the meeting.


Jewish and non-Jewish groups have joined forces to step up the
pressure as Poland's parliament make its 17th attempt to come up
with legislation to settle the issue.


A draft bill currently before parliament, which would pay
15-percent compensation to former owners and their heirs has
drawn criticism from both groups.


"The government hasn't consulted us. It's as if we don't exist,"
said Szypowski of the 250,000-member Polish property-owners'
association.


Last month, Polish Prime Minister Jaroslaw Kaczynski told a
delegation of Jewish campaigners that his government would do its
utmost to ensure parliament passed a compensation law by the end
of the year.


The value of seized property for which compensation is being
sought is estimated at 16-18 billion euros (21.3-23.9 billion
dollars), according to the owners' association headed by
Szypowski.


Jewish property was seized by Nazi Germany after the invasion of
Poland in 1939 which sparked World War II.


After the war, Poland's new Soviet-inspired communist government
expropriated property from non-Jewish Poles and from the few Jews
who had survived the Holocaust, and nationalised it.

