

Japan's Defence Minister Fumio Kyuma, who caused a stir when he
criticised the US invasion of Iraq, plans a visit to the war-torn
country, a report said Monday.


Kyuma will visit in late April or early May, making him only the
second Japanese cabinet member to visit Iraq since the invasion,
Jiji Press said.


Japan last year ended its historic deployment of 600 troops on a
reconstruction mission to Iraq -- the first time since World War
II that Tokyo had sent soldiers to a country where fighting was
underway.


But Japan continues to station some 210 air force personnel in
Kuwait to fly people and supplies into Iraq on behalf of the US-
led coalition and the United Nations.


Tokyo is expected to extend the air mission by two years when it
expires at the end of July, but Kyuma wants to inspect the
conditions himself, Jiji Press said. Immediate confirmation was
not available.


Kyuma caused a stir earlier this year when he said the United
States was "wrong" to invade Iraq. US Vice President Dick Cheney
did not meet Kyuma on a visit to Japan last month.


Kyuma will meet with Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki, who in
turn has been reported to be planning a visit to Japan next
month, Jiji said.


The only other Japanese cabinet member to visit Iraq since the
war started was Foreign Minister Taro Aso, in August last year.


Kyuma became Japan's first defence minister since World War II
earlier this year when the government upgraded the former Defence
Agency into a full-fledged ministry.


Previous Defence Agency chiefs visited Iraq but did not have
cabinet-level responsibility.

