

US aviation giant Boeing Co. said Monday it welcomed a new
challenge planned by China in the market for big passenger
planes.


"We always anticipate potential competitors. I don't think it's a
surprise to anybody that a country as large as China might have
ambitions like that," added Mike Bair, head of Boeing's 787
"Dreamliner" program.


"What we have to do is to constantly improve what we're doing"
and keep up with customer demand, he said on a conference call
about the new plane, which remains on target for a May 2008
delivery.


China announced it had approved a plan to build large passenger
aircraft which analysts said could take on Boeing and European
company Airbus, not just at home but eventually on the world
market.


The State Council, or Cabinet, made the decision at a meeting
presided over by Premier Wen Jiabao after listening to details of
a feasibility study on the project, the government said in a
statement posted on its website.


The plan is to "design and build airplanes that can carry more
than 150 passengers and compete with Airbus and Boeing," the
state-run China Daily said in a report.


Boeing and Airbus are locked in battle for a piece of the fast-
growing Chinese aviation market. Airbus estimates China will need
2,650 passenger planes from 2006 to 2025.


Based on the kind of smaller planes China is building now, Boeing
said the country was likely to venture into a 737-class medium-
haul aircraft as "the next logical step" for its aviation
development.


"Competition tends to make us all better and we'll face the world
as it develops," said Scott Carson, head of Boeing's commercial
airplanes division.


China's announcement coincided with the first flight to the
United States by the double-decker 555-seat Airbus A380
superjumbo, the world's biggest passenger plane.

