

Kenyan security forces on Monday boosted security in this coastal
city as foreign athletes arrived for the weekend's world cross
country championships, officials said.


As Australian and New Zealand teams jetted in for the Saturday
event to be welcomed by Kenyan officials, armed officers from
General Service Unit -- the paramilitary wing of the Kenyan
police -- surrounded Mombasa airport.


The athletes were escorted to their hotel by a heavy GSU convoy,
an AFP correspondent reported.


"I am actually surprised with all this," said New Zealand team
manager Rosemary Wright, reacting to the heavy security presence.


"This shows how much Kenya is valuing the security of the
athletes. It is one of the best I have ever seen," she added.


The New Zealand team -- three women and two men -- were earlier
reported to have been apprehensive about coming to Kenya in the
wake of travel warnings.


The US embassy in Nairobi said earlier this month that alleged
extremist elements may be plotting an attack during event, but
gave no details of the potential threat.


In addition, furious Muslims have vowed to disrupt the event with
demonstrations to protest the government's failure to secure the
release of dozens of youths arrested during anti-terror swoops in
Kenya and Somalia.


Nairobi has rejected flak over the arrests and vowed to crackdown
on troublemakers.


The Russian and Romanian teams arrived late Sunday for the
athletics championship to be held at Mombasa's sprawling golf
club course.


The United States team and the president of the International
Association of Athletics Federation (IAAF) Lamine Diack were
expected late Monday.

