

Severe floods and avalanches left at least 17 people dead in
western Afghanistan, officials said Monday, as NATO choppers
evacuated hundreds of villagers from flooded regions in the
country's south.


An avalanche on Sunday buried several houses in the town of
Chaghcharan, capital of the western province of Ghor, and killed
at least 12 people, the deputy provincial governor, Kiramudin
Rezazada, told AFP.


"Thirteen other people were wounded some houses were destroyed,"
he said.


In neighbouring Badghis province, floods on Sunday killed five
people and thousands of livestock, provincial police chief
Mohammad Ayob said.


The water washed away 850 houses and flooded hundreds of acres
(hectares) of farmland.


In the south of the country, Dutch troops were using four
helicopters to lift close to 1,000 people from flooded parts of
Uruzgan province to higher ground, NATO's International Security
Assistance Force said.


Some villages in the province's Deh Rahwood district were
underwater and up to 500 houses were destroyed along a
20-kilometre (12-mile) stretch of the Helmand river, spokesman
Colonel Tom Collins told reporters.


"There are reports of people who are on top of their houses and
the water is rising around them ... we are going to do everything
to evacuate them," he said.


About 250 ISAF ground forces were providing emergency relief aid,
including medical assistance.


Gunmen believed to be from the Taliban fired a rocket-propelled
grenade at troops in the district but caused no casualties, an
ISAF spokeswoman said.


"Thousands of people have been affected by the floods but so far
we have no reports of casualties," said Abdul Qayoom Qayoomi, a
spokesman for the Uruzgan governor said.


Helmand province further down the river was also affected, with
several hundred houses damaged or destroyed and livestock drowned
in the Gereshk area, said the area police chief, named
Habibullah.

