

Americans appear to be falling for the accent rather than the
ability of British actors who keep winning US film and television
awards, a leading British comedian and actor argued Monday.


Writing in the listings magazine Radio Times, Stephen Fry made
what he admitted were treacherous remarks after seeing a "blitz
of Brits" including Helen Mirren, Jeremy Irons and Hugh Laurie
take top prizes at this year's Golden Globes.


Mirren also won this year's best actress Oscar for her role in
"The Queen".


Fry, best known to film fans for playing Oscar Wilde in the 1997
biopic "Wilde," used to perform in a comedy duo with Laurie, now
one of the biggest stars on US television thanks to his role in
"House".


"I shouldn't be saying this -- high treason really -- but I
sometimes wonder if Americans aren't fooled by our accent into
detecting a brilliance that may not really be there," Fry wrote.


"I mean, would they notice if Jeremy Irons or Judi Dench gave a
bad performance? Not that those two paragons ever would, but it's
worth considering."


Dench won the best supporting actress Oscar in 1999 for her
eight-minute appearance in "Shakespeare In Love," and had five
further nominations, plus two Golden Globe wins.


Irons has two Golden Globes, two Emmys and a best actor Oscar in
1991 for "Reversal of Fortune."


Fry said US actors were more natural in front of the camera than
their British counterparts.


"I've always believed Americans have one huge, ready-made gift
when it comes to acting in front of a camera: the ability to
relax," he wrote.


He spoke of "the supreme relaxed authenticity of a James Stewart
or a George Clooney compared with the brittle contrivances of a
Laurence Olivier or a Kenneth Branagh, marvellous as they are."

