

The former editor of a Chinese website was jailed for six years
for posting articles calling for the government to be overthrown,
state press reported Tuesday


Zhang Jianhong of the www.aiqinhai.org Chinese-language site was
convicted of subversion and sentenced by a court in Ningbo city,
eastern China's Zhejiang province, Xinhua news agency reported.


He had earlier served one-and-a-half years in a labour camp for
his role in the 1989 Tiananmen democracy protests, the Paris-
based Reporters Without Borders has said.


"The court found that Zhang ... had published over 110 articles
under the pseudonym 'Li Hong' on overseas websites from May to
September 2006," the Xinhua report said, citing a court
statement.


"In more than 60 articles, Zhang had slandered the government and
China's social system to vent his discontent with the
government."


Zhang posted the articles after the government shut down his
website in March 2006 and punished him for earlier "illegal
practices," it said, without elaborating.


Zhang, 48, was arrested in September last year, after he posted
articles demanding the release of other jailed political
dissidents, the Paris-based Reporters Without Borders said
earlier.


Zhang is a member of China's Pen Society, an international
literary circle. He has written articles condemning arrests of
activists, the illegal organ trade and the closure of an Internet
website for writers and poets.


He had previously been a regular contributor to overseas Chinese-
lanaguage websites.

