

The giant Airbus A380 superjumbo landed on US soil for the first
time Monday, with crowds turning out to witness the arrivals of
the world's biggest passenger plane in New York and Los Angeles.


The 555-seat double-decker behemoth, which has a wingspan the
size of a football pitch, descended smoothly through grey,
overcast skies to touch down at Los Angeles International Airport
at approximately 9:28 am (1628 GMT).


A few minutes earlier, another Airbus A380 flying from Frankfurt
landed at New York's Kennedy Airport.


The arrival of the A380 in Los Angeles was greeted with cheers by
several hundred spectators gathered inside the airport for a
welcoming ceremony and was accompanied by fanfare from a brass
band as four helicopters buzzed overhead.


Authorities said thousands of aviation enthusiasts were expected
to take up vantage points around the airport to catch a glimpse
of the aircraft.


While in Los Angeles the plane will undergo tests of its airport
maneuverability and terminal parking capability.


Los Angeles World Airports, the agency that manages LAX, has
spent more than 49 million dollars on a variety of projects to
accommodate the A380 and will spend another 72 million dollars in
coming years.


Improvements are being made to runways, taxiways and boarding
gates to accommodate the aircraft, which weighs 562 tons and has
a wingspan of more than 261 feet (80 meters). The plane is
capable of carrying more than 800 passengers in an all economy-
class configuration, and 555 in a standard three class set-up.


The flight is being conducted in conjunction with Qantas Airways
of Australia, which has ordered 12 A380s and may buy eight more.

