

An Israeli electricity worker was shot and wounded by Palestinian
gunfire at the Karni crossing between Israel and the Gaza Strip
on Monday in an attack claimed by the armed wing of Hamas.


The civilian employee of an electricity company was shot as he
repaired a high voltage line near the crossing, the army said.


In a statement in Gaza, the armed wing of the Islamist movement
Hamas, the majority party in the governing Palestinian coalition,
claimed responsibility for the shooting "against a Zionist
usurper".


Israeli government spokeswoman Miri Eisin condemned the Hamas
attack and linked the shooting directly to the new Palestinian
government, which Israel has called on the international
community to continue to boycott.


"On Saturday ,the Palestinians declared a new government. On
Monday, we can see that Haniya's statements supporting terror
were expressed today in an act of terror against Israel from Gaza
by Hamas," she told reporters.


"Israel hopes that world pays attention to the head of the PA
(Palestinian Authority) government and Hamas chief Ismail Haniya
and acts of terror."


The Karni crossing, the main crossing point for goods between
Israel and the Gaza Strip, has been largely closed since a Gaza-
based militants, including members of Hamas's armed wing, seized
an Israeli soldier last June.


The European Union, Russia, the United Nations and the United
States have conditioned the end of an aid embargo on the
Palestinian government recognising Israel, accepting past peace
deals and renouncing violence.

