

Two prominent Iranian women's rights activists detained for
demonstrating outside a Tehran court were released on Monday on
bail of more than 200,000 dollars, their lawyers said.


"Shadi Sadr and Mahboubeh Abbas Gholizadeh were released today on
bail," Farideh Gheyrat told AFP of the two, who were arrested
with 31 other activists on March 4 for demonstrating outside a
revolutionary court.


Sadr and Abbas Gholizadeh were released on two-billion-rial
(215,000 dollar) and 2.5 billion rial (269,000 dollar) bails,
respectively, Gheyrat said.


The two were given a one-month temporary detention order for
charges undisclosed to their lawyer, in addition to the
accusations of disturbing public order faced by all those
detained.


Within a few days of the arrests, Iranian authorities freed all
the other women who gathered to show solidarity with five
feminists on trial for organising a protest last year against
Iran's "discriminatory" laws for women.


Sadr is known both in Iran and abroad for her work defending
women faced with death sentences for killing potential rapists as
well as for campaigning against stoning as a method of capital
punishment.


Abbas Gholizadeh is a leading journalist and women's rights
activist who spent a month in jail in 2004 in a crackdown on
cyber journalists and reformist webloggers.


Women's rights activists in Iran have over the past year been
protesting against articles in Iranian law which are seen as
discriminating against women.


The activists on trial have also been involved in a petition
campaign dubbed "One Million Signatures" which seeks to change
Iran's "unfair" laws against women by collecting signatures,
either online or in person.

