

Israel is not engaged in substantial peace talks with the
Palestinians, although it will continue to discuss humanitarian
and security issues, the government spokeswoman said on Monday.


"There are no real substantial discussions being done right now
between the Palestinian president (Mahmud Abbas) and the Israeli
prime minister (Ehud Olmert) or between officials," Miri Eisin
told reporters.


Her comments came two days after the swearing-in of a Palestinian
unity government uniting president Mahmud Abbas's moderate Fatah
party and radical Islamist movement Hamas.


"If there is more stability and it is quieter, as it continues to
be, we will be able to move forward," Eisin said.


But Israel made plain on Sunday that it would continue to have no
dealings with the new government following a boycott of the
Palestinian cabinet since Islamist group Hamas took power in
March last year.


Israel has nevertheless maintained contacts with Abbas, whom
Olmert has met several times.


"Israel will continue to work with Mahmud Abbas in order to
advance issues on security and issues pertaining to improving the
quality of living of the Palestinian people," Olmert's cabinet
said in a statement on Sunday.


Palestinian sources have spoken of parallel talks through a
"secret channel" involving Israeli Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni
and Palestinian moderates.


An Israeli foreign ministry official told AFP last week that
"secret contacts" were under way with the Palestinians, but
denied they were being used as a separate channel for
negotiations.


There has been no progress in peace talks between Israel and the
Palestinians since negotiations broke down in January 2001.

