

Japan coach Ivica Osim on Monday called up Celtic's Shunsuke
Nakamura for the first time but axed a host of regulars including
three Europe-based stars for this weekend's friendly with Peru.


Osim said he was showing the "yellow card" to Feyenoord
midfielder Shinji Ono, Basel's Koji Nakata, and the Brazilian-
born Alessandro "Alex" Santos for poor recent performances.


J-League players Seiichiro Maki, Hisato Sato and Yasuyuki Konno
were also left out of the initial 18-man squad while Eintracht
Frankfurt striker Naohiro Takahara earned a first call-up under
the Bosnian.


"For those who were dropped this time, it's a yellow card to
their play in recent games. I've been watching their games. I
hope they will come back after showing good performances," Osim
said.


"I'm going to add a few more players to the 18 men after Thursday
depending on injuries or fitness," he added.


Nakamura has been widely praised for his performances with
Scottish league- leaders Celtic, while Takahara recently scored
his 10th goal in Europe.


"It is the best time to call them up," Osim said.


The match kicks off at 7:30 pm (10:30 GMT) on Saturday at
Yokohama.


Squad:


Goalkeepers: Yoshikatsu Kawaguchi (Jubilo Iwata), Eiji Kawashima
(Kawasaki Frontale), Shusaku Nishikawa (Oita Trinita)


Defenders: Yuji Nakazawa (Yokohama Marinos), Keisuke Tsuboi
(Urawa), Tulio Marcus Tanaka (Urawa), Yuki Abe (Urawa)


Midfielders: Shunsuke Nakamura (SCO/Celtic), Hideo Hashimoto
(Gamba Osaka), Naotake Hanyu (JEF United Chiba), Akira Kaji
(Osaka), Yasuhito Endo (Osaka), Takahiro Futagawa (Osaka), Kengo
Nakamura (Kawasaki), Keita Suzuki (Urawa), Yuichi Komano
(Sanfrecce Hiroshima), Jungo Fujimoto (Shimizu S-Pulse)


Forwards: Naohiro Takahara (GER/Frankfurt)

