

PetroChina, the nation's largest oil producer, reported lower
than expected profits for 2006, with net profit up only 6.6
percent despite high prices of crude oil.


PetroChina reported a 2006 net profit of 142.22 billion yuan
(18.23 billion US), up from 133.36 billion yuan a year earlier,
but well short of the 152.4 billion yuan profit estimated by
analysts polled by Thomson Financial.


The company said revenue rose 25 percent to 688.98 billion yuan.


"This was primarily due to increases in the selling prices and
sales volume of major products including crude oil, natural gas
and certain refined products," the company said.


Larry Grace, an analyst at Kim Eng Securities, blamed the lower-
than-estimated profit on the company's strategy to focus its
production on gas.


"It is an oil company, but instead they focus on gas because they
have to obey Beijing's policy to increase the use of gas as an
energy source," he said.


"They put more money towards the gas, which is difficult to get
and very costly," he added.


Output of crude oil and natural gas for 2006 totaled 1.06 billion
barrels of oil equivalent (BOE), up 4.9 percent from 2005.


Revenue last year from all business segments, including
exploration and production, recorded double-digit growth, with
natural gas and pipeline operations posting the highest rate of
48.5 percent to 26.2 billion yuan.


PetroChina said it expected its capital expenditure to reach
185.7 billion yuan for 2007, up from 148.7 billion recorded in
2006.


At a media briefing, chief financial officer Wang Guoliang said
capex growth was due mainly to higher investment in the
exploration and production segment, higher expenses relating to
safety and environmental safeguards, staff bonuses and higher
costs stemming from the appreciation of the yuan.


He said the Chinese government had rigidly implemented national
laws and regulations regarding safety and environment protection,
as well as energy saving measures.


The company had thus budgeted 30 billion yuan during 2006-2008
towards meeting those stipulations.


The company had spent about 13 billion yuan in 2006 of the
budgeted 30 billion yuan, he said.


PetroChina expects to carry out oil and gas exploration at a
total of eight basins this year, including the Bohai Bay, Erdos
and Sichuan fields.


It said it also planned to diversify resources and pursue "large
scale exploration of coalbed gas, develop biomass energy and
other new forms of energy."


PetroChina expects its oil and gas output this year to reach 1.12
billion BOE, representing growth of 5.66 percent from a year
earlier.


Crude oil output target is 838.5 million barrels this year, up
from 830.7 million in 2006, while the natural gas output target
is 1,664.6 billion cubic feet, against 1,371.9 billion.


Wang said global crude oil prices were likely to be lower this
year compared to 2006, although prices would still be high.


The company's average realised crude oil price in 2006 was 59.81
dollars per barrel, up 23.7 percent from a year earlier.


PetroChina expects its oil and gas output this year to reach 1.12
billion BOE, representing growth of 5.66 percent from a year
earlier.


Crude oil output target is 838.5 million barrels this year, up
from 830.7 million in 2006, while natural gas output target is
1,664.6 billion cubic feet, against 1,371.9 billion.

