

The bombs used in the 2004 Madrid train blasts and widely blamed
on Islamic extremists were not the kind used by armed Basque
group ETA, a police expert told the trial of 29 accused on
Monday.


"The device was totally different to those we had previously
seen. It was not like the type of bombs used by other, home
grown, terrorist groups," the expert said in allusion to ETA,
initially blamed by the then conservative government as being
behind the coordinated attacks on four packed trains.


The expert, who defused one of three bombs used that failed to go
off in Spain's worst terrorist attack which killed 191 people,
gave evidence anonymously as the trial went into a sixth week.


According to the expert, the devices were of a kind previously
used "by Middle East terrorist groups."


He added the 10-kilo (22 pounds) devices of Goma 2 Eco dynamite
to which were strapped mobile telephones were "simple but
ingenious" and able to be set off by remote control.


A short circuit ensured the three bombs that did not explode
malfunctioned.


The telephone discovered in a bag containing one of the devices
allowed investigators to trace Moroccan suspected bomber Jamal
Zougam, as they established that the SIM cards used were bought
at the phone shop where he worked.


Zougam, who faces a jail term of some 40,000 years if found
guilty, insists he is innocent, as have his fellow accused.


Former conservative prime minister Jose Maria Aznar and his
government insisted in the immediate aftermath of the blasts that
ETA was responsible but evidence soon emerged fingering mainly
Moroccan extremists angry at Aznar's support for the US-led
invasion of Iraq.


Three days after the bombings the Socialist Party scored a
surprise general election win and swiftly pulled Spanish troops
out of Iraq.


The trial is set to last until July with verdicts expected in
October.

