

Experts from the UN nuclear watchdog are set to visit Tuesday the
proposed site for an international center for enriching uranium
in Siberia, Russian officials said Monday.


The delegation from the International Atomic Energy Agency "will
study the level of preparation... for opening such a center and
will verify that all IAEA requirements have been met," said
Russian First Deputy Prime Minister Sergei Ivanov.


The creation of an uranium enrichment center in a chemical
factory in the Irkutsk region not far from Lake Baikal will be
"the first concrete step towards realizing the president's
initiative for creating the global infrastructure for
international centers of uranium enrichment," Ivanov said.


Russian President Vladimir Putin last year called for the
creation of a network of internationally-controlled enrichment
centers and facilities for treating nuclear fuel in order to make
nuclear energy available to developing countries without sparking
nuclear weapons proliferation.


The first country to sign on to the project was Kazakhstan.


The United States gave a cautious welcome to the proposed center
when it was announced in October. The State Department said at
the time that it would expect the enriched uranium to be "only
supplied to countries which have undertaken the appropriate
nonproliferation commitments."


Enriched uranium can be used for nuclear fuel but also for
building weapons and has been at the core of the crisis over
Iran's nuclear programme. Tehran has refused the UN Security
Council's demand to halt its uranium enrichment activities.


The Western powers fear Iran is secretly developing a nuclear
weapon, while Tehran maintains its programme is for peaceful
purposes to generate nuclear energy.


The center in south Siberia, with co-financing from Kazakhstan,
could begin producing enriched uranium this year, according to
Sergei Kirienko, head of the Russian federal atomic energy agency
Rosatom.

