

Hong Kong's top English-language newspaper Monday announced the
resignation of its editor-in-chief who courted controversy last
year by sacking two journalists over a newsroom joke.


Mark Clifford was leaving the South China Morning Post "to pursue
another opportunity" at the non-profit Asia Business Council,
said a statement issued by the daily.


"Mark played a key role in changes that have both strengthened
and improved the editorial operations," chairman Kuok Khoon Ean
was quoted as saying.


Current editor C.K. Lau will assume responsibility for editorial
operations after Clifford leaves on April 1, the statement said.


A third of the paper's editorial staff expressed anger at the
sackings in November for what management called a "violation of
work ethics."


The two lost their jobs over a mock front-page prepared for a
departing colleague featuring humorous stories and coarse
language.


More than 100 of the paper's journalists demanded their
reinstatement in a case which drew coverage from both local and
international press.


An employee who wished to remain anonymous believed Clifford's
resignation was linked to the staff's demand.


"It's definitely related to the petition. There's been a constant
stream of people resigning because of the way he's been sacking
people," the employee said, adding morale was low among workers.


However, the newspaper denied Clifford's resignation was linked
to the incident.


"It's not related to that. The management and the board
appreciate what he's done for the short time he's been here,"
said a spokeswoman.


The 103-year-old newspaper is a pillar of Hong Kong's
establishment and one of the oldest newspapers in Asia.

